Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Under these circumstances, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity and stock price materially and adversely. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Changes to third party reimbursement policies and practices can negatively impact our ability to sell our products at prices necessary to expand our operations and increase profitability. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to changes in policies and practices, such as more restrictive criteria to qualify for surgery or reduction in payment amount to hospitals and surgeons for approved surgery, both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers may adversely affect the demand for our existing products or our products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. 17 Table of Contents To the extent we sell our products internationally, market acceptance may depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. In international markets, reimbursement and healthcare payment systems vary significantly by country and many countries have instituted price ceilings on specific product lines. There can be no assurance that third-party payers’ reimbursement policies and practices will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Non-coverage decisions concerning our technologies by third-party payers may negatively impact our ability to sell our complete product portfolio, expand our operations and increase profitability. Sales of our products will depend on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party payers. Healthcare providers, such as hospitals that purchase medical devices for treatment of their patients, generally rely on third-party payers to reimburse all or part of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed with these devices. Likewise, spine surgeons rely primarily on third-party reimbursement for the surgical fees they earn. Spine surgeons are unlikely to use our products if they do not receive reimbursement adequate to cover the cost of their involvement in the surgical procedures. Certain third-party payers have stated non-coverage decisions concerning our technologies and implementation of such policies could significantly alter our ability to sell our products. For example, several smaller regional third party payers, such as Blue Cross Blue Shield of Florida and Medica of Minnesota, continue to have reimbursement policies that label XLIF surgeries as experimental. Additional payers may also state that our technologies are not covered. The inability to successfully market our technologies due to lack of reimbursement coverage may adversely impact our ability to acquire new physician clients, increase market penetration with existing clients, or retain existing clients across NuVasive product lines and, therefore, may adversely impact our ability to sell our complete product portfolio, expand our operations and increase profitability. Pricing pressure from our competitors may impact our ability to sell our products at prices necessary to expand our operations, invest in innovative technologies and increase profitability. The market for spine surgery products is large and growing at a significant rate. This has attracted numerous new companies and technologies, and encouraged more established companies to intensify competitive pressure. New entrants to our markets include numerous niche companies with singular product focus, as well as companies owned partially by spine surgeons, who have significant market knowledge and access to the surgeons who use our products. As a result of this increased competition, we believe there will be continued pricing pressure. If competitive forces drive down the price we are able to charge for some of our products, and we are not able to counter that pressure as we have historically with the rapid introduction of new offerings, our profit margins will shrink, which will hamper our ability to generate profits and cash flow, and, as a result, to invest in and grow our business, including the investment into new and innovative technologies. We are in a highly competitive market segment and face competition from large, well-established medical device manufacturers as well as new market entrants. The market for spine surgery products and procedures is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. With respect to our nerve monitoring systems, we compete with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc., and VIASYS Healthcare, a division of CareFusion, both of which have significantly greater resources than we do, as well as numerous regional nerve monitoring companies. With respect to MaXcess, our minimally disruptive surgical system, our largest competitors are Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc., DePuy Spine, Inc., a Johnson & Johnson company, and Synthes, Inc. We compete with many of the same companies with respect to our other products. We also compete with numerous smaller companies with respect to our implant products, many of whom have a significant regional market presence. At any time, these companies may develop alternative treatments, products or procedures for the treatment of spine disorders that compete directly or indirectly with our products. 18 Table of Contents Many of our larger competitors are either publicly traded or divisions or subsidiaries of publicly traded companies, and enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including: • significantly greater name recognition; • established relations with a greater number of spine surgeons, hospitals, other healthcare providers and third-party payers; • larger and more well established distribution networks with significant international presence; • products supported by long-term clinical data; • greater experience in obtaining and maintaining U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory approvals or clearances for products and product enhancements; • more expansive portfolios of intellectual property rights; and • greater financial and other resources for product research and development, sales and marketing and litigation. In addition, the spine industry is becoming increasingly crowded with new market entrants, including companies owned at least partially by spine surgeons. Many of these new competitors focus on a specific product or market segment, making it more difficult for us to expand our overall market position. If these companies become successful, we expect that competition will become even more intense, leading to greater pricing pressure and making it more difficult for us to expand. Our future success depends on our strategy of obsoleting our own products and our ability to timely acquire, develop and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market. We have the objective of staying ahead of the spine market by obsoleting our own products with new products and enhancements. It is important to our business that we continue to build upon our product offering to surgeons and hospitals, and enhance the products we currently offer. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to acquire, develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products to keep pace with the rapidly changing spine market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully acquire, develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market new products or that any of our future products or enhancements will be accepted by the surgeons who use our products or the payers who financially support many of the procedures performed with our products. Additionally, in our quest to obsolete our products, we must effectively manage our inventory, the demand for new and current product and the regulatory process for new products in order to avoid unintended financial and accounting consequences. If we do not effectively manage our strategy of obsoleting our products by acquiring or developing new products or product enhancements that we can introduce in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, or if we do not manage the product transitions well which would result in margin reducing writeoffs for obsolete inventory, our results of operations may suffer. If clinical trials of our current or future product candidates do not produce results necessary to support regulatory approval in the United States, we will be unable to commercialize these products. Several investigational devices in our development pipeline, including our NeoDisc cervical disc replacement device, PCM and lateral TDR (XL TDR), will require a PMA from the FDA. A PMA application must be submitted if the device cannot be cleared through the less rigorous 510(k) process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trials, manufacturing and labeling to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. As a result, to receive regulatory approval for NeoDisc, PCM, XL TDR or other devices requiring PMA approval, we must conduct, at our own expense, adequate and well controlled clinical trials to demonstrate efficacy and safety in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, takes many years and has an uncertain outcome. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may 19 Table of Contents decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any of our devices would prevent receipt of regulatory approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that device. Our NeoDisc, PCM, and XL TDR devices are currently the subject of an Investigational Device Exemption clinical study. There is no assurance that these devices will be approved for sale in the United States by the FDA. The clinical study may prove that the device does not provide the intended benefit or that there are unintended negative side effects of the device that make it unsafe or not effective. In addition, the NeoDisc device includes embroidery technology, which has not been thoroughly studied for use as permanent implants in the spine. Any failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval for these devices will hamper our ability to commercialize the device in the United States. If our acquisitions are unsuccessful, our business may be harmed. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired companies, technologies and product lines to maintain our objectives of developing or acquiring innovative technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • the possibility that we will pay more than the value we derive from the acquisition, which could result in future non-cash impairment charges and/or a dilution of future earnings per share; • difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies, which may require significant attention of our management that otherwise would be available for the ongoing development of our business; • the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of the acquired companies; and • difficulties in retaining key relationships with shareowners (employees), customers, partners and suppliers of the acquired company. Any of these factors could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financing position. Our investment in Progentix Orthobiology B.V., a private company working to develop a synthetic bone graft material, includes options and obligations to buy Progentix Orthobiology B.V. over time as development milestones are achieved. If the Progentix products are not commercially successful or unable to meet expected commercial success, but certain development milestones are achieved, we may be obligated to purchase Progentix Orthobiology B.V. at a price greater than the economic value we can derive from the acquisition of that company. Further, past and potential acquisitions entail risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business, especially where we have little experience as a company developing or marketing a particular product or technology (as is the case with the Progentix products). For example, we may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired company’s operations, business processes, technologies, products and services, information systems and personnel into our business. Acquisitions may also further strain our existing financial and managerial controls, and divert management’s attention away from our other business concerns. Our reliance on single source suppliers could limit our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within our budget. We rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers to supply and manufacture our products. To be successful, our contract manufacturers must be able to provide us with products and components in substantial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable cost and on a timely basis. Our anticipated growth could strain the ability of suppliers to deliver an increasingly large supply of products, materials and components. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality components to meet customer demand on a timely basis, we could lose customers, our reputation may be harmed and our business could suffer. We currently use one or two manufacturers for each of our devices or components. Our dependence on one or two manufacturers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. If any one or more of our manufacturers cease to provide us with sufficient quantities of our components 20 Table of Contents in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, or cease to manufacture components of acceptable quality, we would have to seek alternative sources of manufacturing. We could incur delays while we locate and engage alternative qualified suppliers and we might be unable to engage alternative suppliers on favorable terms. Any such disruption or increased expenses could harm our commercialization efforts and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. Invibio, Inc. (Invibio) is our exclusive supplier of polyetheretherketone (PEEK), which comprises our PEEK partial vertebral body product called CoRoent. We have a supply agreement with Invibio, pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase our entire supply of polyetheretherketone for our current product lines from Invibio. We also have an exclusive supply arrangement with Sparton Medical Corporation (Sparton) pursuant to which Sparton is our exclusive supplier of our proprietary neuromonitoring systems. In the event we experience delays, shortages, or stoppages of supply with either supplier, we would be forced to locate a suitable alternative supplier which could take significant time and result in significant expense. Any inability to meet our customers’ demands for these products could lead to decreased sales and harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers to our competitors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Maxigen Biotech, Inc., or MBI, is our sole supplier of our FormaGraft product. We may require that MBI significantly expand its manufacturing capacity to meet our potential forecasted needs, and no assurance can be given that MBI will be able to meet our requirements. If we experience difficulties in dealing with MBI, we may not be able to secure an adequate source of supply of FormaGraft, which could adversely affect our operational results. We acquired PCM, a motion preserving total disc replacement device, through our acquisition of Cervitech, Inc. (Cervitech). Our supply of the product comes from two sources: Waldemar Link GmbH & Co. KG, a company that was affiliated with Cervitech prior to the acquisition, and Sandvik Medical Solutions Limited. Upon approval of the PCM product by the FDA, we plan on using Sandvik Medical Solutions Limited as our sole supplier of PCM. At such time, we will determine whether to establish alternate suppliers and there is no assurance that we will be able to establish a new supplier which could adversely affect our operational results. Further, Tissue Banks International, Inc., AlloSource, Inc. and Community Tissue Services collectively supply us with all of our allograft implants. The processing of human tissue into allograft implants is very labor intensive and it is therefore difficult to maintain a steady supply stream. AlloSource is also our exclusive supplier of Osteocel Plus, which is processed from allograft. Allograft, which is donated human tissue, is a supply-constrained material and there is ongoing risk that there will be insufficient supply to produce the necessary quantity of Osteocel Plus and our other allograft products. In addition, due to seasonal changes in mortality rates, some scarce tissues used for our allograft products are at times in particularly short supply. Allograft also carries with it the possibility of disease transmission, which could result in negative patient outcomes and negative publicity for us. We cannot be certain that our supply of allograft from Tissue Banks International, Inc. and AlloSource, Inc. will be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our needs. If we are no longer able to obtain allograft from these sources in amounts sufficient to meet our needs, we may not be able to locate and engage replacement sources of allograft on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any interruption of our business caused by the need to locate additional sources of allograft could reduce our revenues. We are dependent on the services of Alexis V. Lukianov and Keith C. Valentine, and the loss of either of them could harm our business. Our continued success depends in part upon the continued service of Alexis V. Lukianov, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Keith C. Valentine, our President and Chief Operating Officer, who are critical to the overall management of NuVasive as well as to the development of our technology, our culture and our strategic direction. We have entered into employment arrangements with Messrs. Lukianov and Valentine, but neither of these agreements guarantees the service of the individual for a specified period of time. The loss of either Messr. Lukianov or Valentine could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have not obtained and do not expect to obtain any key-person life insurance policies. 21 Table of Contents If we fail to properly manage our anticipated international growth, our business could suffer. We have invested, and expect to increase our investment for the foreseeable future, in our expansion into international markets. To execute our anticipated growth in international markets we must: • manage the complexities associated with a larger, faster growing and more geographically diverse organization; • expand our clinical development resources to manage and execute increasingly global, larger and more complex clinical trials; • expand our sales and marketing resources for international expansion and to launch products targeted for international markets; and • upgrade our internal business processes and capabilities (e.g., information technology platform and systems, product distribution and tracking) to create the scalability and properly handle the transaction volumes that our growing geographically diverse organization demands. We currently expect that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we continue to expand into international markets. We have only limited experience in expanding into international markets as well as marketing and operating our products and services in such markets. Certain international markets, such as Japan, take a lot of time and resources to receive product approvals and clearances to sell and promote products. After we receive the appropriate approvals and clearances, international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting our products and are expected to yield lower profit margins when compared to our domestic operations. Additionally, our international endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from domestic operations, insufficient revenue to offset expenses associated with our international strategy, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence. Because expansion into international markets is inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Even if our international expansion is successful, our expenses may increase at a greater pace than our revenues and our operating results could be harmed. Further, our anticipated growth internationally will place additional strain on our suppliers and manufacturers, resulting in increased need for us to carefully monitor quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals. If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or product enhancements, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer. Our medical devices are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or is the subject of an approved PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. We are currently in the process of seeking regulatory clearance for AttraX, a synthetic bone graft material being developed by Progentix delivered in putty form, through the 510(k) process. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. Additionally, any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, premarket approval. The FDA may not agree with any of our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. 22 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with such regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, or product seizures. In the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. Pursuant to FDA regulations, we can only market our products for cleared or approved uses. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities. Additionally, surgeons use several of our products for unapproved uses. While surgeons are permitted by the FDA to use our products for unapproved uses, there is a heightened risk of an enforcement action by a governmental enforcement authority when surgeons engage in that practice. Foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent and, to the extent we market and sell our products in foreign countries, we may be subject to rigorous regulation in the future. In such circumstances, we would rely significantly on our foreign independent sales agencies to comply with the varying regulations, and any failures on their part could result in restrictions on the sale of our products in foreign countries. The safety of our products is not yet supported by long-term clinical data and our products may therefore prove to be less safe and effective than initially thought. We obtained clearance to offer almost all of our products that require FDA clearance or approval through the FDA’s 510(k) clearance process. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process is less rigorous than the PMA process and requires less supporting clinical data. As a result, we currently lack the breadth of published long-term clinical data supporting the safety of our products and the benefits they offer that might have been generated in connection with the PMA process. For these reasons, spine surgeons may be slow to adopt our products; we may not have comparative data that our competitors have or are generating and we may be subject to greater regulatory and product liability risks. Further, future patient studies or clinical experience may indicate that treatment with our products does not improve patient outcomes. Such results would reduce demand for our products, affect our ability to have sustainable reimbursement for our products from third-party payers, significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenues and could prevent us from sustaining or increasing profitability. Moreover, if future results and experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we could be subject to significant legal liability and harm to our business reputation. The spine medical device market has been particularly prone to costly product liability litigation. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, the manufacture of our products could be delayed and we may be subject to an enforcement action by the FDA. We and our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the quality system regulation through inspections. If we or one of our suppliers fail a quality system regulations inspection or if any corrective action plan is not sufficient, the manufacture of our products could be delayed. We underwent FDA inspections regarding our allograft implant business and FDA inspections regarding our medical device activities. In connection with these inspections as well as prior inspections, the FDA requested minor corrective actions, which we have implemented. There can be no assurance the FDA will not subject us to further enforcement action and the FDA may impose additional inspections at any time. Additionally, we are the legal manufacturer of record for the products that are distributed and labeled by NuVasive, regardless of whether the products are manufactured by us or our suppliers. Thus, a failure by us or our 23 Table of Contents suppliers to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing our request for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that are already granted; and • criminal prosecution. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Financing We may be unable to grow our revenue or earnings as anticipated, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception, and have increased our revenues from $38.4 million in 2004, the year of our initial public offering, to $478.2 million in 2010. We anticipate continued growth and have provided guidance related to such growth for 2011. Our ability to achieve the anticipated growth will depend upon, among other things, the success of our growth strategies, which we cannot assure you will be successful. In addition, we may have more difficulty maintaining our prior rate of growth of revenues or recent earnings. Our future success will depend upon various factors, including the strength of our brand image, the market success of our current and future products, competitive conditions and our ability to manage increased revenues, if any, or implement our growth strategy. In addition, we anticipate significantly expanding our infrastructure and adding personnel in connection with our anticipated growth, which we expect will cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and which may cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase as a percentage of revenue. Because these expenses are generally fixed, particularly in the short-to-medium term, operating results may be adversely impacted if we do not achieve our anticipated growth. The financial crisis and general slowdown of the economy may adversely affect our liquidity and the liquidity of our customers. At December 31, 2010, we had $92.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $137.1 million in investments in marketable securities. We have historically invested these amounts in U.S. treasuries and government agencies, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and municipal bonds meeting certain criteria. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity and other market risks. The general condition of the financial markets and the economy has exacerbated those risks and may affect the value of our current investments and restrict our ability to access the capital markets or even our own funds. The liquidity of our customers and suppliers may also be affected by the current financial crisis. If our suppliers experience credit or liquidity problems, important sources of raw materials or manufactured goods may be affected. If our customers’ liquidity and creditworthiness is negatively impacted by the current financial crisis and the condition of the economy, our ability to collect on our outstanding invoices and our collection cycles may be adversely affected. We may not be able to refinance our Senior Convertible Notes. Our $230 million Senior Convertible Notes outstanding at December 31, 2010 are due March 2013 and will need to be refinanced before then. Capital markets, including the debt markets, have seen periods of time when liquidity was just not available. Most recently, when the economic crisis hit in 2008 there was an extended period of time when the capital markets were illiquid and debt refinancings could not get done. There can be no guarantee that our financial performance will justify and enable, or that capital markets will be favorable, to allow for a refinancing of this debt. If a refinancing were prevented or impossible it would have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund, or grow, our existing operations. 24 Table of Contents Upon the achievement of certain milestones related to our acquisitions, we may be required to make payments which may affect our liquidity and our financial results. In connection with our recent acquisitions, we may be obligated to make payments in the future upon the achievement of certain milestones. We currently have $33.0 million in outstanding potential milestone obligations under our agreement with the shareholders of Cervitech and may be required to make milestone payments upon the completion of certain milestones and purchase the remaining sixty (60) percent of Progentix Orthobiology B.V. for an aggregate amount up to $61.0 million (effective January 14, 2011, this amount is reduced to $56.0 million). The likelihood of those milestones being achieved and the timing of such payments are uncertain and are subject to change over time. If we are required to make those payments, particularly at a time when we are experiencing financial difficulty, our liquidity, financial results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Litigation We are currently involved in several patent litigation actions, including an action involving Medtronic, and, if we do not prevail in this action against Medtronic, we could be liable for past damages and might be prevented from making, using, selling, offering to sell, importing or exporting certain of our products. On August 18, 2008, Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA, Inc. and its related entities (Medtronic) filed suit against NuVasive in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California, alleging that certain of our products infringe, or contribute to the infringement of, U.S. patents owned by Medtronic. Medtronic is a large, publicly-traded corporation with significantly greater financial resources than us. As further examples of intellectual property risks we face in this industry, on April 20, 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Orthofix, Inc. and its related entities (Orthofix) and Musculoskeletal Transplant Foundation for infringement of a patent licensed as part of our purchase of Osteocel Plus®. In December 2010, the parties entered into a license agreement covering the subject product marketed by Orthofix, Trinity Evolution®, and the lawsuit was settled by the parties. Similarly, on October 5, 2010, we initiated a patent infringement lawsuit against Globus Medical, Inc. (Globus) to protect our investment in our XLIF procedure and MaXcess retractor system. The lawsuit against Globus is in its early stages, and the outcome of this litigation is difficult to predict. Intellectual property litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. We may also be subject to negative publicity due to the litigation. Pending or future patent litigation against us or any strategic partners or licensees may force us or any strategic partners or licensees to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property, unless that party grants us or any strategic partners or licensees rights to use its intellectual property, and may significantly divert the attention of our technical and management personnel. In the event that our right to market any of our products is successfully challenged, and if we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all, and any licenses may require substantial royalties or other payments by us. Even if any strategic partners, licensees or we were able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Furthermore, if we are found to infringe patent claims of a third party, we may, among other things, be required to pay damages, including up to treble damages and attorney’s fees and costs, which may be substantial. An unfavorable outcome for us in this patent litigation could significantly harm our business if such outcome makes us unable to commercialize some of our current or potential products or cease some of our business operations. In addition, costs of defense and any damages resulting from the litigation may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. The litigation may also harm our relationships with existing customers and subject us to negative publicity, each of which could harm our business and financial results. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, our pending U.S. and foreign patent applications may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us or may issue and be subsequently successfully challenged by others and invalidated. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products which provide outcomes which are comparable to ours. Moreover, competitors may challenge our issued patents through the reexamination process (domestically) and/or opposition proceedings (internationally), such as was done by Medtronic on two of our U.S. patents related to aspects of our XLIF surgical technique. We asserted these patents against Medtronic as part of our ongoing patent litigation. Patent reexamination was granted by the U.S. Patent Office in each case. If the U.S. Patent Office cancels or narrows the claims in these patents, it could prevent or hinder us from being able to enforce them against competitors. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our officers, shareowners, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition, there are numerous proposed changes to the patent laws and rules of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office which, if enacted, may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. Moreover, Congress is considering several significant changes to the U.S. patent laws, including, among other things, changing from a “first to invent” to a “first inventor to file” system, limiting where a patentee may file a patent suit, requiring the apportionment of patent damages, and creating a post-grant opposition process to challenge patents after they have issued. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be costly, difficult and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against a challenge. In addition, certain product categories, including pedicle screws, have been the subject of significant patent litigation in recent years. Since we sell pedicle screws and recently introduced our SpheRx and Armada pedicle screw systems, any related litigation could harm our business. The medical device industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. It is not unusual for parties to exchange letters surrounding allegations of intellectual property infringement and licensing arrangements. Patent litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim relating to infringement of patents that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages in some cases. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our success will also depend in part on our not infringing patents issued to others, including our competitors and potential competitors. If our products are found to infringe the patents of others, our development, manufacture and sale of such potential products could be severely restricted or prohibited. In addition, our competitors may independently develop technologies similar to ours. Because of the importance of our patent portfolio to our business, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. As the number of entrants into our market increases, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us grows. While we make an effort to ensure that our products do not infringe other parties’ patents and proprietary 26 Table of Contents rights, our products and methods may be covered by patents held by our competitors. In addition, our competitors may assert that future products we may market infringe their patents. A patent infringement suit brought against us or any of our strategic partners or licensees may force us or such strategic partners or licensees to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property, unless that party grants us or our strategic partners or licensees rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all, and any licenses may require substantial royalties or other payments by us. Even if our strategic partners, licensees or we were able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. We are currently involved in a trademark litigation action involving the NeuroVision brand name and, if we do not prevail on our appeal of the verdict, we could be liable for substantial damages. A judgment in our ongoing trademark dispute regarding the NeuroVision brand name was handed down by the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. An unfavorable jury verdict was delivered against us in our use of the NeuroVision name. The verdict, which we plan to immediately appeal, awarded damages to the plaintiff of $60 million. We sought emergency relief and on February 3, 2011, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals stayed enforcement of the injunction. During pendency of the appeal, we may be required to post a supersedeas bond or escrow funds to secure the amount of the judgment. This could result in a material reduction in the liquidity required to run or grow our business. While this case relates solely to the use of the NeuroVision brand name and does not involve our proprietary neuromonitoring technology underlying the NeuroVision system or future products, it may require us to rebrand and re-market the NeuroVision brand name. This could result in a significant impact on our marketing costs and other related financial costs. There is a chance that the acceptance of a new brand name will be lengthy and may not be well received by our customers. The appeals process could be expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. We may also be subject to negative publicity due to this trademark litigation. The litigation required during the appeals process may significantly divert the attention of our technical and management personnel. We are unable to predict the outcome of our appeal. In the event that we are unsuccessful in our appeal, we could be required to pay significant damages which are not covered under any of our insurance plans. In the event this outcome occurred, our business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations would be materially adversely affected. If we become subject to product liability claims, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacture and sale of medical devices for spine surgery procedures. Spine surgery involves significant risk of serious complications, including bleeding, nerve injury, paralysis and even death. In addition, we sell allograft products, derived from cadaver bones, which pose the potential risk of biological contamination. If any such contamination is found to exist, sales of allograft products could decline and our reputation would be harmed. Currently, we maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $10 million. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. In addition, if our product liability insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may have to pay the excess out of our cash reserves which may harm our financial condition. If longer-term patient results and experience indicate that our products or any component cause tissue damage, motor impairment or other adverse effects, we could be subject to significant liability. Finally, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to rigorous governmental regulations regarding the development, manufacture, and sale of our products and we may incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and develop products that are compatible with these regulations. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial sanctions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The medical devices we manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, including regulations that cover the composition, labeling, testing, clinical study, manufacturing, packaging, marketing and distribution of our products. We are required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer. As a result, we are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. Our compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products, and are subject to periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we or our suppliers fail to adhere to QSR, ISO or similar requirements, this could delay product production and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances, recalls or other consequences, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or prospects. Medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of approved products that have been commercialized, and can prevent or limit further marketing of a product based upon the results of post-marketing programs. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Furthermore, most major markets for medical devices outside the United States require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental authorities, can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals may not be granted for future products or product improvements on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products or product improvements could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in substantial additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or prospects. At any time after approval of a product, the FDA may conduct periodic inspections to determine compliance with both QSR requirements and/or current Medical Device Reporting regulations. Product approvals by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval Pursuant to FDA regulations, we can only market our products for cleared or approved uses. Although physicians are permitted to use medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA based on their medical judgment, we are prohibited from promoting products for such off-label uses. We market our products and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of our products. Although we believe our marketing, promotional materials and training programs for physicians do not constitute promotion of unapproved uses of our products, if it is determined that our marketing, promotional materials or training programs constitute promotion of unapproved uses, we could be subject to significant fines in addition to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure and criminal penalty. Whenever the United States or another foreign governmental authority concludes that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, such governmental authority can impose fines, delay or suspend regulatory clearances, institute proceedings to detain or seize our products, issue a recall, impose operating restrictions, enjoin future violations and assess civil penalties against us or our officers or employees, and can recommend criminal prosecution to the Department of Justice. Moreover, governmental authorities can ban or request the recall, repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device or product we manufacture or distribute. Any of the foregoing actions could result in decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability 28 Table of Contents claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition to the sanctions for noncompliance described above, commencement of an enforcement proceeding, inspection or investigation could divert substantial management attention from the operation of our business and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any claims relating to our making improper payments or providing improper gifts or benefits to physicians or other potential violations of laws or regulations governing interactions between us and health care professionals, could be time consuming and costly. Our relationship with health care professionals, such as physicians, hospitals and those that may market our products (e.g., distributors, etc.), are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws, rules and regulation (e.g., anti-kickback statute, self-referral/Stark laws, false claims, etc.), often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These laws are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation, which could require us to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices if they are found not to be in compliance. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. Despite implementation of a comprehensive healthcare compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that any of the healthcare fraud and abuse laws will not change or be interpreted in the future in a manner which restricts or adversely affects our business activities or relationships with health care professionals nor can we make any assurances that authorities will not challenge or investigate our current or future activities under these laws. In recent years, both the United States and foreign government regulators have increased regulation, enforcement, inspections and governmental investigations of the medical device industry, including increased United States government oversight and enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Despite implementation of a comprehensive global compliance program, we may be subject to more regulation, enforcement, inspections and investigations by governmental authorities in the future. Whenever the United States or another foreign governmental authority concludes that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, such governmental authority can impose fines, delay or suspend regulatory clearances, institute proceedings to detain or seize our products, issue a recall, impose operating restrictions, enjoin future violations and assess civil penalties against us or our officers or employees, and can recommend criminal prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any of the foregoing actions could result in decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Although physicians are permitted to use medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA based on their medical judgment, we are prohibited from promoting products for such off-label uses. We market our products and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of our products. Although we believe our marketing, promotional materials and training programs for physicians do not constitute promotion of unapproved uses of our products, if it is determined that our marketing, promotional materials or training programs constitute promotion of unapproved uses, we could be subject to significant fines in addition to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure and criminal penalty. In addition to the sanctions for noncompliance described above, commencement of an enforcement proceeding, inspection or investigation could divert substantial management attention from the operation of our business, as well as could result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, Synthes, Inc., in 2010, settled with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) for $22 million relating to allegations that it illegally tested bone cement on patients and Guidant Corporation/Boston Scientific, in 2009, settled with the OIG for $22 million relating to alleged improper payments made to physicians for certain post-market surveys. Additionally, we must comply with a variety of other laws, such as the (i) Healthcare Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which protects the privacy of individually identifiable healthcare information; (ii) ) The Physician Payment Sunshine Act which requires medical device companies to begin reporting all compensation, gifts and benefits provided to certain health care professional in 2013; and (iii) the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertisement and consumer protections. 29 Table of Contents We or our suppliers may be the subject of claims for non-compliance with FDA regulations in connection with the processing or distribution of allograft products. It is possible that allegations may be made against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks, including those with which we have a contractual relationship, claiming that the acquisition or processing of tissue for allograft products does not comply with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes and regulations. Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action against us, or could cause negative publicity for us or our industry in general. These actions or any negative publicity could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the attention of our management from our business, harm our reputation and cause the market price of our shares to decline. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially, potentially adversely affecting the ability of investors to sell their shares. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and may fluctuate substantially. For example, the closing price for our stock on the last day of the past four quarters was: $45.20 on March 31, 2010; $35.46 on June 30, 2010; $35.14 on September 30, 2010; and $25.65 on December 31, 2010. Fluctuation in the stock price may occur due to many factors, including: • general market conditions and other factors (such as the effect the financial crisis is having on stock markets as a whole), including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These conditions might include people’s expectations, favorable or unfavorable, as to the likely unit growth of the spine sector; • negative publicity regarding spine surgeon’s practices or outcomes, whether warranted or not, that shed the sector in a negative light; • the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries; • disputes or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights or other potential legal actions; • our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearance or approval for, and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • quarterly variations in our or our competitor’s results of operations; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers and directors; • announcements of technological or medical innovations for the treatment of spine pathology; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals, clearances or applications; • the acquisition or divestiture of businesses, products, assets or technology; • litigation, including intellectual property litigation; • announcements of actions by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; and • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by us or by securities analysts. Market price fluctuations may negatively affect the ability of investors to sell our shares at consistent prices. 30 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; • prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; • prohibit our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 662/3% stockholder approval; and • require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 