ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Actual results in future periods for Great Plains Energy and KCP&L could differ materially from historical results and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. The companies’ business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond the companies’ control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the companies’ management currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the companies. This information, as well as the other information included in this report and in the other documents filed with the SEC, should be carefully considered before making an investment in the securities of Great Plains Energy and KCP&L. Risk factors of KCP&L and GMO are also risk factors of Great Plains Energy. Regulatory and Environmental Risks: Complex utility and environmental regulation could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. KCP&L and GMO are subject to, or affected by, extensive federal and state utility regulation, including by the MPSC, KCC, FERC, NRC, SPP and NERC. They must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. In the Company’s business planning and management of operations, it must address the effects of existing and proposed regulation on its businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, regional transmission organizations, utility regulators and taxing authorities. Failure of KCP&L or GMO to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner, adoption of new regulations by federal or state agencies, or changes to current regulations and interpretations of such regulations may materially affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 11 The outcome of retail rate proceedings could have a material impact on the business and is largely outside the Company’s control. The rates that KCP&L and GMO are allowed to charge their customers are the single most important item influencing their results of operations, financial position and cash flows. These rates are subject to the determination, in large part, of governmental entities outside of KCP&L’s and GMO’s control, including the MPSC, KCC (for KCP&L) and FERC. KCP&L and GMO are also exposed to cost-recovery shortfalls due to the inherent lag in the rate-setting process, especially during periods of significant cost inflation, as utility rates in Missouri and Kansas are set on the basis of historical costs and are not subject to adjustment (other than for fuel and purchased power for KCP&L in Kansas and GMO) between rate cases. As a part of the Missouri and Kansas stipulations approved by the MPSC and KCC in 2005, KCP&L began implementation of its Comprehensive Energy Plan. Under the Comprehensive Energy Plan, KCP&L agreed to undertake certain projects, including Iatan No. 2, installing a new wind-powered generating facility, installing environmental upgrades to certain existing plants, infrastructure improvements and demand management, distributed generation, and customer efficiency and affordability programs. In March 2007, KCP&L entered into a Collaboration Agreement with the Sierra Club and Concerned Citizens of Platte County that provides for increases in KCP&L’s wind generation capacity and energy efficiency initiatives, reductions in certain emission permit levels at its Iatan and LaCygne generating stations, and projects to offset certain carbon dioxide emissions. The wind generation, energy efficiency and emission permit reductions are conditioned on regulatory approval. A reduction or rejection by the MPSC or KCC of rate increase requests reflecting the costs of projects under the Comprehensive Energy Plan or Collaboration Agreement, or other costs and expenses, could lead to lowered credit ratings, reduced access to capital markets, increased financing costs, lower flexibility due to constrained financial resources and increased collateral security requirements, which could materially and adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative and regulatory pressures, KCP&L and GMO may be subject to rate moratoriums, rate refunds and limits on rate increases or rate reductions, including phase-in plans designed to spread the impact of rate increases over an extended period of time for the benefit of customers. Any or all of these could have a significant adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Regulatory requirements regarding utility operations may increase costs and may expose KCP&L and GMO to compliance penalties. The MPSC and KCC have the authority to implement utility operational standards and requirements, such as vegetation management standards, facilities inspection requirements and quality of service standards. KCP&L agreed to quality of service standards in Kansas in connection with the GMO acquisition. The costs of new or modified operational standards and requirements could have an adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows as a result of increased operations or maintenance and capital expenditures for new facilities or to repair or improve existing facilities. Failure to meet quality of service, operational or other standards and requirements could expose KCP&L or GMO to penalties or other adverse rate consequences. 12 The Company is subject to current and potential environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities, any or all of which may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. The Company is subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities with regard to air quality and other environmental matters, through KCP&L’s and GMO’s operations. The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity produces and requires proper management and disposal of certain hazardous products and wastes, which are subject to these laws and regulations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. There is also a risk that new environmental laws and regulations, and new judicial interpretations of environmental laws and regulations, could adversely affect KCP&L’s and GMO’s operations. In particular, various stakeholders, including legislators, regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as utilities and other companies in many business sectors, are considering ways to address climate change, including through the regulation of CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions and efforts to encourage or mandate the use of renewable resources, energy efficiency and demand response management. In November 2008, Missouri voters approved an initiative that requires at least 2% of electricity to come from renewable resources by 2011, increasing to 15% by 2021. The governor of Kansas supports mandatory renewable energy portfolio standards, and bills that would establish such standards have been introduced in the 2009 Kansas Legislature. The Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) has indicated that it intends to engage industries and stakeholders to establish goals and strategies for reducing CO2 emissions. Additional federal and/or state legislation or regulation to release greenhouse gas emissions may be enacted in the near future. Further, pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement, KCP&L agreed to pursue a set of initiatives including energy efficiency, additional wind generation, lower emission permit levels at its Iatan and LaCygne stations and other initiatives designed to offset CO2 emissions. KCP&L’s current generation capacity is primarily coal-fired and is estimated to produce about one ton of CO2 per MWh, or approximately 17 million tons per year. GMO’s current generation capacity also is primarily coal-fired and is estimated to produce approximately 6 million tons of CO2 per year. Requirements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may cause KCP&L and GMO to incur significant costs relating to their ongoing operations (through additional environmental control equipment, retiring and replacing existing generation, or selecting more costly generation alternatives), to procure emission allowance credits, or due to the imposition of taxes, fees or other governmental charges as a result of such emissions. Rules issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding emissions of mercury, nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxides are also in a state of flux. Such rules have been overturned by the courts and remanded to the EPA to be revised consistent with the court orders. It is unclear what standards will be imposed in the future, when KCP&L and GMO may have to comply with any new standards or what costs may ultimately be required to comply with such standards. New facilities, or modifications of existing facilities, may require new environmental permits or amendments to existing permits. Delays in the environmental permitting process, denials of permit applications, conditions imposed in permits and the associated uncertainty may materially affect the cost and timing of the environmental retrofit projects included in the Comprehensive Energy Plan, among other projects, and thus materially affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Under current law, KCP&L and GMO are also generally responsible for any liabilities associated with the environmental condition of their properties, including properties that they have previously owned or operated, such as manufactured gas plants (MGP), regardless of whether they were responsible for the contamination or whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time they owned or operated the properties. KCP&L and GMO may not be allowed by the MPSC or KCC to recover all of their costs for environmental expenditures through rates in the future. The incurrence of material environmental costs or liabilities, without related rate recovery, could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s or KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding environmental matters. 13 The Federal Clean Air Act requires companies to obtain permits and, if necessary, install control equipment to reduce emissions when making a major modification or a change in operation of an existing facility if either is expected to cause a significant net increase in regulated emissions. In 2004, the EPA notified Westar Energy, Inc. (Westar) that certain projects completed at the Jeffrey Energy Center violated certain New Source Review permitting requirements. GMO is an 8% owner of the facility, which is operated by Westar, and is generally responsible for its 8% share of the facility’s operating costs and capital expenditures. On February 4, 2009, the Attorney General of the United States filed a complaint against Westar alleging that it violated the Clean Air Act and related federal and state regulations by making major modifications to the Jeffrey Energy Center beginning in 1994 without first obtaining appropriate permits authorizing this construction and without installing and operating best available control technology to control emissions. Resolution of this matter potentially could involve the installation and operation of new emission control systems at Jeffrey Energy Center, surrender of emission allowances, interruptions or shut-down of operations at the Jeffrey Energy Center, applications for new or modified permits, audits of Jeffrey Energy Center operations, actions to otherwise mitigate any resulting harm to public health and the environment, and assessment of a civil penalty of up to $37,500 per day for each violation. GMO’s 8% portion of such costs could be significant. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined, nor can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome presently be reasonably estimated. There is no assurance these costs, if any, could be recovered in rates, and any failure to recover such costs could have a significant effect on Great Plains Energy’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In 2008, KCP&L received a subpoena from a federal grand jury seeking documents relating to capital projects at Iatan No. 1. KCP&L expects to complete the delivery of responsive documents by early March 2009. KCP&L believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with all relevant laws and regulations; however, the ultimate outcome of these grand jury activities or possible civil or administrative proceedings regarding capital projects at Iatan No. 1 and other coal units cannot presently be determined, nor can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome presently be reasonably estimated. There is no assurance these costs, if any, could be recovered in rates, and any failure to recover such costs could have a significant effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Due to all of the above, KCP&L’s and GMO’s projected capital and other expenditures for environmental compliance are subject to significant uncertainties, including the timing of implementation of any new or modified environmental requirements, the emissions limits imposed by such requirements and the types and costs of the compliance alternatives selected by KCP&L and GMO. As a result, costs to comply with environmental requirements cannot be estimated with certainty, and actual costs could be significantly higher than projections. Other new environmental laws and regulations affecting the operations of KCP&L and GMO may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to KCP&L and GMO or their facilities, any of which may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s business and substantially increase their environmental expenditures or liabilities in the future. Financial Risks: Financial market disruptions and declines in the credit ratings of Great Plains Energy, KCP&L or GMO may increase financing costs and/or limit access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect liquidity and results. KCP&L’s capital requirements are expected to be substantial over the next several years. The acquisition of GMO has further increased the Company’s overall capital requirements, and the capital requirements of GMO over the next several years are expected to be substantial as it implements generation and environmental projects. The Company relies on access to short-term money markets, revolving credit facilities provided by financial institutions and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. The Company also relies on bank-provided credit facilities for credit support, such as letters of credit, to support operations. The amount of credit support required for KCP&L and GMO operations varies with a number of factors, including the amount and price of wholesale power purchased or sold. 14 Great Plains Energy, KCP&L, GMO and certain of their securities are rated by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. These ratings impact the companies’ cost of funds and Great Plains Energy’s ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries. The interest rates on borrowings under KCP&L’s revolving credit agreement and on a substantial portion of Great Plains Energy’s and GMO’s debt are subject to increase as their respective credit ratings decrease. The Company has agreed to not seek rate recovery of GMO interest costs in excess of equivalent investment-grade debt, and the MPSC approval of the GMO acquisition is conditioned on the requirement that any post-acquisition financial effects of a credit downgrade of Great Plains Energy, KCP&L or GMO occurring as a result of the acquisition would be borne by shareholders and not utility customers. The amount of collateral or other credit support required under power supply agreements is also dependent on credit ratings. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, or if there is a decrease in Great Plains Energy’s, KCP&L’s or GMO’s credit ratings, there can be no assurance that the companies would not experience an adverse effect on their access to capital and cost of funds, dilution resulting from equity issuances at reduced prices, increases in the amount of collateral or other credit support obligations required to be posted with contractual counterparties, increased nuclear decommissioning trust and pension and other post-retirement benefit plan funding requirements, issuance of secured rather than unsecured debt, rate case disallowance of KCP&L’s or GMO’s costs of capital, or reductions in Great Plains Energy’s ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries. Any of these results could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, market disruption and volatility could have an adverse impact on Great Plains Energy’s, KCP&L’s or GMO’s lenders, suppliers and other counterparties or on KCP&L’s, GMO’s, including MPS Merchant, customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. A sustained decline in Great Plains Energy’s stock price below book value may result in goodwill impairments that could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s results of operations and financial position, as well as credit facility covenants. The GMO acquisition resulted in Great Plains Energy recording approximately $156 million in goodwill. Accounting rules require goodwill to be tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs indicating that it is possible that an impairment exists. The Company’s annual impairment testing is conducted in September. Subsequent to September 2008, financial market disruptions and volatility have resulted in Great Plains Energy’s stock trading at a price below carrying value. If the stock price continues to be below carrying value, the accounting rules may require Great Plains Energy to conduct another goodwill impairment test. There is no assurance that the results of this additional test will not require Great Plains Energy to recognize an impairment of goodwill. An impairment of GMO acquisition goodwill would reduce net income and may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s results of operations and financial position, and could result in a breach of the debt to total capitalization covenants in Great Plains Energy’s and GMO’s revolving credit agreements. Great Plains Energy has guaranteed substantially all of the outstanding debt of GMO and payments under these guarantees may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s liquidity. In connection with the GMO acquisition, Great Plains Energy issued guarantees covering substantially all of the outstanding debt of GMO and has guaranteed a $400 million revolving credit facility that was entered into by GMO subsequent to the acquisition. The guarantees were a factor in GMO receiving investment-grade ratings and the guarantees obligate Great Plains Energy directly to pay amounts owed by GMO to the holders of the guaranteed debt in the event GMO defaults on its payment obligations. Any guarantee payments could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s liquidity. The inability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to provide sufficient dividends to allow Great Plains Energy to pay dividends to its shareholders and meet its financial obligations would have an adverse effect. Great Plains Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. The primary source of funds for payment of dividends to its shareholders and its financial obligations is dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, particularly KCP&L and GMO. KCP&L has committed to state regulatory commissions to maintain a 35% 15 equity to total capitalization ratio, and Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and GMO have similar covenants in their revolving credit facilities. In addition, under federal law, KCP&L and GMO may pay dividends generally only out of retained earnings. The ability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions, and accordingly, Great Plains Energy’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock and meet its financial obligations principally depends on the actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial position of its subsidiaries, as well as on regulatory factors, financial covenants, general business conditions and other matters. Market performance, increased retirements and changes in retirement plan regulations could significantly impact retirement plan funding requirements and associated cash needs and expenses. Substantially all of KCP&L’s employees participate in defined benefit and post-retirement plans. GMO’s former employees in its Missouri utility operations and certain other operations have accrued benefits in GMO’s defined benefit and post-retirement plans. If KCP&L employees retire when they become eligible for retirement through 2011, or if these plans experience adverse market returns on investments (as has been the case during the 2008 period), or if interest rates materially fall, KCP&L and GMO contributions to the plans could rise substantially over historical levels. In addition, assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions, including projected retirements, have a significant impact on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) alters the manner in which pension plan assets and liabilities are valued for purposes of calculating required pension contributions and changes the timing of required contributions to underfunded plans. The funding rules, which became effective in 2008, could significantly affect the Company’s funding requirements. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has a project to reconsider the accounting for expense recognition related to pensions and other post-retirement benefits, which may result in accelerated expense. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of business could result in losses that could negatively impact Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Great Plains Energy, KCP&L, GMO, including MPS Merchant, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage commodity and financial risks. Losses could be recognized as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, if a counterparty fails to perform, or if the underlying transactions which the derivative instruments are intended to hedge fail to materialize. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. As a service provider to GMO, KCP&L may have exposure to GMO’s financial performance and operations. GMO has no employees of its own. KCP&L employees operate and manage GMO’s properties, and KCP&L charges GMO for the cost of these services. These arrangements may pose risks to KCP&L, including possible claims arising from actions of KCP&L employees in operating GMO’s properties and providing other services to GMO. KCP&L’s claims for reimbursement for services provided to GMO are unsecured and rank equally with other unsecured obligations of GMO. KCP&L’s ability to be reimbursed for the costs incurred for the benefit of GMO depends on the financial ability of GMO to make such payments. Customer and Weather-Related Risks: Severe weather and changes in customer demand due to sustained financial market disruptions, downturns or sluggishness in the economy, weather conditions or otherwise may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Great Plains Energy and KCP&L can be materially affected by changes in weather and customer demand. KCP&L and GMO estimate customer demand based on historical trends to procure fuel and purchased power. Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy 16 generally affect the markets in which KCP&L and GMO operate. KCP&L’s electricity sales volume declined in 2008 compared to 2007, and retail demand for KCP&L and GMO is expected to be lower in 2009 than it was in 2008 assuming normal weather conditions. If the current financial market disruptions or economic downturn continue or worsen, overall electricity sales volumes may further decline and/or bad debt expense may increase, which could materially affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. KCP&L and GMO are significantly impacted by seasonality, with approximately one-third of their retail electric revenues recorded in the third quarter. Unusually mild winter or summer weather can adversely affect sales. In addition, severe weather, including but not limited to tornados, snow, rain and ice storms can be destructive causing outages and property damage that can potentially result in additional expenses and lower revenues. Some of KCP&L’s and GMO’s stations use water from the Missouri River for cooling purposes. Low water and flow levels, which have been experienced in recent years, can increase maintenance costs at these stations and, if these levels were to get low enough, could cause modifications to plant operations. Integration and Operational Risks: Only a portion of the costs associated with the GMO acquisition will be recovered through utility rates, and the expected cost benefits of the GMO transaction may not be realized, which could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The MPSC order approving the GMO transaction provides that the transaction costs will not be recovered through utility rates, and that the Missouri jurisdictional portion of transition costs (estimated to be $33.1 million at December 31, 2008) will be eligible for recovery through utility rates only to the extent the costs are offset by benefits resulting from the acquisition. The KCC order approving the GMO transaction limited KCP&L’s recovery of transition costs through Kansas rates to $10.0 million. At December 31, 2008, Great Plains Energy had $43.1 million of regulatory assets related to transition costs, which included $25.5 million at KCP&L and $17.6 million at GMO. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L expect to achieve various benefits, including cost savings and operating efficiencies in connection with the acquisition. Approximately half of the total estimated cost savings over the first five years following the GMO acquisition are expected to come from reductions in GMO’s corporate overhead and other costs that are not being recovered, and are not expected to be recovered, through utility rates. If these costs are not able to be eliminated as anticipated, Great Plains Energy’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be negatively impacted. The benefits of integrating KCP&L’s and GMO’s utility businesses may be less than expected, which could adversely affect the Company’s regulatory treatment and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L expect to achieve synergies through the ongoing integration of KCP&L and GMO utility operations. This integration poses significant challenges due to the size and complexity of each organization. The Company has dedicated substantial efforts and resources since the GMO acquisition was announced to plan for and implement an efficient and successful integration of utility operations. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L believe that the anticipated benefits will be achieved. However, there is no assurance that the utility operations integration will be completed successfully or in a timely manner, or result in the anticipated benefits. Failure to achieve the anticipated cost reductions or customer service levels could result in adverse regulatory actions and could negatively affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 17 Operations risks may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The operation of KCP&L’s and GMO’s electric generation, transmission and distribution systems involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment, processes and personnel performance; problems that delay or increase the cost of returning facilities to service after outages, operating limitations that may be imposed by equipment conditions, environmental, safety or other regulatory requirements; fuel supply or fuel transportation reductions or interruptions; transmission scheduling constraints; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, severe weather or other similar occurrences. An equipment outage or constraint can: · in the case of generation equipment, directly affect operating costs, increase capital needs and costs, increase purchased power needs and costs and reduce wholesale sales opportunities; · in the case of transmission equipment, affect operating costs, increase capital needs and costs, require changes in the source of generation and affect wholesale sales opportunities; and · in the case of distribution systems, affect revenues and operating costs, increase capital needs and costs, and affect the ability to meet regulatory service metrics and customer expectations. With the exception of Hawthorn No. 5, which was substantially rebuilt in 2001, all of KCP&L’s coal-fired generating units and its nuclear generating unit were constructed prior to 1986. All of GMO’s coal-fired generating units were constructed prior to 1984. The age of these generating units increases the risk of unplanned outages and higher maintenance expense. Training, preventive maintenance and other programs have been implemented, but there is no assurance that these programs will prevent or minimize future breakdowns or failures of KCP&L’s or GMO’s generation facilities. KCP&L and GMO currently have general liability and property insurance in place to cover their facilities in amounts that management considers appropriate. These policies; however, do not cover KCP&L’s or GMO’s transmission or distribution systems, and the cost of repairing damage to these systems may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s or KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and generally do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of KCP&L’s or GMO’s facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage. These and other operating events may reduce Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s revenues, increase their costs, or both, and may materially affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The cost and schedule of construction projects may materially change and expected performance may not be achieved. KCP&L’s and GMO’s businesses are capital intensive, and require significant capital investments to maintain existing facilities, for projected environmental projects and to add new facilities, including Iatan No. 2, an estimated 850 MW (of which electric utility’s share is 620 MW) coal-fired generating plant. The acquisition of GMO by Great Plains Energy increases Great Plains Energy’s exposure to the risks associated with the ongoing Iatan construction project. The risks of any construction project include the possibilities that actual costs may exceed current estimates, delays may occur in obtaining permits and materials, suppliers and contractors may not perform as required under their contracts, there may be inadequate availability or increased cost of qualified craft labor, the scope and timing of projects may change, and that other events beyond KCP&L’s or GMO’s control may occur that may materially affect the schedule, cost and performance of these projects. The demand for additional environmental control equipment has increased substantially with many utilities in the United States starting similar projects to address changing environmental regulations. This demand has constrained labor and material resources for such projects, and there is a risk that such constraints may increase if new laws or regulations, including limitations on greenhouse gas emissions, are imposed. 18 These and other risks could materially increase the estimated costs of construction projects, delay the in-service dates of projects, adversely affect the performance of the projects, and/or require KCP&L or GMO to purchase additional electricity to supply their respective retail customers until the projects are completed. KCP&L and GMO are not permitted to start recovering the costs of these projects until they are completed and put into service. Thus, these risks may significantly affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Failure of one or more generation plant co-owners to pay their share of construction, operations and maintenance costs could increase Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s costs and capital requirements. KCP&L owns 47% of Wolf Creek, 50% of LaCygne Station, 70% of Iatan No. 1 and 55% of Iatan No. 2. GMO owns 18% of both Iatan units and 8% of Jeffrey Energy Center. The remaining portions of these facilities are owned by other utilities that are contractually obligated to pay their proportionate share of capital and other costs and, in the case of Iatan No. 2, construction costs. While the ownership agreements provide that a defaulting co-owner’s share of the electricity generated can be sold by the non-defaulting co-owners, there is no assurance that the revenues received will recover the increased costs borne by the non-defaulting co-owners. The Iatan No. 2 co-owners have provided financial assurances related to their respective construction cost obligations, but there is a risk that such assurances may not be sufficient in the event of a co-owner default. During the construction period, the Iatan No. 2 agreements provide for re-allocations of part or all of a defaulting co-owner’s share of the facility to the non-defaulting owners, which would increase the capital requirements, operations and maintenance costs of the non-defaulting owners. Occurrence of these or other events could materially increase Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s costs and capital requirements. An aging workforce and increasing demand for skilled craft labor poses operational and planning challenges. Through 2012, approximately 22% of KCP&L employees (who manage both KCP&L and GMO operations) will be eligible to retire with full pension benefits. This is a general industry issue, which has increased the demand for and cost of skilled craft labor for both companies and contractors. KCP&L and GMO use contractors for a substantial portion of their construction and maintenance work. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s businesses. Commodity Price Risks: Changes in commodity prices could have an adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. KCP&L and GMO engage in the wholesale and retail marketing of electricity and are exposed to risks associated with the price of electricity. KCP&L and GMO generate, purchase and sell electricity in the retail and wholesale markets. To the extent that exposure to the price of electricity is not successfully hedged, Great Plains Energy and KCP&L could experience losses associated with the changing market price for electricity. Increases in fuel, fuel transportation and purchased power prices could have an adverse impact on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s costs. KCP&L’s Kansas retail rates contain an energy cost adjustment (ECA) mechanism. KCP&L’s Missouri retail rates do not contain a similar provision. GMO’s retail electric rates contain a fuel adjustment clause mechanism under which 95% of the difference between actual fuel and purchased power costs and the amount of fuel and purchased power costs provided in base rates is passed along to GMO’s customers. GMO’s steam rates contain a quarterly cost adjustment under which 80% of the difference between actual fuel costs and base fuel costs is passed along to GMO’s steam customers. As a result, KCP&L and GMO are exposed to varying degrees of risk from changes in the market prices of coal, natural gas, nuclear fuel 19 and purchased power. Changes in KCP&L’s or GMO’s fuel mix due to electricity demand, plant availability, transportation issues, fuel prices, fuel availability and other factors can also adversely affect KCP&L’s or GMO’s fuel and purchased power costs. KCP&L and GMO do not hedge their respective entire exposure from fuel and transportation price volatility. Forward prices for coal have increased, principally due to international demand, and management expects prices will continue to increase. The majority of KCP&L’s and GMO’s rail transportation contracts expire in 2010. KCP&L and GMO will pay tariff rates after 2010, which are typically higher. Management also expects the cost of nuclear fuel to increase significantly in 2010. Consequently, Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially impacted by changes in these prices until increased costs are recovered in Missouri retail rates. Wholesale electricity sales affect revenues, creating earnings volatility. The levels of KCP&L and GMO wholesale sales depend on the wholesale market price, transmission availability and the availability of generation for wholesale sales, among other factors. A substantial portion of wholesale sales are made in the spot market, and thus KCP&L and GMO have immediate exposure to wholesale price changes. Wholesale power prices can be volatile and generally increase in times of high regional demand and high natural gas prices. While an allocated portion of wholesale sales are reflected in KCP&L’s Kansas ECA, GMO’s and KCP&L’s Missouri rates are set on an estimated amount of wholesale sales. KCP&L and GMO will not recover any shortfall in non-firm wholesale electric sales margin and for KCP&L, any amount above the level reflected in Missouri retail rates will be returned to Missouri retail customers in a future rate case. Declines in wholesale market price or availability of generation or transmission constraints in the wholesale markets could reduce KCP&L’s and GMO's wholesale sales. These events could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. KCP&L is exposed to risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, which could result in an adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s business and financial results. KCP&L owns 47% of Wolf Creek. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities, including Wolf Creek. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, shut down the facilities, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Any revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could result in substantial capital expenditures at Wolf Creek. Wolf Creek has the lowest fuel cost per MWh of any of KCP&L's generating units. An extended outage of Wolf Creek, whether resulting from NRC action, an incident at the plant or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse effect on KCP&L's results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the event KCP&L incurs higher replacement power and other costs that are not recovered through rates. If a long-term outage occurred, the state regulatory commissions could reduce rates by excluding the Wolf Creek investment from rate base. Ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit exposes KCP&L to risks regarding decommissioning costs at the end of the unit's life. KCP&L contributes annually to a tax-qualified trust fund to be used to decommission Wolf Creek. The funding level assumes a projected level of return on trust assets. If the actual return on trust assets is below the projected level, KCP&L could be responsible for the balance of funds required; however, should this happen, management believes a rate increase would be allowed ensuring full recovery of decommissioning costs over the remaining life of the unit. 20 KCP&L is also exposed to other risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, including, but not limited to, potential liability associated with the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of a nuclear generating unit and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, and to potential retrospective assessments and losses in excess of insurance coverage. Any such risks could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Litigation Risks: The outcome of legal proceedings cannot be predicted. An adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s financial condition. Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and GMO are party to various material litigation and regulatory matters arising out of their business operations. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined, nor, in many cases, can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case presently be reasonably estimated. The liability that Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and GMO may ultimately incur with respect to any of these cases in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and insured against with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 ITEM 