ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. However, certain assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in market interest rates. Further, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types of assets may lag behind. Additionally, some assets such as adjustable-rate mortgages have features and rate caps which restrict changes in their interest rates. Factors such as inflation, recession, unemployment, fluctuations in the money supply, global disorder such as that experienced as a result of the terrorist activity on September 11, 2001, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and other factors beyond the Company’s control may affect interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on loans and the receipt of payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may have to be 7 Table of Contents reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid. Although the Company pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in market interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, if rates paid on deposits and borrowings reprice more quickly than the assets, the Company would experience further compression of its net interest spread and net interest margin. If the Company has higher loan losses than it has allowed for, its earnings could materially decrease. The Company’s loan customers may not repay loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company may therefore experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, the Company relies on its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions. If one or more of the assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio and adjustment may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Company to significantly increase the level of its provision for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially reduce the Company’s net income and could adversely affect its financial condition. A significant amount of the Company’s loans are concentrated in northeastern Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire, and adverse conditions in this area could negatively impact its operations. Substantially all of the loans the Company originates are secured by properties located in or are made to businesses which operate in northeastern Massachusetts or southern New Hampshire. Because of the current concentration of the Company’s loan origination activities in northeastern Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire, in the event of adverse economic conditions, downward pressure on housing prices, political or business developments or natural hazards adversely affecting northeastern Massachusetts or southern New Hampshire and the ability of property owners and businesses in that area to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying loans, the Company would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on its loans than if its loans were more geographically diversified. Such higher rates of loss and delinquency could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely impacted by changes in law and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See Supervision and Regulation in Item 1 hereof, Business. Any change in the laws or regulations or failure by the Company to comply with applicable law and regulation, or change in regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Division, the FDIC, the FRB, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress, or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company has strong competition within its market area which may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. See Competition in Item 1 hereof, Business. Commercial banks, credit unions, savings banks and savings and loan associations operating in our primary market area have historically provided most of our competition for deposits. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans comes from other commercial, savings and cooperative banks, thrift institutions, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies. The success of the Company is dependent on retaining certain key personnel or attracting and retaining additional, qualified personnel. The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The Company relies on key personnel, including executive officers, to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as loan and deposit generation. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and manage these functions effectively, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Company’s net income. The Company’s continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. The Company continues to encounter technological change, and may have fewer resources than many of its larger competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to serve their customers better and to reduce costs. The Company’s success will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of the Company’s larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of its revenue. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds used to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. Various federal and state laws and regulations 8 Table of Contents limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, then the Company will be unable to pay its obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. When the Company becomes subject to SEC requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, it will likely incur significant costs in connection with first providing internal control reports. Under current SEC regulations, as a “non-accelerated filer” under the federal securities laws, the Company will become subject to SEC requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Section 404 requires that the Company prepare a management report on its internal control over financial reporting and obtain an attestation on that report from its auditors in connection with its most recent consolidated financial statements included with its annual report. During the past several years, many SEC reporting companies have incurred significant costs in connection with first providing internal control reports. The Company will likely incur significant costs in connection with first providing internal control reports. These costs may be greater for the Company than for other comparable companies because the Company has changed its accounting firm effective for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. If the Company does incur such costs, the costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. When the Company becomes subject to SEC requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, if its internal control reports disclose significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, its stockholders and lenders could lose confidence in its financial reporting, which would likely harm the trading price of its stock, its access to additional capital, and its liquidity. During the past several years, various SEC reporting companies, when first providing internal control reports, disclosed significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in their internal control over financial reporting. If the Company’s internal control reports disclose significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, the Company’s stockholders could lose confidence in its financial reporting, which would likely harm the trading price of its stock, its access to additional capital, and its liquidity. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 