ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. However, certain assets and liabilities may react 8 Table of Contents differently to changes in market interest rates. Further, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types of assets may lag behind. Additionally, some assets such as adjustable-rate mortgages have features and rate caps which restrict changes in their interest rates. Factors such as inflation, recession, unemployment, fluctuations in the money supply, global disorder such as that experienced as a result of the terrorist activity on September 11, 2001, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and other factors beyond the Company’s control may affect interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on loans and the receipt of payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may have to be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid. Although the Company pursues an asset-liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in market interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, if rates paid on deposits and borrowings reprice more quickly than the assets in a rising interest rate environment, the Company would experience a compression of its net interest spread and net interest margin. Alternatively, in a declining interest rate environment, if assets reprice more quickly than its liabilities, net interest margin compression would occur. If the Company has higher loan losses than it has allowed for, its earnings could materially decrease. The Company’s loan customers may not repay loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company may therefore experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the size of the allowance for loan losses, the Company relies on its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions. If one or more of the assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio and adjustment may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Company to significantly increase the level of its provision for loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially reduce the Company’s net income and could adversely affect its financial condition. Moreover, when a loan is placed on non-accrual status, all interest previously accrued but not collected is reversed against current period interest income. A significant amount of the Company’s loans are concentrated in northeastern Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire, and adverse conditions in this area could negatively impact its operations. Substantially all of the loans the Company originates are secured by properties located in or are made to businesses which operate in northeastern Massachusetts or southern New Hampshire. Because of the current concentration of the Company’s loan origination activities in northeastern Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire, in the event of adverse economic conditions, downward pressure on housing prices, political or business developments or natural hazards adversely affecting northeastern Massachusetts or southern New Hampshire and the ability of property owners and businesses in that area to make payments of principal and interest on the underlying loans, could cause the Company to experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on its loans than if its loans were more geographically diversified. Additionally, a decline in real estate values generally, or in northeastern Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire specifically, could cause some of our real estate loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose the Company to a greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could result in a decline in the origination of such loans. Such higher rates of loss and delinquency and declines in real estate values could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely impacted by changes in law and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See Supervision and Regulation in Item 1 hereof, Business. Due to the current economic climate, we may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Any change in the laws or regulations or failure by the Company to comply with applicable law and regulation, or change in regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Division, the FDIC, the FRB, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress, or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company’s FDIC premiums have materially increased and could continue to do so, which could materially affect the Company’s earnings. FDIC insurance premiums would have been $230,000 in 2008, however the Company was able to apply credits of $175,000 resulting in a net expense of $55,000. In December, 2008, the FDIC board approved a 7 basis points (“bps”) increase in premiums charged to banks for deposit insurance, boosting the rate to between 12 cents and 50 cents per $100 of domestic deposits from a range of five cents to 43 cents due to market developments that have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC passed an interim rule that allows it to charge banks a special assessment of 20 bps on insured deposits to replenish the deposit insurance fund. This special assessment will be collected in the third quarter of 2009. Additionally, beginning April 1, 2009, the FDIC will increase its base fees on insured deposits, the combination of which would increase the Company’s 2009 deposit insurance premiums to approximately $1.2 million. See “Federal Deposit Insurance Premiums” in Supervision and Regulation in Item I hereof, Business, for more information on the FDIC insurance premiums. There can be no assurance that the Company’s FDIC premiums will not increase further and, if so, that its earnings would not materially decrease as a result. 9 Table of Contents The impact on the Company of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and their implementing regulations as well as the President’s Financial Stability Plan, and the Company’s participation in programs thereunder, cannot be predicted at this time. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the U.S. government has responded to the ongoing financial crisis and economic slowdown by enacting new legislation and expanding or establishing a number of programs and initiatives. The Treasury, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board each have developed programs and facilities, including the CPP and other efforts designed to increase inter-bank lending, improve funding for consumer receivables and restore consumer and counterparty confidence in the banking sector. In addition, the recently enacted ARRA is intended to expand and establish government spending programs and provide tax cuts to stimulate the economy. Congress and the U.S. government continue to evaluate and develop various programs and initiatives designed to stabilize the financial and housing markets and stimulate the economy, including the Treasury’s recently announced Financial Stability Plan and the government’s recently announced foreclosure prevention program. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company has participated in the CPP, but has opted not the participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The effects of participating or not participating in any such programs and the extent of the Company’s participation in such programs cannot be determined at this time. The impact of further contemplated legislative and regulatory changes cannot be predicted at this time. The Obama Administration and Congress are actively considering a broad restructuring of the regulatory landscape for financial institutions. On March 5, 2009, House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank issued the following statement, “While we will continue to work with the Obama Administration on stabilization, it is now essential that we continue work on our reform agenda and address the need for financial regulatory restructuring to diminish systemic risk and to enhance market integrity.” The Company cannot reliably predict at this time whether any of these legislative initiatives will be enacted, and if so, what impact, if any, it would have on the Company’s financial condition, operating results or business. The terms governing the issuance of the Preferred Stock to the Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Securities Purchase Agreement that was entered into with the Treasury provides that the Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the agreement to the extent required to comply with any change in applicable federal statutes that may occur in the future. The ARRA placed more stringent limits on executive compensation than were applicable at the time the Company entered into the Securities Purchase Agreement, including a prohibition on the payment of bonuses and severance to certain officers and a requirement that compensation paid to our executives be presented annually to shareholders in a “non-binding” vote. There can be no assurance that further changes in the terms of the transaction will not occur in the future. Such changes may place further restrictions on the Company’s business or results of operation, which may adversely affect the market price of its common stock. The Company has strong competition within its market area which may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. See Competition in Item 1 hereof, Business. Commercial banks, credit unions, savings banks and savings and loan associations operating in our primary market area have historically provided most of our competition for deposits. Mutual funds and internet-only bank providers contribute additional competition in the quest for deposits. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans comes from other commercial, savings and cooperative banks, thrift institutions, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies. The success of the Company is dependent on retaining certain key personnel or attracting and retaining additional, qualified personnel. The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The Company relies on key personnel, including executive officers, to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as loan and deposit generation. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and manage these functions effectively, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Company’s net income. The Company’s continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. The limitations on executive compensation imposed through the Company’s participation in the Capital Purchase Program may restrict its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, which could adversely affect our operations. As part of the CPP transaction, the Company agreed to be bound by certain executive compensation restrictions, including limitations on severance payments and the clawback of any bonus and incentive compensation that were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria. Subsequent to the issuance of the Senior Preferred, the ARRA imposed more stringent limitations on severance pay and the payment of bonuses. To the extent that these compensation restrictions do not permit the Company to provide a comprehensive compensation package to our key employees that is competitive in its market area, the Company may have difficulty in attracting, retaining and motivating key employees, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. 10 Table of Contents The Company continues to encounter technological change, and may have fewer resources than many of its larger competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to serve their customers better and to reduce costs. The Company’s success will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of the Company’s larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of its revenue. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds used to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, then the Company will be unable to pay its obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Market fluctuations and changes in interest rates have had, and may continue to have, significant and negative effects on the Company’s investment portfolio and stockholders’ equity. The Company’s results of operations depend in part on the performance of its invested assets. The Company had an investment portfolio with a fair value of $264.6 million at December 31, 2008, that is subject to: • market value risk, which is the risk that invested assets will decrease in value due to a change in the prevailing market yields on our investments, an unfavorable change in the liquidity of an investment or an unfavorable change in the financial prospects or a downgrade in the credit rating of the issuer of an investment or one or more other factors; • reinvestment risk, which is the risk that interest rates will decline, an investment will be redeemed and the Company will not be able to reinvest the proceeds in a comparable investment that provides a yield equal to or greater than the investment which was redeemed; and • liquidity risk, which is the risk that the Company may have to sell assets at an undesirable time and/or price to provide funds for its business. If the Company’s investment portfolio were to be impaired by market or issuer-specific conditions to a substantial degree, its liquidity, financial position and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Management may assess a decline in fair value as being temporary when in fact it is other-than-temporary and, consequently, not charge the impairment to the Company’s earnings, which could have a significant impact on its future operating results. The carrying values of investment securities available for sale are derived from market prices supplied by the Company’s investment custodian or, when no price is provided by the custodian, from a third party valuation. Fair value is based on quoted market prices. Unrealized investment gains and losses on such securities, to the extent that there is no “other-than-temporary impairment” of value, are credited or charged, net of any tax effect, to a separate component of stockholders’ equity, known as “net accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),” until realized. If a security is deemed other-than-temporarily impaired, management would adjust the security’s cost basis to fair value through a realized loss on the income statement. After a security has been written down for an other-than-temporary impairment, the new cost basis is used thereafter to determine the amount of any unrealized holding gains and losses which are credited or charged, net of any tax effect, to net accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), until realized. Management considers available evidence in evaluating whether unrealized losses on individual securities are other-than-temporary. This evaluation often involves estimating the outcome of future events and judgment is required in determining whether factors exist that indicate that an impairment loss has been incurred at the date of the financial statements. These factors are both subjective and objective and include knowledge and experience about past and current events and assumptions about future events. Management’s knowledge about past and current events regarding a security and its issuer may be incomplete, or its assumptions about future events regarding a security and its issue may prove to be incorrect. Accordingly, there is a risk that management may assess a decline in fair value as being temporary when in fact it is other-than-temporary, or subsequent events occur that cause management to conclude that a decline in fair value is other than temporary, resulting in an impairment charge that could have a significant impact on the Company’s future operating results and financial condition. When the Company becomes subject to the full SEC requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, it will likely incur significant costs in connection with first providing internal control reports. Under current SEC regulations, as a “smaller reporting company” under the federal securities laws, the Company became subject to the management reporting component for its year ended December 31, 2007 and will become subject to the outside auditors’ attestation component of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for its year ending December 31, 2009. Section 404 requires that the Company prepare a management 11 Table of Contents report on its internal control over financial reporting and obtain an attestation on that report from its auditors in connection with its most recent consolidated financial statements included with its annual report. During the past several years, many SEC reporting companies have incurred significant costs in connection with first providing internal control reports. The Company will likely incur significant costs in connection with obtaining the outside auditors’ attestation report of the Company’s internal control reports. If the Company does incur such costs, the costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. When the Company becomes subject to the full SEC requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, if its internal control reports disclose significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, its stockholders and lenders could lose confidence in its financial reporting, which would likely harm the trading price of its stock, its access to additional capital, and its liquidity. During the past several years, various SEC reporting companies, when first providing internal control reports, disclosed significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in their internal control over financial reporting. If the Company’s internal control reports disclose material weaknesses, the Company’s stockholders could lose confidence in its financial reporting, which would likely harm the trading price of its stock, its access to additional capital, and its liquidity. If the Company’s investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston becomes impaired, its earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. The Company is required to own common stock of the FHLBB to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBB’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of the FHLBB common stock as of December 31, 2008 was $11.8 million based on its cost. FHLBB common stock is not a marketable security. The FHLBB has reported a net loss of $73.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily attributable to a $339.1 million charge related to the other-than-temporary impairment of certain private-label mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2008. Further, the FHLBB has voted to suspend dividends for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and has disclosed that, based on current information, dividend payments in 2009 are unlikely. These and other developments could put into question whether the fair value of FHLBB stock owned by the Company was less than its carrying value. Consequently, the Company believes that there is a risk that its investment in FHLBB common stock could be deemed impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause its earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the amount of the impairment charge. The tightening of available liquidity could limit the Company’s ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect its earnings and capital levels. A tightening of the credit market and the inability to obtain adequate money to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, therefore earnings capability, and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely on certain wholesale funding sources and uncommitted FHLBB advances to fund loans and replace deposits. In the event of a further downturn in the economy, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected which could limit the funds available to the Company. FHLBB has publicly disclosed that, over time, current market trends may have a negative impact on FHLBB’s own liquidity. Further, the twelve Federal Home Loan Banks are jointly and severally liable for each other’s debt, which means that the FHLBB’s liquidity could be adversely affected by losses, capital weaknesses or other financial problems at one or more of other regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Company’s liquidity position would be significantly constrained if we were unable to access funds from the FHLBB or other funding sources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Table of Contents 