Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of significant risks and other factors relating to our structure and investment objectives. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives. You should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. Risks related to economic conditions The current state of the economy and the capital markets increases the possibility of adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. Continued economic adversity could impair our portfolio companies' financial positions and operating results and affect the industries in which we invest, which could, in turn, harm our operating results. Continued adversity in the capital markets could impact our ability to raise capital and reduce our volume of new investments. The United States has entered into an economic downturn. The economic downturn generally and the disruptions in the capital markets in particular have decreased liquidity and increased our cost of debt and equity capital, where available. The longer these conditions persist, the greater the probability that these factors could continue to increase our costs and significantly limit our access to debt and equity capital, and thus have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Many of the companies in which we have made or will make investments may also be susceptible to the economic downturn, which may affect the ability of one or more of our portfolio companies to repay our loans or engage in a liquidity event, such as a sale, recapitalization or initial public offering. An economic downturn could also disproportionately impact some of the industries in which we invest, causing us to be more vulnerable to losses in our portfolio, therefore the number of our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the fair market value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. The economic downturn may also decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans as well as the value of our equity investments which would decrease our ability to borrow under our credit facility or raise equity capital thereby reducing our ability to make new investments. The economic downturn has affected the availability of credit generally and may prevent us from replacing or renewing our credit facility on reasonable terms, if at all. We do not know when market conditions will stabilize, if 21 adverse conditions will intensify or the full extent to which the disruptions will affect us. Also, it is possible that continued instability of the financial markets could have other, unforeseen material effects on our business. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results based on the impact of inflation in the United States. The majority of our portfolio companies are in industries that are directly impacted by inflation, such as manufacturing and consumer goods and services. Our portfolio companies may not be able to pass on to customers increases in their costs of production which could greatly affect their operating results, impacting their ability to repay our loans. In addition, any projected future decreases in our portfolio companies' operating results due to inflation could adversely impact the fair value of those investments. Any decreases in the fair value of our investments could result in future unrealized losses and therefore reduce our net assets resulting from operations. Risks related to our external management We are dependent upon our key management personnel and the key management personnel of our Adviser, particularly David Gladstone, George Stelljes III and Terry Lee Brubaker, and on the continued operations of our Adviser, for our future success. We have no employees. Our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief investment officer and chief financial officer, and the employees of our Adviser, do not spend all of their time managing our activities and our investment portfolio. We are particularly dependent upon David Gladstone, George Stelljes III and Terry Lee Brubaker in this regard. Our executive officers and the employees of our Adviser allocate some, and in some cases a material portion, of their time to businesses and activities that are not related to our business. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our Adviser, which has significant discretion as to the implementation and execution of our business strategies and risk management practices. We are subject to the risk of discontinuation of our Adviser's operations or termination of the investment advisory agreement and the risk that, upon such event, no suitable replacement will be found. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon our Adviser and that discontinuation of its operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Our incentive fee may induce our Adviser to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The management compensation structure that has been implemented under the Amended Advisory Agreement with our Adviser may cause our Adviser to invest in high-risk investments or take other risks. In addition to its management fee, our Adviser is entitled under the Amended Advisory Agreement to receive incentive compensation based in part upon our achievement of specified levels of income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead our Adviser to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining sufficient liquidity, or management of credit risk or market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio. We may be obligated to pay our Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. The Amended Advisory Agreement entitles our Adviser to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation, net operating losses and certain other items) above a threshold return for that quarter. When calculating our incentive compensation, our pre-incentive fee net investment income excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal 22 quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. For additional information on incentive compensation under the Amended Advisory Agreement with our Adviser, see "Business—Investment Advisory and Management Agreements—Management services and fees under the Amended Advisory Agreement." Our Adviser's failure to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria or perform its responsibilities under the Amended Advisory Agreement may adversely affect our ability for future growth. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to grow, which in turn will depend on our Adviser's ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our Adviser's structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior management team of our Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the Amended Advisory Agreement. In order to grow, our Adviser will need to hire, train, supervise, and manage new employees successfully. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could affect our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and the officers and directors of our Adviser, serve or may serve as officers, directors, or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, Mr. Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of our Adviser, Gladstone Investment, and Gladstone Commercial. In addition, Mr. Brubaker, our vice chairman, chief operating officer, and secretary is the vice chairman, chief operating officer and secretary of our Adviser, Gladstone Investment, and Gladstone Commercial. Mr. Stelljes, our president and chief investment officer, is also the president and chief investment officer, of our Adviser and Gladstone Commercial and vice chairman and chief investment officer of Gladstone Investment. Moreover, our Adviser may establish or sponsor other investment vehicles which from time to time may have potentially overlapping investment objectives with those of ours and accordingly may invest in, whether principally or secondarily, asset classes similar to those we targeted. While our Adviser generally has broad authority to make investments on behalf of the investment vehicles that it advises, our Adviser has adopted investment allocation procedures to address these potential conflicts and intends to direct investment opportunities to the Gladstone affiliate with the investment strategy that most closely fits the investment opportunity. Nevertheless, the management of our Adviser may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to other entities managed by our Adviser. As a result, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by other members of the Gladstone Companies or investment funds managed by investment managers affiliated with our Adviser. In certain circumstances, we may make investments in a portfolio company in which one of our affiliates has or will have an investment, subject to satisfaction of any regulatory restrictions and, where required, to the prior approval of our Board of Directors. As of September 30, 2008, our Board of Directors has approved the following types of co-investment transactions: •Our affiliate, Gladstone Commercial, may lease property to portfolio companies that we do not control under certain circumstances. We may pursue such transactions only if (i) the portfolio company is not controlled by us or any of our affiliates, (ii) the portfolio company satisfies the tenant underwriting criteria of Gladstone Commercial, and (iii) the transaction is approved by a 23 majority of our independent directors and a majority of the independent directors of Gladstone Commercial. We expect that any such negotiations between Gladstone Commercial and our portfolio companies would result in lease terms consistent with the terms that the portfolio companies would be likely to receive were they not portfolio companies of ours. •We may invest simultaneously with our affiliate Gladstone Investment in senior syndicated loans whereby neither we nor any affiliate has the ability to dictate the terms of the loans. Certain of our officers, who are also officers of our Adviser, may from time to time serve as directors of certain of our portfolio companies. If an officer serves in such capacity with one of our portfolio companies, such officer will owe fiduciary duties to all shareholders of the portfolio company, which duties may from time to time conflict with the interests of our stockholders. In the course of our investing activities, we will pay management and incentive fees to our Adviser and will reimburse our Administrator for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a "gross" basis and receive distributions on a "net" basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through our investors themselves making direct investments. As a result of this arrangement, there may be times when the management team of our Adviser has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Our Adviser is not obligated to provide a waiver of the base management and incentive fees, which could negatively affect our earnings and our ability to maintain or increase our current level of distributions to our stockholders. The Amended Advisory Agreement provides for a base management fee based on our total assets. During each quarter of our 2008 fiscal year, our Board of Directors has accepted a voluntary waiver to reduce the annual 2.0% base management fee on senior syndicated loan participations to 0.5% to the extent that proceeds resulting from borrowings were used to purchase such syndicated loan participations for each quarter of our 2008 fiscal year. However, our Adviser is not required to issue this or other waivers of fees under the Amended Advisory Agreement, which we expect will continue to increase as our investment portfolio grows. If our Adviser does not issue this waiver in future quarters, it could negatively impact our earnings and may compromise our ability to maintain our current level of, or increase, distributions to our stockholders, which could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. In addition to providing for a base management fee based on our total assets, this agreement contemplates a quarterly incentive fee based on our pre-incentive fee net investment income and an annual incentive fee based on our capital gains, if any. Our Adviser has the ability to issue a full or partial waiver of the incentive fee for current and future periods and has issued a full waiver for each quarter of our 2008 fiscal year. However our Adviser is not required to issue this waiver. If our Adviser does not issue a waiver in future quarters, it could negatively affect our earnings and may compromise our ability to maintain or increases our current level of distributions to our stockholders, which could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. Our business model is dependent upon developing and sustaining strong referral relationships with leveraged buyout funds, venture capital funds, and traditional lending institutions. We are dependent upon informal relationships with leveraged buyout funds, venture capital funds, and traditional lending institutions to provide us with deal flow. If we fail to maintain our relationship with such funds or institutions, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other funds, we will not be able to grow our portfolio of loans and fully execute our business plan. 24 Risks related to our external financing Any ability to renew our credit facility on terms favorable to us, if at all, could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to fund new investments. Availability under our credit facility will terminate on May 21, 2009. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to renew, extend or replace the credit facility on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to obtain replacement financing will be constrained by current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to renew, extend or refinance the credit facility, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments. In addition to regulatory limitations on our ability to raise capital, our credit facility contains various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate our repayment obligations under the facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. The agreement governing our credit facility requires us to comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants require us to, among other things, maintain certain financial ratios, including asset coverage, debt to equity and interest coverage, and a minimum net worth. As of September 30, 2008, we were in compliance with these covenants. However, our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. In particular, depreciation in the valuation of our assets, which valuation is subject to changing market conditions which are presently very volatile, affects our ability to comply with these covenants. During the year ended September 30, 2008, net unrealized depreciation on our investments was approximately $47.0 million, compared to $7.4 million during the prior year. Given the further deterioration in the capital markets and pricing levels subsequent to this period, net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio may continue to increase in future periods and threaten our ability to comply with the covenants under our credit facility. Accordingly, there are no assurances that we will continue to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default which, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders, could accelerate our repayment obligations under the facility and thereby have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Our business plan is dependent upon external financing which is constrained by the limitations of the 1940 Act. Our business requires a substantial amount of cash to operate and grow. We may acquire such additional capital from the following sources: •Senior Securities. We intend to issue debt securities, other evidences of indebtedness (including borrowings under our line of credit) and possibly preferred stock, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act currently permits us, as a business development company, to issue debt securities and preferred stock, to which we refer collectively as senior securities, in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we will be exposed to the risks associated with leverage. Although borrowing money for investments increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of a loss. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a greater impact on the value of our common stock to the extent that we have borrowed money to make investments. There is a possibility that the costs of borrowing could exceed the income we receive on the investments we make with such borrowed funds. In addition, our ability to pay dividends or incur additional indebtedness would be restricted if asset coverage is not at least twice our indebtedness. If the value of our assets declines, we might be 25 unable to satisfy that test. If this happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our loan portfolio and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when a sale, to the extent possible given the limited market for many of our investments, may be disadvantageous. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness will not be available for distributions to our stockholders. •Common Stock. Because we are constrained in our ability to issue debt for the reasons given above, we are dependent on the issuance of equity as a financing source. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or debt securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance would decrease and our common stock may experience dilution. In addition, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences, and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. In addition, under the 1940 Act, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price below net asset value per share to purchasers other than our existing stockholders through a rights offering without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. This imposes constraints on our ability to raise capital when our common stock is trading below net asset value, as it has recently. •Securitization. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we anticipate that in the future we will securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy, and affect our profitability. Moreover, successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the loans in which we do not plan to sell interests will be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and our hedging strategy may expose us to additional risks. We anticipate using a combination of equity and long-term and short-term borrowings to finance our lending activities. As a result, a portion of our income will depend upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we loan these funds. Certain of our borrowings may be at fixed rates and others at variable rates. Ultimately, we expect approximately 20% of the loans in our portfolio to be at fixed rates and approximately 80% to be at variable rates determined on the basis of a benchmark prime rate. As of September 30, 2008, our portfolio had approximately 69% of the total of the loan cost value at variable rates with a floor, approximately 2% of the total loan cost value at variable rates with a floor and ceiling, approximately 3% of the total loan cost value at fixed rates, and the remaining 26% at variable rates. Pursuant to our initial line of credit, we agreed to enter into an interest rate cap agreement, which is our only hedging transaction to date. In the event that we securitize a portion of our loan portfolio in the future, we believe that we will likely be required to enter into similar arrangements with respect to the securitized loans. While hedging activities may insulate us against adverse fluctuations in interest rates, they may also limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to receive payments pursuant to our interest rate cap agreement is linked to the ability of the counter-party to that agreement to make the required payments. To the extent that the counter-party to the agreement is unable to pay pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we may lose the hedging protection of the interest rate cap agreement. Our credit facility imposes certain limitations on us. We will have a continuing need for capital to finance our loans. In order to maintain RIC status, we will be required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary income and 26 short-term capital gains on an annual basis. Accordingly, such earnings will not be available to fund additional loans. Therefore, we are party to a credit agreement arranged by Deutsche Bank AG as the structuring agent. The agreement provides us with a revolving credit line facility of $300 million. In the future, borrowings outstanding on the credit line facility may be repaid with the proceeds we may receive from securitizing some or all of the loans in our portfolio for long-term funding. The line of credit facility will permit us to fund additional loans and investments as long as we are within the conditions set out in the credit agreement. As a result of the line of credit facility, we are subject to certain limitations on the type of loan investments we make, including restrictions on geographic concentrations, sector concentrations, loan size, payment frequency and status, and average life. Our failure to satisfy these limitations could result in foreclosure by our lenders which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks related to our investments We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us and make the types of investments that we seek to make in small and medium-sized privately owned businesses. We compete with a large number of private equity funds, leveraged buyout funds and venture capital funds, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds, and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our potential competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors" pricing, terms, and structure. However, if we match our competitors' pricing, terms, and structure, we may experience decreasing net interest income and increasing risk of credit loss. Our investments in small and medium-sized borrowers are extremely risky and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Loans to small and medium-sized borrowers are subject to a number of significant risks including the following: •Small and medium-sized businesses are likely to have greater exposure to economic downturns than larger businesses. We expect that our borrowers will have fewer resources than larger businesses and thus, the current state of the economy and any further economic downturns or recessions are more likely to have a material adverse effect on them. If one of our borrowers is adversely affected by an economic downturn, its ability to repay our loan would be diminished. •Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited financial resources and may not be able to repay the loans we make to them. Our strategy includes providing financing to borrowers that typically is not readily available to them. While we believe that this provides an attractive opportunity for us to generate profits, this may make it difficult for the portfolio companies to repay their loans to us upon maturity. A borrower's ability to repay its loan may be adversely 27 affected by numerous factors, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry, or negative economic conditions. A deterioration in a borrower's financial condition and prospects usually will be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained from the borrower's management. Although we will sometimes seek to be the senior, secured lender to a borrower, in most of our loans we expect to be subordinated to a senior lender, and our interest in any collateral would, accordingly, likely be subordinate to another lender's security interest. •Small and medium-sized businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. Because our target borrowers are smaller businesses, they will tend to be more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, our portfolio companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing, and other capabilities and a larger number of qualified managerial, and technical personnel. •There is generally little or no publicly available information about these businesses. Because we seek to make loans to privately owned businesses, there is generally little or no publicly available operating and financial information about our potential borrowers. As a result, we rely on our officers, our Adviser, and its employees and consultants to perform due diligence investigations of these borrowers, their operations, and their prospects. We may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses through our investigations. •Small and medium-sized businesses generally have less predictable operating results. We expect that our borrowers may have significant variations in their operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position, or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow, and other coverage tests typically imposed by their senior lenders. A borrower's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by senior lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, foreclosure on its senior credit facility, which could additionally trigger cross-defaults in other agreements. If this were to occur, it is possible that the borrower's ability to repay our loan would be jeopardized. •Small and medium-sized businesses are more likely to be dependent on one or two persons. Typically, the success of a small or medium-sized business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability, or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our borrower and, in turn, on us. •Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited operating histories. While we intend to target stable companies with proven track records, we may make loans to new companies that meet our other investment criteria. Portfolio companies with limited operating histories will be exposed to all of the operating risks that new businesses face and may be particularly susceptible to, among other risks, market downturns, competitive pressures and the departure of key executive officers. 28 Because a large percentage of the loans we make and equity securities we receive when we make loans are not publicly traded, there is uncertainty in the value of our privately held securities that could adversely affect our determination of our net asset value. A large percentage of our portfolio investments are, and will continue to be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. Our Board of Directors has established a valuation policy and consistently applied valuation procedures used to determine the fair value of these securities quarterly. These procedures for the determination of value of many of our debt securities rely on the opinions of value submitted to us by SPSE. SPSE will only evaluate the debt portion of our investments for which we specifically request evaluation, and SPSE may decline to make requested evaluations for any reason in its sole discretion. However, to date, SPSE has accepted each of our requests for evaluation. Our procedures also include provisions whereby our Adviser will establish the fair value of any equity securities we may hold where SPSE is unable to provide evaluations. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our debt and equity investments include some or all of the following: •the nature and realizable value of any collateral; •the portfolio company's earnings and cash flows and its ability to make payments on its obligations; •the markets in which the portfolio company does business; •the comparison to publicly traded companies; and •discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are not susceptible to precise determination, may fluctuate over short periods of time, and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ from the values that might have actually resulted had a readily available market for these securities been available. In the future, we anticipate that a small portion of our assets may consist of equity securities that are valued based on internal assessment using our own Board of Directors'-approved valuation methods, without the input of SPSE or any other third-party evaluator. We believe that our equity valuation methods reflect those regularly used as standards by other professionals in our industry who value equity securities. However, determination of fair value for securities that are not publicly traded, whether or not we use the recommendations of an independent third-party evaluator, necessarily involves the exercise of subjective judgment. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. The lack of liquidity of our privately held investments may adversely affect our business. Most of our investments presently consist of, and will continue to consist of, loans and warrants acquired in private transactions directly from borrowers or from the originators of loans to such borrowers. A substantial amount of all of the investments we presently hold and the investments we expect to acquire in the future will be, are subject to restrictions on resale, including, in some instances, legal restrictions, or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to quickly obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments if the need arises. This could cause us to miss important business opportunities. In addition, if we are required to quickly liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we 29 may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we, our Adviser, or our respective officers, employees, or affiliates have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing these securities, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would exist if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be materially affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that we ultimately realize on our disposal of such securities. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, which we expect will generally be the case, we may not be in a position to control the entity, and its management may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment. We anticipate that most of our investments will continue to be either debt or minority equity investments in our portfolio companies. Therefore, we are and will remain subject to risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the shareholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our best interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. In addition, we will generally not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. Our portfolio companies are likely to have debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in debt securities issued by our portfolio companies. In some cases portfolio companies will be permitted to have other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest and principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization, or bankruptcy of a portfolio company. Prepayments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. In addition to risks associated with delays in investing our capital, we are also subject to the risk that investments that we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. Of the 56 portfolio companies that we had investments in as of September 30, 2007, 5 prepaid ahead of maturity in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, which represented approximately 11% of total investments, at cost. We will first use any proceeds from prepayments to repay any borrowings outstanding on our line of credit. In the event that funds remain after repayment of our outstanding borrowings, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in government securities, pending their future investment in new debt securities. These government securities will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt securities being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively affect our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. 30 Higher taxation of our portfolio companies may affect our returns. The recession's adverse affect on states' and municipalities' revenues may induce these government entities to raise various state and local taxes to make up for lost revenues. Additional taxation may have an adverse affect on our portfolio companies' earnings and reduce their ability to repay our loans to them. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of companies and industries, which subjects us to an increased risk of significant loss if any one of these companies does not repay us or if the industries experience downturns. As of September 30, 2008 we had loans outstanding to 63 portfolio companies. A consequence of a limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be substantially adversely affected by the unfavorable performance of a small number of such loans or a substantial write-down of any one investment. Beyond our regulatory and income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for industry concentration and our investments could potentially be concentrated in relatively few industries. In addition, while we do not intend to invest 25% or more of our total assets in a particular industry or group of industries at the time of investment, it is possible that as the values of our portfolio companies change, one industry or a group of industries may comprise in excess of 25% of the value of our total assets. As of September 30, 2008, 18.0% of our total assets were invested in healthcare, education and childcare companies, 14.2% were invested in printing and publishing companies, and 12.3% were invested in broadcast companies. As a result, a downturn in an industry in which we have invested a significant portion of our total assets could have a materially adverse effect on us. Our investments are typically long term and will require several years to realize liquidation events. Since we generally intend to make five to seven year term loans and hold our loans and related warrants or other yield enhancements until the loans mature, you should not expect realization events, if any, to occur over the near term. In addition, we expect that any warrants or other yield enhancements that we receive when we make loans may require several years to appreciate in value and we cannot give any assurance that such appreciation will occur. We may not realize gains from our equity investments and other yield enhancements. When we make a subordinated loan, we may receive warrants to purchase stock issued by the borrower or other yield enhancements, such as success fees (conditional interest). Our goal is to ultimately dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. We expect that, over time, the gains we realize on these warrants and other yield enhancements will offset any losses we experience on loan defaults. However, any warrants we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value and any other yield enhancements, such as success fees, may not be realized. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests or other yield enhancements, and any gains we do recognize may not be sufficient to offset losses we experience. Any unrealized depreciation we experience on our investment portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution. As a business development company we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Since our inception, the Company has, at times, incurred a cumulative net unrealized depreciation of its portfolio. Any unrealized depreciation in our investment 31 portfolio could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution to stockholders in future periods. Risks related to our regulation and structure We will be subject to corporate-level tax if we are unable to satisfy Internal Revenue Code requirements for RIC qualification. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must meet income source, asset diversification, and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use leverage, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and could, under certain circumstances, be restricted from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. Warrants we receive with respect to debt investments will create "original issue discount," which we must recognize as ordinary income, increasing the amounts we are required to distribute to maintain RIC status. Because such warrants will not produce distributable cash for us at the same time as we are required to make distributions in respect of the related original issue discount, we will need to use cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements. The asset diversification requirements must be met at the end of each calendar quarter. If we fail to meet these tests, we may need to quickly dispose of certain investments to prevent the loss of RIC status. Since most of our investments will be illiquid, such dispositions, if even possible, may not be made at prices advantageous to us and, in fact, may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become fully subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount distributed. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our shares. For additional information regarding asset coverage ratio and RIC requirements, see "Business—Competitive Advantages—Leverage" and "Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Regulated Investment Company Status." Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. For additional information regarding the regulations to which we are subject, see "Business—Regulation as a Business Development Company" and "Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Regulated Investment Company Status." Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and adversely affect the price of our shares. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or making more difficult a change in control and preventing the removal of incumbent directors. The existence of these provisions may negatively affect the price of our shares and may discourage third-party bids. These provisions may reduce any premiums paid to you for our shares. Furthermore, we are subject to Section 3-602 of the Maryland General Corporation Law which governs business combinations with interested stockholders and could delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, our Board of Directors is elected in staggered terms which makes it more difficult for a hostile bidder to acquire control of us. 32 Risks related to an investment in our common stock We may experience fluctuation in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors including, among others, variations in the investment income, the interest rates payable on our debt securities, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the level of our expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions. As a consequence of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. Our current intention is to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on a quarterly basis. We expect to retain net realized long-term capital gains to supplement our equity capital and support the growth of our portfolio, although our Board of Directors may determine in certain cases to distribute these gains. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Distributions by us have and may in the future continue to include a return of capital. Our Board of Directors declares monthly dividends based on estimates of net investment incomes for each fiscal year, which may differ, and in the past have differed, from actual results. Because our distributions are based on estimates of net investment income that may differ from actual results, future distributions payable to our stockholders may also include a return of capital. Moreover, to the extent that we distribute amounts that exceed our accumulated earnings and profits, these distributions constitute a return of capital. Such returns of capital reduce our asset base and also adversely affect our ability to raise debt capitals a result of the leverage restrictions under the 1940 Act, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to make new investments. The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for over a year. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels, and we have experienced greater than usual stock price volatility. The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following: •general economic trends and other external factors; •price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of shares of RICs, business development companies or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; •changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; •loss of business development company status; •loss of RIC status; 33 •changes in our earnings or variations in our operating results; •changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; •any shortfall in our revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; •departure of key personnel; •operating performance of companies comparable to us; •short-selling pressure with respect to our shares or business development companies generally; •the announcement of proposed, or completed, offering of our securities; and, •loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading prices of our shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our shares and, if we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. Although our common stock historically has generally traded above net asset value, recently it has traded below the September 30, 2008 net asset value of $12.89 per share. Subsequent to September 30, 2008, our stock has consistently traded at discounts of up to 54.5% of net asset value. This characteristic of shares of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share will decline. As with any stock, the price of our shares will fluctuate with market conditions and other factors. If shares are sold, the price received may be more or less than the original investment. Whether investors will realize gains or losses upon the sale of our shares will not depend directly upon our net asset value, but will depend upon the market price of the shares at the time of sale. Since the market price of our shares will be affected by such factors as the relative demand for and supply of the shares in the market, general market and economic conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict whether the shares will trade at, below or above our net asset value. Under the 1940 Act, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price below net asset value per share to purchasers other than our existing stockholders through a rights offering without first obtaining the approval of our stockholders and our independent directors. Additionally, at times when our stock is trading below its net asset value per share, our dividend yield may exceed the weighted average returns that we would expect to realize on new investments that would be made with the proceeds from the sale of such stock, making it unlikely that we would determine to issue additional shares in such circumstances. Thus, for as long as our common stock trades below net asset value we will be subject to significant constraints on our ability to raise capital. Additionally, an extended period of time in which we are unable to raise capital may restrict our ability to grow and adversely impact our ability to increase or maintain our dividend. Other risks We could face losses and potential liability if intrusion, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information or that of users of our technology. Although we have implemented, and will continue to implement, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by transmission from unauthorized users. The misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. 34 Terrorist attacks, acts of war, or national disasters may affect any market for our common stock, affect the businesses in which we invest, and harm our business, operating results, and financial conditions. Terrorist acts, acts of war, or national disasters have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or national disasters could further weaken the domestic/global economies and create additional uncertainties, which may negatively affect the businesses in which we invest directly or indirectly and, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Losses from terrorist attacks and national disasters are generally uninsurable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 