ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Actual results in future periods for Great Plains Energy and KCP&L could differ materially from historical results and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. The Companies’ business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond their control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the Companies’ management currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the Companies. This information, as well as the other information included in this report and in the other documents filed with the SEC, should be carefully considered before making an investment in the securities of Great Plains Energy or KCP&L. Risk factors of KCP&L are also risk factors of Great Plains Energy. Utility Regulatory Risks: Complex utility regulation could adversely affect the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Companies are subject to, or affected by, extensive federal and state utility regulation, including by the MPSC, KCC, FERC, NRC, SPP and NERC. The Companies must address in their business planning and management of operations the effects of existing and proposed laws and regulations and potential changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, RTOs, utility regulators and taxing authorities. Failure of the Companies to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner, new or changed laws, regulations, standards, interpretations or other legal requirements, and increased compliance costs and potential non-compliance consequences may materially affect the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Certain of these risks are addressed in greater detail below. 11 The outcome of retail rate proceedings could have a material impact on the business and is largely outside the Companies’ control. The rates that KCP&L and GMO are allowed to charge their customers are the single most important item influencing the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. These rates are subject to the determination, in large part, of governmental entities outside of the Companies’ control, including the MPSC, KCC and FERC. The utility rate-setting principle generally applicable to KCP&L and GMO is that rates should provide a reasonable opportunity to recover expenses and investment prudently incurred to provide utility service plus a reasonable return on such investment. Various expenses incurred by KCP&L and GMO have been excluded from rates by the MPSC and KCC in past rate cases as not being prudently incurred or not providing utility customer benefit, and there is a risk that certain expenses incurred in the future may not be recovered in rates. The MPSC and KCC have also excluded from rates from time to time all or a portion of the capital cost of various facilities as not being prudently incurred or not being useful in providing utility service. For example, KCC’s November 2010 rate order for KCP&L excluded a portion of the capital costs of the Iatan No. 1 environment project and Iatan No. 2 from KCP&L’s Kansas jurisdictional rate base. In March 2007, KCP&L entered into a Collaboration Agreement with the Sierra Club and the Concerned Citizens of Platte County that provides for increases in KCP&L’s wind generation capacity and energy efficiency initiatives, reductions in certain emission permit levels at its Iatan and LaCygne generating stations, and projects to offset certain CO2 emissions. The wind generation, energy efficiency and emission permit reductions are conditioned on regulatory approval. In addition to these commitments, as discussed in the “Environmental Risks” and “Financial Risks” sections below, the Companies’ capital expenditures are expected to be substantial over the next several years for other environmental and other projects, and there is a risk that a portion of the capital costs could be excluded from rates in future rate cases. The Companies are also exposed to cost-recovery shortfalls due to the inherent “regulatory lag” in the rate-setting process, especially during periods of significant cost inflation or declining retail usage, as KCP&L’s and GMO’s utility rates are generally based on historical information and are not subject to adjustment (other than principally for fuel and purchased power for KCP&L in Kansas and for GMO) between rate cases. These and other factors may result in under-recovery of costs, failure to earn the authorized return on investment, or both. There are mandatory renewable energy standards in Missouri and Kansas. There is the potential for future federal or state mandatory energy efficiency requirements. KCP&L agreed to implement various energy efficiency programs as part of the Collaboration Agreement and the 2005 Comprehensive Energy Plan. KCP&L and GMO have implemented certain energy efficiency programs. The Companies currently recover energy efficiency program expenses on a deferred basis with no recovery mechanism for associated lost revenues. The MPSC order approving the GMO acquisition provides that the transaction costs will not be recovered through utility rates, and that the Missouri jurisdictional portion of transition costs will be eligible for recovery through utility rates only to the extent the costs are offset by benefits resulting from the acquisition. These costs continue to be deferred until the MPSC authorizes their rate recovery. The KCC order approving the GMO acquisition limited KCP&L’s recovery of transition costs through Kansas rates to $10.0 million over a five year period, starting in December 2010. Failure to timely recover the full investment costs of capital projects, or the impact of renewable energy and energy efficiency programs, or other utility costs and expenses due to regulatory disallowances, 12 regulatory lag or other factors could lead to lowered credit ratings, reduced access to capital markets, increased financing costs, lower flexibility due to constrained financial resources and increased collateral security requirements, or reductions or delays in planned capital expenditures. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative, public perception (including, but not limited to, the Companies’ environmental reputation) and regulatory pressures, the Companies may be subject to rate moratoriums, rate refunds, limits on rate increases, lower allowed returns on investment or rate reductions, including phase-in plans designed to spread the impact of rate increases over an extended period of time for the benefit of customers. Regulatory requirements regarding utility operations may increase costs and may expose the Companies to compliance penalties or adverse rate consequences. The NRC extensively regulates nuclear power plants, including Wolf Creek. The FERC, NERC and SPP have implemented and enforce an extensive set of transmission system reliability, cyber security and critical infrastructure protection standards that apply to public utilities, including KCP&L and GMO. The MPSC and KCC have the authority to implement utility operational standards and requirements, such as vegetation management standards, facilities inspection requirements and quality of service standards, and KCP&L agreed to quality of service standards in Kansas in connection with the GMO acquisition. In addition, the Companies are also subject to health, safety and other requirements enacted by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Labor and other federal and state agencies. The costs of existing, new or modified regulations, standards and other requirements could have an adverse effect on the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows as a result of increased operations or maintenance and capital expenditures for new facilities or to repair or improve existing facilities. In addition, failure to meet quality of service, reliability, cyber security, critical infrastructure protection, operational or other standards and requirements could expose the Companies to penalties, additional compliance costs, or adverse rate consequences. Environmental Risks: The Companies are subject to current and potential environmental requirements and the incurrence of environmental liabilities, any or all of which may adversely affect their business and financial results. The Companies are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and permit requirements relating to air and water quality, waste management and disposal, natural resources and health and safety. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations and remediation costs for historical and pre-existing conditions, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. There is also a risk that new environmental laws and regulations, new judicial interpretations of environmental laws and regulations, or the requirements in new or renewed environmental permits could adversely affect the Companies’ operations. In addition, there is also a risk of lawsuits brought by third parties alleging violations of environmental commitments or requirements, creation of a public nuisance or other matters, and seeking injunctions or monetary or other damages and certain federal courts have held that state and local governments and private parties have standing to bring climate change tort suits seeking company-specific emission reductions and damages. Environmental permits are subject to periodic renewal, which may result in more stringent permit conditions and limits. New facilities, or modifications of existing facilities, may require new environmental permits or amendments to existing permits. Delays in the environmental permitting process, public opposition and challenges, denials of permit applications, limits or conditions imposed in permits and the associated uncertainty may materially adversely affect the cost and timing of the projects, and thus materially adversely affect the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. KCP&L and GMO would seek recovery of capital costs and expenses for environmental compliance and remediation through rate increases; however, there can be no assurance that such rate increases would be granted. 13 As discussed above, KCP&L and GMO may be subject to material adverse rate treatment in response to competitive, economic, political, legislative, public perception of the Companies’ environmental reputation and regulatory pressures. The costs of compliance or noncompliance with these environmental requirements, or remediation costs, or adverse outcomes of lawsuits, or failure to timely recover environmental costs, could have a material adverse effect on the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Certain of these matters are discussed in more detail below. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding certain significant environmental matters. Air and Climate Change The Companies believe it is likely that additional federal or relevant regional, state or local laws or regulations could be enacted to address global climate change. At the international level, while the United States is not a current party to the Kyoto Protocol, it has agreed to undertake certain voluntary actions under the non-binding Copenhagen Accord and pursuant to subsequent international discussions relating to climate change, including the establishment of a goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. International agreements legally binding on the United States may be reached in the future. Such laws or regulations could require the control or reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases, such as CO2, which are created in the combustion of fossil fuels. These requirements could include, among other things, taxes or fees on fossil fuels or emissions, cap and trade programs, and clean or renewable energy standards. The Companies’ current generation capacity is primarily coal-fired, and is estimated to produce about one ton of CO2 per MWh, or about 28 million and 21 million tons per year for Great Plains Energy and KCP&L, respectively. Missouri law requires at least 2% of the electricity provided by certain utilities, including KCP&L and GMO, to come from renewable resources by 2011, increasing to 15% by 2021. Kansas law requires certain utilities, including KCP&L, to have renewable energy generation capacity equal to at least 10% of their three-year average Kansas peak retail demand by 2011, increasing to 15% by 2016 and 20% by 2020. Management believes that national renewable energy standards are also likely. The timing, provisions and impact of such requirements, including the cost to obtain and install new equipment to achieve compliance, cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Such requirements could have a significant financial and operational impact on the Companies. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has enacted various regulations regarding the reporting and permitting of greenhouse gases, and has proposed other permitting regulations, under the existing Clean Air Act. These existing and proposed rules establish new thresholds for greenhouse gas emissions, defining when Clean Air Act permits under the New Source Performance Standards, New Source Review and Title V operating permits programs would be required for new or existing industrial facilities and when the installation of best available control technology would be required. Most of the Companies’ generating facilities would be affected by these existing and proposed rules. Additional federal and/or state legislation or regulation respecting greenhouse gas emissions may be proposed or enacted in the near future. Further, pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement, KCP&L agreed to pursue a set of initiatives including energy efficiency, additional wind generation, lower emission permit levels at its Iatan and LaCygne stations and other initiatives designed to offset CO2 emissions. Requirements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may cause the Companies to incur significant costs relating to their ongoing operations (through additional environmental control equipment, retiring and replacing existing generation, or selecting more costly generation alternatives), to procure emission allowance credits, or due to the imposition of taxes, fees or other governmental charges as a result of such emissions. Rules issued by the EPA regarding emissions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants, NOX, SO2 and particulates are also in a state of flux. Such rules have been overturned by the courts and remanded to the EPA to be revised consistent with the court orders. The EPA is expected to develop proposed standards in 2011, based on maximum achievable control technology (MACT), for mercury and potentially other hazardous air pollutant emissions. In addition, the EPA has notified KCP&L that MACT determinations and schedules of compliance are required for KCP&L’s Iatan No. 2 and Hawthorn No. 5 generating units. The Missouri and Kansas state environmental agencies have submitted to the 14 EPA their determinations that the Kansas City area is an ozone nonattainment area, and must submit by 2013 implementation plans outlining how the area will meet the standards. Additionally, the EPA has proposed to strengthen the national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) for ozone and has strengthened the NAAQS for SO2. The Companies’ current estimates of capital expenditures (exclusive of Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and property taxes) to comply with the currently effective Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) and with the best available retrofit technology (BART) rule is approximately $1 billion. If CAIR is replaced by the proposed Transport Rule, the Companies do not expect the required capital expenditures to exceed that amount. However, it is unknown what requirements and standards will be imposed in the future and when the Companies may have to comply, the effects of the MACT determinations and schedules of compliance, or what costs may ultimately be required. Water The Clean Water Act and associated regulations enacted by the EPA form a comprehensive program to preserve water quality. All of the Companies’ generating facilities, and certain of their other facilities, are subject to the Clean Water Act. Previously issued EPA regulations regarding protection of aquatic life from being killed or injured by cooling water intake structures have been suspended, and the EPA is engaged in further rulemaking on this matter. At this time, the Companies are unable to predict how the EPA will respond or how that response will impact the Companies’ operations. KCP&L holds a permit from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) authorizing KCP&L to, among other things, withdraw water from the Missouri river for cooling purposes and return the heated water to the Missouri river. KCP&L has applied for a renewal of this permit and the EPA has submitted an interim objection letter regarding the allowable amount of heat that can be contained in the returned water. Until this matter is resolved, KCP&L continues to operate under its current permit. KCP&L cannot predict the outcome of this matter; however, while less significant outcomes are possible, this matter may require KCP&L to reduce its generation at Hawthorn Station, install cooling towers or both, any of which could have a significant adverse impact on KCP&L. The outcome could also affect the terms of water permit renewals at KCP&L’s Iatan Station and at GMO’s Sibley and Lake Road Stations. Additionally, the EPA in September 2009 announced plans to revise the existing standards for waste water discharges from coal-fired power plants. Until a rule is proposed and finalized, the financial and operational impacts cannot be determined. Further, the possible effects of climate change, including potentially increased temperatures and reduced precipitation, could make it more difficult and costly to comply with the final permit requirements. Solid Waste Solid and hazardous waste generation, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal is regulated at the federal and state levels under various laws and regulations. The Companies principally use coal in generating electricity and dispose of coal combustion residuals (CCRs) in both on-site facilities and facilities owned by third parties. In response to an incident at a Tennessee Valley Authority coal combustion product containment area, the EPA has proposed regulations regarding the handling and disposal of CCRs, which include alternative proposals to regulate CCRs as special or hazardous wastes or as non-hazardous wastes. If enacted, any new laws and regulations, especially if CCRs are classified as hazardous waste, could have a material adverse effect on the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Remediation Under current law, the Companies are also generally responsible for any liabilities associated with the environmental condition of their properties, and other properties at which the Companies arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, including properties that they have previously owned or 15 operated, such as manufactured gas plants (MGP), regardless of whether they were responsible for the contamination or whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time they owned or operated the properties or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances. In addition, the EPA has given advance notice of a proposed rulemaking to impose financial assurance requirements for various classes of facilities, including electric generation, transmission and distribution, that produce, transport, treat, store or dispose of certain hazardous substances. Due to all of the above, the Companies’ projected capital and other expenditures for environmental compliance are subject to significant uncertainties, including the timing of implementation of any new or modified environmental requirements, the emissions limits imposed by such requirements and the types and costs of the compliance alternatives selected by the Companies. As a result, costs to comply with environmental requirements cannot be estimated with certainty, and actual costs could be significantly higher than projections. Other new environmental laws and regulations affecting the operations of the Companies may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to the Companies or their facilities, any of which may materially adversely affect the Companies’ business, adversely affect the Companies’ ability to continue operating its power plants as currently done and substantially increase their environmental expenditures or liabilities in the future. Financial Risks: Financial market disruptions and declines in credit ratings may increase financing costs and/or limit access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect liquidity and results. The Companies’ capital requirements are expected to be substantial over the next several years. The Companies rely on access to short-term money markets, revolving credit facilities provided by financial institutions and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. The Companies also rely on bank-provided credit facilities for credit support, such as letters of credit, to support operations. The amount of credit support required for operations varies with a number of factors, including the amount and price of wholesale power purchased or sold. Great Plains Energy, KCP&L, GMO and certain of their securities are rated by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. These ratings impact the Companies’ cost of funds and Great Plains Energy’s ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries. The interest rates on borrowings under the Companies’ revolving credit agreements and on a substantial portion of Great Plains Energy’s and GMO’s debt are subject to increase as their respective credit ratings decrease. The Companies have agreed to not seek rate recovery of GMO interest costs in excess of equivalent investment-grade debt, and the MPSC approval of the GMO acquisition is conditioned on the requirement that any post-acquisition financial effects of a credit downgrade of Great Plains Energy, KCP&L or GMO occurring as a result of the acquisition would be borne by shareholders and not utility customers. The amount of collateral or other credit support required under power supply and certain other agreements is also dependent on credit ratings. The capital and credit markets experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption in recent years. Though market conditions have stabilized, there is no assurance that conditions will not deteriorate in the future. Adverse market conditions or decreases in Great Plains Energy’s, KCP&L’s or GMO’s credit ratings could have material adverse effects on the Companies. These effects could include, among others: reduced access to capital and increased cost of funds; dilution resulting from equity issuances at reduced prices; changes in the type and/or increases in the amount of collateral or other credit support obligations required to be posted with contractual counterparties; increased nuclear decommissioning trust and pension and other post-retirement benefit plan funding requirements; rate case disallowance of KCP&L’s or GMO’s costs of capital; reductions in or delays of capital expenditures, or reductions in Great Plains Energy’s ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries. Any of these results could adversely affect the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, market disruption and volatility could have an adverse impact on the Companies’ lenders, suppliers and other counterparties or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. 16 A sustained decline in Great Plains Energy’s stock price below book value may result in goodwill impairments that could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s results of operations and financial position, as well as credit facility covenants. The GMO acquisition resulted in Great Plains Energy recording $169 million in goodwill. Accounting rules require goodwill to be tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs indicating the possibility that an impairment exists. Great Plains Energy’s stock traded at a price below carrying value throughout 2010. If the stock price were to decline substantially further from its current level in relation to carrying value, accounting rules may require Great Plains Energy to conduct additional goodwill impairment tests. There is no assurance that the results of these additional tests will not require Great Plains Energy to recognize an impairment of goodwill. An impairment of goodwill would reduce net income and shareholders’ equity, may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s results of operations and financial position, and in certain circumstances could result in a breach of the debt to total capitalization covenants in Great Plains Energy’s and GMO’s revolving credit agreements. Great Plains Energy has guaranteed substantially all of the outstanding debt of GMO and payments under these guarantees may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s liquidity. In connection with the GMO acquisition, Great Plains Energy issued guarantees covering substantially all of the outstanding debt of GMO and has guaranteed GMO’s current $450 million revolving credit facility. The guarantees were a factor in GMO receiving investment-grade ratings and the guarantees obligate Great Plains Energy to pay amounts owed by GMO directly to the holders of the guaranteed debt in the event GMO defaults on its payment obligations. Great Plains Energy may also guarantee debt that GMO may issue in the future. Any guarantee payments could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s liquidity. The inability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to provide sufficient dividends to Great Plains Energy, or the inability otherwise of Great Plains Energy to pay dividends to its shareholders and meet its financial obligations would have an adverse effect. Great Plains Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. The primary source of funds for payment of dividends to its shareholders and its other financial obligations is dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, particularly KCP&L and GMO. The ability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions, and accordingly, Great Plains Energy’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock and meet its financial obligations principally depends on the actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial position of its subsidiaries, as well as on regulatory factors, financial covenants, general business conditions and other matters. In addition, Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and GMO are subject to certain corporate and regulatory restrictions and financial covenants that could affect their ability to pay dividends. Great Plains Energy’s articles of incorporation restrict the payment of common stock dividends in the event common equity is 25% or less of total capitalization. In addition, if preferred stock dividends are not declared and paid when scheduled, Great Plains Energy could not declare or pay common stock dividends or purchase any common shares. If the unpaid preferred stock dividends equal four or more full quarterly dividends, the preferred shareholders, voting as a single class, could elect the smallest number of directors necessary to constitute a majority of the full Great Plains Energy Board of Directors. Certain conditions in the MPSC and KCC orders authorizing the holding company structure require Great Plains Energy and KCP&L to maintain consolidated common equity of at least 30% and 35%, respectively, of total capitalization (including only the amount of short-term debt in excess of the amount of construction work in progress). Under the Federal Power Act, KCP&L and GMO generally can pay dividends only out of retained earnings. The revolving credit agreements of Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and GMO contain a covenant requiring each company to maintain a consolidated indebtedness to consolidated total capitalization ratio of not more than 0.65 to 1.00. In addition, Great Plains Energy is prohibited from paying dividends on its common and preferred stock in the event its Equity Unit contract payments or interest payments on the debt underlying the Equity Units are deferred until such deferrals have been paid. While these corporate and regulatory restrictions and financial covenants are not expected to affect the Companies’ ability to pay 17 dividends at the current level in the foreseeable future, there is no assurance that adverse financial results would not trigger such restrictions or covenants and reduce or eliminate the Companies’ ability to pay dividends. Market performance, increased retirements and retirement plan regulations could significantly impact retirement plan funding requirements and associated cash needs and expenses. Substantially all of the Companies’ and Wolf Creek Nuclear Operating Corporation’s employees participate in defined benefit retirement and post-retirement plans. Former employees also have accrued benefits in defined benefit retirement and post-retirement plans. The costs of these plans depend on a number of factors, including the rates of return on plan assets, the level and nature of the provided benefits, discount rates, the interest rates used to measure required minimum funding levels, changes in benefit design, changes in laws or regulations, and the Companies’ required or voluntary contributions to the plans. The Companies currently have substantial unfunded liabilities under these plans. Also, if the rate of retirements exceeds planned levels, or if these plans experience adverse market returns on investments, or if interest rates materially fall, the Companies’ contributions to the plans could rise substantially over historical levels. In addition, changes in accounting rules and assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions, including projected retirements, could have a significant impact on the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of business could result in losses that could negatively impact the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Companies use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage commodity and financial risks. Losses could be recognized as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, if a counterparty fails to perform, or if the underlying transactions which the derivative instruments are intended to hedge fail to materialize. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. As a service provider to GMO, KCP&L may have exposure to GMO’s financial performance and operations. GMO has no employees of its own. KCP&L employees operate and manage GMO’s properties, and KCP&L charges GMO for the cost of these services. These arrangements may pose risks to KCP&L, including possible claims arising from actions of KCP&L employees in operating GMO’s properties and providing other services to GMO. KCP&L’s claims for reimbursement for services provided to GMO are unsecured and rank equally with other unsecured obligations of GMO. KCP&L’s ability to be reimbursed for the costs incurred for the benefit of GMO depends on the financial ability of GMO to make such payments. Customer and Weather-Related Risks: Changes in customer electricity consumption due to sustained financial market disruptions, downturns or sluggishness in the economy, technological advances, or otherwise may adversely affect the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The results of operations, financial position and cash flows of the Companies can be materially affected by changes in customer electricity consumption. The Companies estimate customer electricity consumption based on historical trends to procure fuel and purchased power. Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affect the markets in which the Companies operate. Additionally, technological advances or other energy conservation measures could reduce customer electricity consumption. Weather is a major driver of the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L are significantly impacted by seasonality, with approximately one-third of their retail electric revenues recorded in the third quarter. Unusually mild winter or summer weather can adversely affect sales. In addition, severe weather, including but not limited to tornados, snow, rain and ice 18 storms can be destructive causing outages and property damage that can potentially result in additional expenses, lower revenues and additional capital restoration costs. Some of the Companies’ stations use water from the Missouri River for cooling purposes. Low water and flow levels, which have been experienced in past years, can increase maintenance costs at these stations and, if these levels were to get low enough, could require modifications to plant operations. Conversely, Missouri River flooding has occurred at various times in past years, which has affected plant operations. The possible effects of climate change (such as increased temperatures, increased occurrence of severe weather or reduced precipitation, among other possible results) could potentially increase the volatility of demand and prices for energy commodities, the frequency and impact of severe weather, increase the frequency of flooding or decrease water and flow levels. Operational Risks: Operations risks may adversely affect the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The operation of the Companies’ electric generation, transmission, distribution and information systems involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment, processes and personnel performance; problems that delay or increase the cost of returning facilities to service after outages, operating limitations that may be imposed by equipment conditions, environmental, safety or other regulatory requirements; fuel supply or fuel transportation reductions or interruptions; transmission scheduling constraints; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorism, cyber-threats, severe weather or other similar occurrences. An equipment or system outage or constraint can, among other things: · in the case of generation equipment, affect operating costs, increase capital requirements and costs, increase purchased power volumes and costs and reduce wholesale sales opportunities; · in the case of transmission equipment, affect operating costs, increase capital requirements and costs, require changes in the source of generation and affect wholesale sales opportunities and the ability to meet regulatory reliability and security requirements; · in the case of distribution systems, affect revenues and operating costs, increase capital requirements and costs, and affect the ability to meet regulatory service metrics and customer expectations; and · in the case of information systems, affect the control and operations of generation, transmission, distribution and other business operations and processes, increase operating costs, increase capital requirements and costs, and affect the ability to meet regulatory reliability and security requirements and customer expectations. With the exception of Hawthorn No. 5, which was substantially rebuilt in 2001, and Iatan No. 2, which was completed in 2010, all of KCP&L’s coal-fired generating units and its nuclear generating unit were constructed prior to 1986. All of GMO’s coal-fired generating units were constructed prior to 1984. The age of these generating units increases the risk of unplanned outages, reduced generation output and higher maintenance expense. Training, preventive maintenance and other programs have been implemented, but there is no assurance that these programs will prevent or minimize future breakdowns or failures of the Companies’ generation facilities or increased maintenance expense. The Companies currently have general liability and property insurance in place to cover their facilities in amounts that management considers appropriate. These policies, however, do not cover the Companies’ transmission or distribution systems, and the cost of repairing damage to these systems may adversely affect the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at reasonable costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of the Companies’ facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage. These and other operating events may reduce the Companies’ revenues, increase their costs, or both, and may materially affect their results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 19 The cost and schedule of construction projects may materially change and expected performance may not be achieved. Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s businesses are capital intensive, and require significant capital investments to maintain existing facilities, for projected environmental projects and to add new facilities. The risks of any construction project include: the possibilities that actual costs may exceed estimated costs due to inflation or other factors; delays may occur in obtaining permits and materials; suppliers and contractors may not perform as required under their contracts; there may be inadequate availability or increased cost of equipment, materials or qualified craft labor; the scope, cost and timing of projects may change due to new or changed environmental requirements or other factors; and other events beyond the Companies’ control may occur that may materially affect the schedule, cost and performance of these projects. These and other risks could materially increase the estimated costs of construction projects, delay the in-service dates of projects, adversely affect the performance of the projects, and/or require the Companies to purchase additional electricity to supply their respective retail customers until the projects are completed. The Companies currently are not permitted to start recovering the costs of these projects in rates until they are completed and put into service. Thus, these risks may significantly affect the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Failure of one or more generation plant co-owners to pay their share of construction or operations and maintenance costs could increase the Companies’ costs and capital requirements. KCP&L owns 47% of Wolf Creek, 50% of LaCygne Station, 70% of Iatan No. 1 and 55% of Iatan No. 2. GMO owns 18% of both Iatan units and 8% of Jeffrey Energy Center. The remaining portions of these facilities are owned by other utilities that are contractually obligated to pay their proportionate share of capital and other costs. While the ownership agreements provide that a defaulting co-owner’s share of the electricity generated can be sold by the non-defaulting co-owners, there is no assurance that the revenues received will recover the increased costs borne by the non-defaulting co-owners. Occurrence of these or other events could materially increase the Companies’ costs and capital requirements. Commodity Price Risks: Changes in commodity prices could have an adverse effect on the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Companies engage in the wholesale and retail marketing of electricity and are exposed to risks associated with the price of electricity. To the extent that exposure to the price of electricity is not successfully hedged, the Companies could experience losses associated with the changing market price for electricity. Increases in fuel, fuel transportation and purchased power prices could have an adverse impact on the Companies’ costs. KCP&L’s Kansas retail rates contain an energy cost adjustment mechanism. KCP&L’s Missouri retail rates do not contain a similar provision. GMO’s retail electric and steam rates contain a fuel adjustment mechanism under which most, but not all, of the difference between actual fuel and purchased power costs and the amount of fuel and purchased power costs provided in base rates is passed along to GMO’s customers. As a result, the Companies are exposed to varying degrees of risk from changes in the market prices of fuel for generation of electricity and purchased power. Changes in the Companies’ fuel mix due to electricity demand, plant availability, transportation issues, fuel prices, fuel availability and other factors can also adversely affect the Companies’ fuel and purchased power costs. The Companies do not hedge their respective entire exposure from fuel and transportation price volatility. Consequently, the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially impacted by changes in these prices unless and until increased costs are recovered in KCP&L’s Missouri retail rates. 20 Wholesale electricity sales affect revenues, creating earnings volatility. The levels of the Companies’ wholesale sales depend on the wholesale market price, transmission availability and the availability of generation for wholesale sales, among other factors. A substantial portion of wholesale sales are made in the spot market, and thus the Companies have immediate exposure to wholesale price changes. Wholesale power prices can be volatile and generally increase in times of high regional demand and high natural gas prices. While an allocated portion of wholesale sales are reflected in KCP&L’s Kansas energy cost adjustment and GMO’s fuel adjustment mechanisms, KCP&L’s Missouri rates are set on an estimated amount of wholesale sales. KCP&L will not recover any shortfall in non-firm wholesale electric sales margin from the level included in Missouri rates and any amount above the level reflected in Missouri retail rates will be returned to Missouri retail customers in a future rate case. Declines in wholesale market price, availability of generation, transmission constraints in the wholesale markets, or low wholesale demand could reduce the Companies’ wholesale sales. KCP&L is exposed to risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, which could result in an adverse effect on the Companies’ business and financial results. KCP&L owns 47% of Wolf Creek. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities, including Wolf Creek. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, shut down the facilities, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Any revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could result in substantial capital expenditures at Wolf Creek. Wolf Creek has the lowest fuel cost per MWh of any of KCP&L's generating units. An extended outage of Wolf Creek, whether resulting from NRC action, an incident at the plant or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on KCP&L's results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the event KCP&L incurs higher replacement power and other costs that are not recovered through rates or insurance. If a long-term outage occurred, the state regulatory commissions could reduce rates by excluding the Wolf Creek investment from rate base. As discussed in “Operational Risks”, above, Wolf Creek was constructed prior to 1986, and the age of Wolf Creek increases the risk of unplanned outages and higher maintenance costs. Ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit exposes KCP&L to risks regarding decommissioning costs at the end of the unit's life. KCP&L contributes annually based on estimated decommissioning costs to a tax-qualified trust fund to be used to decommission Wolf Creek. The funding level assumes a projected level of return on trust assets. If the actual return on trust assets is below the projected level or actual decommissioning costs are higher than estimated, KCP&L could be responsible for the balance of funds required and may not be allowed to recover the balance through rates. KCP&L is also exposed to other risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, including, but not limited to, potential liability associated with the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of a nuclear generating unit and the storage, handling, disposal and potential release (by accident, through third-party actions or otherwise) of radioactive materials. Under the structure for insurance among owners of nuclear generating units, KCP&L is also liable for potential retrospective premium assessments (subject to a cap) per incident at any commercial reactor in the country and losses in excess of insurance coverage. Litigation Risks: The outcome of legal proceedings cannot be predicted. An adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on the Companies’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Companies are party to various material litigation and regulatory matters arising out of their business operations. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined, nor, in many cases, can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case presently be reasonably estimated. The liability that the Companies may ultimately incur with respect to any of these cases in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and insured against with respect to such matters. 21 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 