ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Actual results in future periods for Great Plains Energy and consolidated KCP&L could differ materially from historical results and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. The companies’ business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond the companies’ control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the companies’ management currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the companies. The risk factors described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report and in the other documents filed with the SEC, should be carefully considered before making an investment in the Company’s securities. Risk factors of consolidated KCP&L are also risk factors for Great Plains Energy. The Company has Regulatory Risks The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation, as described below. Failure to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals, in a timely manner, adoption of new regulations by federal or state agencies, or changes to current regulations and interpretations of such regulations may materially affect the Company’s business and its results of operations and financial position. 14 The outcome of KCP&L’s pending and future retail rate proceedings could have a material impact on its business and are largely outside its control. The rates, which KCP&L is allowed to charge its customers, are the single most important item influencing its results of operations, financial position and liquidity. These rates are subject to the determination, in large part, of governmental entities outside of KCP&L’s control, including the MPSC, KCC and FERC. Decisions made by these entities could have a material impact on KCP&L’s business including its results of operations and financial position. In February 2007, KCP&L filed a request with the MPSC to increase the annual rates charged to its retail customers in Missouri by approximately $45 million. KCP&L has also committed to file a request to increase the rates it is permitted to charge its Kansas retail customers with KCC by March 1, 2007. The requested rate increases are subject to the approval of the MPSC and KCC, which are expected to rule on the requests within eleven and nine months, respectively, of the filing dates. It is possible that the MPSC and/or KCC will authorize a lower rate increase than what KCP&L has requested, or no increase or a rate reduction. Additionally, the December 2006 order of the MPSC authorizing an increase in annual rates of approximately $51 million has been appealed in the Missouri courts. It is possible that the MPSC order could be vacated and the proceedings remanded to the MPSC. Management cannot predict or provide any assurances regarding the outcome of these proceedings. As a part of the Missouri and Kansas stipulations approved by the MPSC and KCC in 2005, KCP&L began implementation of its comprehensive energy plan. Under the comprehensive energy plan, KCP&L agreed to undertake certain projects, including building and owning a portion of Iatan No. 2, installing a new wind-powered generating facility, installing environmental upgrades to certain existing plants, infrastructure improvements and demand management, distributed generation, and customer efficiency and affordability programs. A reduction or rejection by the MPSC or KCC of rate increase requests may result in increased financing requirements for KCP&L. This could have a material impact on its results of operations and financial position. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative and regulatory pressures, KCP&L may be subject to rate moratoriums, rate refunds, limits on rate increases or rate reductions, including phase-in plans designed to spread the impact of rate increases over an extended period of time for the benefit of customers. Any or all of these could have a significant adverse effect on KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. The ability of Strategic Energy to compete in states offering retail choice may be materially affected by state regulations and host public utility rates. Strategic Energy is a participant in the wholesale electricity and transmission markets, and is subject to FERC regulation with respect to wholesale electricity sales and transmission matters. Additionally, Strategic Energy is subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies in states where it has retail customers. Each state has a public utility commission and rules related to retail choice. Each state's rules are distinct and may conflict. These rules do not restrict the amount Strategic Energy can charge for its services, but can have an impact on Strategic Energy's ability to compete in any jurisdiction. Additionally, each state regulates the rates of the host public utility, and the timing and amount of changes in host public utility rates can materially affect Strategic Energy’s results of operations and financial position. The Company has Financial Market and Ratings Risks The Company relies on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. The Company also relies on the financial markets for credit support, such as letters of credit, to support Strategic Energy and KCP&L operations. KCP&L’s capital requirements are expected to increase substantially over the next several years as it implements the generation and environmental projects in 15 its comprehensive energy plan. The amount of credit support required for Strategic Energy operations varies with a number of factors, including the amount and price of power purchased for its customers. The Company’s management believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets at a reasonable cost based upon current credit ratings and market conditions. However, changes in financial or other market conditions or credit ratings could adversely affect its ability to access financial markets at a reasonable cost, impact the rate treatment provided KCP&L, or both, and therefore materially affect its results of operations and financial position. Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and certain of their securities are rated by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. These ratings impact the Company’s cost of funds and Great Plains Energy’s ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries. Great Plains Energy is subject to business and regulatory uncertainties as a result of the anticipated acquisition of Aquila, Inc., which could adversely affect its business. On February 7, 2007, Great Plains Energy announced that it had entered into definitive agreements under which it would acquire all the outstanding shares of Aquila, Inc. (Aquila). Immediately prior to this acquisition, Black Hills Corporation would acquire from Aquila its electric utility in Colorado and its gas utilities in Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska and Iowa. These transactions are complex, and are subject to Great Plains Energy and Aquila shareholder approvals, numerous regulatory approvals and other conditions. The timing of, and the conditions imposed by, regulatory approvals may delay, or give rise to the ability to terminate, the transactions. In the event of termination, the Company would be required to write-off its deferred transactions costs, which could be material. The conditions imposed by regulatory approvals could increase the costs, or decrease the benefits, anticipated by the Company from the transaction. While it is anticipated that Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and Aquila will be rated investment grade after the transactions close, Great Plains Energy and KCP&L credit ratings have been negatively affected after the announcement of the proposed acquisition, and may be further negatively affected. Credit rating downgrades could result in higher financing costs and potentially limit the companies’ access to the capital and credit markets, impact the rate treatment provided KCP&L, or both. Great Plains Energy entered into the transaction agreements with the expectation that the acquisition would result in various benefits to it and KCP&L including, among other things, synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Although the Company expects to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, achieving them cannot be assured. The Company expects to propose to regulators that the benefits resulting from the transaction be shared between retail electric customers and Company shareholders, and will request certain other regulatory assurances. There is no assurance regarding the amount of benefit-sharing, or other regulatory treatment, in rate cases occurring after the closing of the transactions. Additionally, Aquila's utility operations are subject to regulation by numerous government entities, including the MPSC and FERC, and have pending MPSC rate cases, the outcome of which are subject to uncertainty. As such, a successful acquisition of Aquila will subject Great Plains Energy to additional regulatory risk. The Company’s Financial Statements Reflect the Application of Critical Accounting Policies The application of the Company’s critical accounting policies reflects complex judgments and estimates. These policies include industry-specific accounting applicable to regulated public utilities, accounting for pensions and derivative instruments. The adoption of new Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or changes to current accounting policies or interpretations of such policies may materially affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. 16 The Company is Subject to Environmental Laws and the Incurrence of Environmental Liabilities The Company is subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities with regard to air quality and other environmental matters primarily through KCP&L’s operations. The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity produces and requires disposal of certain hazardous products, which are subject to these laws and regulations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy and consolidated KCP&L results of operations and financial position. New environmental laws and regulations affecting KCP&L’s operations may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to KCP&L or its facilities, which may substantially increase its environmental expenditures in the future. New facilities, or modifications of existing facilities, may require new environmental permits or amendments to existing permits. Delays in the environmental permitting process, denials of permit applications, conditions imposed in permits and the outcome of the appeal of KCP&L’s Iatan Station air permit may materially affect the cost and timing of the generation and environmental retrofit projects included in the comprehensive energy plan, among other projects, and thus materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. In addition, KCP&L may not be able to recover all of its costs for environmental expenditures through rates in the future. Under current law, KCP&L is also generally responsible for any on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of its facilities that it has previously owned or operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time it owned or operated the facilities. The incurrence of material environmental costs or liabilities, without related rate recovery, could have a material adverse effect on KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding environmental matters. Great Plains Energy’s Ability to Pay Dividends and Meet Financial Obligations Depends on its Subsidiaries Great Plains Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. The primary source of funds for payment of dividends to its shareholders and its financial obligations is dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, particularly KCP&L. The ability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions, and accordingly Great Plains Energy’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock and meet its financial obligations, will depend on the actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial position of its subsidiaries, as well as on regulatory factors, financial covenants, general business conditions and other matters. KCP&L and Strategic Energy are Affected by Demand, Seasonality and Weather The results of operations of KCP&L and Strategic Energy can be materially affected by changes in weather and customer demand. KCP&L and Strategic Energy estimate customer demand based on historical trends, to procure fuel and purchased power. Differences in customer usage from these estimates due to weather or other factors could materially affect KCP&L’s and Strategic Energy’s results of operations. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. KCP&L is significantly impacted by seasonality with approximately one-third of its retail revenues recorded in the third quarter. Strategic Energy is impacted by seasonality, but to a lesser extent. In addition, severe weather, including but not limited to tornados, snow, rain and ice storms can be destructive causing outages and property damage that can potentially result in additional expenses and lower revenues. KCP&L’s Iatan and Hawthorn stations use water from the Missouri River for cooling purposes. Low water and flow levels, which have been experienced in recent years, 17 can increase KCP&L’s maintenance costs at these stations and, if these levels were to get low enough, could cause KCP&L to modify plant operations. KCP&L and Strategic Energy have Commodity Price Risks KCP&L and Strategic Energy engage in the wholesale and retail marketing of electricity and are exposed to risks associated with the price of electricity. Strategic Energy routinely enters into contracts to purchase and sell electricity in the normal course of business. KCP&L generates, purchases and sells electricity in the retail and wholesale markets. Fossil Fuel and Transportation Prices Impact KCP&L’s Costs Less than 1% of KCP&L's rates contain an automatic fuel adjustment clause, exposing KCP&L to risk from changes in the market prices of coal and natural gas used to generate power and in the cost of coal and natural gas transportation. Changes in KCP&L’s fuel mix due to electricity demand, plant availability, transportation issues, fuel prices and other factors can also adversely affect KCP&L’s fuel costs. KCP&L does not hedge its entire exposure from fossil fuel and transportation price volatility. Consequently, its results of operations and financial position may be materially impacted by changes in these prices until increased costs are recovered in rates. Wholesale Electricity Prices Affect Costs and Revenues KCP&L's ability to maintain or increase its level of wholesale sales depends on the wholesale market price, transmission availability and the availability of KCP&L’s generation for wholesale sales, among other factors. A substantial portion of KCP&L’s wholesale sales are made in the spot market, and thus KCP&L has immediate exposure to wholesale price changes. Declines in wholesale market price or availability of generation or transmission constraints in the wholesale markets, could reduce KCP&L's wholesale sales and adversely affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. KCP&L is also exposed to price risk because at times it purchases power to meet its customers’ needs. The cost of these purchases may be affected by the timing of customer demand and/or unavailability of KCP&L’s lower-priced generating units. Wholesale power prices can be volatile and generally increase in times of high regional demand and high natural gas prices. Strategic Energy operates in competitive retail electricity markets, competing against the host utilities and other retail suppliers. Wholesale electricity costs, which account for a significant portion of its operating expenses, can materially affect Strategic Energy’s ability to attract and retain retail electricity customers. There is also a regulatory lag that slows the adjustment of host public utility rates in response to changes in wholesale prices. This lag can negatively affect Strategic Energy’s ability to compete in a rising wholesale price environment. Strategic Energy manages wholesale electricity risk by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of its positions to balance energy supply and demand; however, Strategic Energy does not hedge its entire exposure to electricity price volatility. Consequently, its results of operations and financial position may be materially impacted by changes in the wholesale price of electricity. KCP&L has Operations Risks The operation of KCP&L’s electric generation, transmission and distribution systems involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by equipment conditions, environmental or other regulatory requirements; fuel supply or fuel transportation reductions or interruptions; transmission scheduling; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, severe weather or other similar occurrences. 18 These and other operating events may reduce KCP&L’s revenues or increase its costs, or both, and may materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. KCP&L has Construction-Related Risks KCP&L’s comprehensive energy plan includes the construction of an estimated 850 MW coal-fired generating plant and environmental retrofits at two existing coal-fired units. KCP&L has not recently managed a construction program of this magnitude. There are risks that actual costs may exceed budget estimates, delays may occur in obtaining permits and materials, suppliers and contractors may not perform as required under their contracts, the scope and timing of projects may change, and other events beyond KCP&L’s control may occur that may materially affect the schedule, budget and performance of these projects. The anticipated acquisition of Aquila will increase Great Plains Energy’s ownership of Iatan Nos. 1 and 2. Aquila owns 18% of both Iatan generating units. Great Plains Energy’s post-acquisition ownership percentages of the Iatan generating units would be 88% of Iatan No. 1 and 72.71% of Iatan No. 2. The construction projects contemplated in the comprehensive energy plan rely upon the supply of a significant percentage of materials from overseas sources. This global procurement subjects the delivery of procured material to issues beyond what would be expected if such material were supplied from sources within the United States. These risks include, but are not limited to, delays in clearing customs, ocean transportation and potential civil unrest in sourcing countries, among others. Additionally, as with any major construction program, inadequate availability of qualified craft labor may have an adverse impact on both the estimated cost and completion date of the projects. KCP&L’s estimated capital expenditures for its comprehensive energy plan have increased. The primary driver of the increased cost estimate is the environmental retrofit of two existing coal-fired plants. The demand for environmental projects has increased substantially with many utilities in the United States starting similar projects to address changing environmental regulations. This demand has constrained labor and material resources resulting in a significant escalation in the estimated cost and completion times for environmental retrofits, as well as for the other comprehensive energy plan projects. The second phase of environmental upgrades at LaCygne No. 1 is currently in the planning stage, and the market conditions noted above could impact the scope and timing. These and other risks may increase the estimated costs of these construction projects, delay the in-service dates of these projects, or require KCP&L to purchase additional electricity to supply its retail customers until the projects are completed, and may materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. Failure of one or more generation plant co-owners to pay their share of construction, operations and maintenance costs could increase KCP&L’s costs and capital requirements. KCP&L owns 47% of Wolf Creek, 50% of LaCygne Station, 70% of Iatan No. 1 and 55% of Iatan No. 2. The remaining portions of these facilities are owned by other utilities that are contractually obligated to pay their proportionate share of capital and other costs and, in the case of Iatan No. 2, construction costs. While the ownership agreements provide that a defaulting co-owner’s share of the electricity generated can be sold by the non-defaulting co-owners, there is no assurance that the revenues received will recover the increased costs borne by the non-defaulting co-owners. Further, the Iatan No. 2 agreements provide during the construction period for re-allocations of part or all of a defaulting co-owner’s share of the facility to the non-defaulting owners, which would increase the capital, operations and maintenance costs of the non-defaulting owners. While management considers these matters to be unlikely, their occurrence could materially increase KCP&L’s costs and capital requirements. 19 KCP&L has Retirement-Related Risks Through 2010, approximately 20% of KCP&L’s current employees will be eligible to retire with full pension benefits. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect KCP&L’s ability to manage and operate its business. Substantially all of KCP&L’s employees participate in defined benefit and post-retirement plans. If KCP&L employees retire when they become eligible for retirement through 2010, or if KCP&L’s plans experience adverse market returns on its investments, or if interest rates materially fall, KCP&L’s contributions to the plans could rise substantially over historical levels. In addition, assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions, including projected retirements, have a significant impact on KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 alters the manner in which pension plan assets and liabilities are valued for purposes of calculating required pension contributions and changes the timing of required contributions to underfunded plans. The funding rules, which become effective in 2008, could significantly affect the Company’s funding requirements. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has a project to reconsider the accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits. This project may result in accelerated expense. KCP&L has Nuclear Exposure KCP&L owns 47% (548 MW) of Wolf Creek. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities, including Wolf Creek. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, shut down the facilities, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Any revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could result in substantial capital expenditures at Wolf Creek. Wolf Creek has the lowest fuel cost per MWh of any of KCP&L's generating units. Although not expected, an extended outage of Wolf Creek, whether resulting from NRC action, an incident at the plant or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse effect on KCP&L's results of operations and financial position in the event KCP&L incurs higher replacement power and other costs that are not recovered through rates. If a long-term outage occurred, the state regulatory commissions could reduce rates by excluding the Wolf Creek investment from rate base. Ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit exposes KCP&L to risks regarding decommissioning costs at the end of the unit's life. KCP&L contributes annually to a tax-qualified trust fund to be used to decommission Wolf Creek. The funding level assumes a projected level of return on trust assets. If the actual return on trust assets is below the anticipated level, KCP&L could be responsible for the balance of funds required; however, should this happen, management believes a rate increase would be allowed ensuring full recovery of decommissioning costs over the remaining life of the unit. KCP&L is also exposed to other risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, including, but not limited to, potential liability associated with the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of a nuclear generating unit and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, and to potential retrospective assessments and losses in excess of insurance coverage. 20 KCP&L’s participation in the SPP could increase costs, reduce revenues, and reduce KCP&L’s control over its transmission assets. Functional control of the KCP&L transmission systems was transferred to the SPP during the third quarter of 2006. KCP&L may be required to incur expenses or expand its transmission systems, which it would seek recovery for through rate increases, according to decisions made by the SPP rather than according to its internal planning process. The SPP Energy Imbalance Service (EIS) Market, which began operation on February 1, 2007, is designed to improve transparency of power pricing and efficiency in generation dispatch. This is a new and complex market, which may result in significant price volatility and suboptimal dispatching of power plants. In addition, the sale of power in this market-based environment may result in unanticipated transmission congestion and other settlement charges. Until KCP&L achieves a greater degree of operational experience participating in the SPP, including the SPP EIS Market, there is uncertainty as to the impact of its participation. In addition, there is uncertainty regarding the impact of ongoing RTO developments at FERC. KCP&L is unable to predict the impact these issues could have on its results of operations and financial position. Strategic Energy Operates in Competitive Retail Electricity Markets Strategic Energy has several competitors that operate in most or all of the same states in which it serves customers. It also faces competition in certain markets from regional suppliers and deregulated utility affiliates formed by holding companies affiliated with regulated utilities to provide retail load in their home market territories. Strategic Energy's competitors vary in size from small companies to large corporations, some of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and procurement resources than Strategic Energy. Additionally, Strategic Energy must compete with the host utility in order to convince customers to switch from the host utility to Strategic Energy as their electric service provider. Strategic Energy’s results of operations and financial position are impacted by the success Strategic Energy has in attracting and retaining customers in these markets. Strategic Energy has Credit Risk Strategic Energy has credit risk exposure in the form of the loss that it could incur if a counterparty failed to perform under its contractual obligations. Strategic Energy enters into forward contracts with multiple suppliers. In the event of supplier non-delivery or default, Strategic Energy’s results of operations may be affected to the extent the cost of replacement power exceeded the combination of the contracted price with the supplier and the amount of collateral held by Strategic Energy to mitigate its credit risk with the supplier. Strategic Energy’s results of operations may also be affected, in a given period, if it were required to make a payment upon termination of a supplier contract to the extent the contracted price with the supplier exceeded the market value of the contract at the time of termination. Additionally, Strategic Energy’s results of operations may be affected by increased bad debt expense if retail customers failed to satisfy their contractual obligations to pay Strategic Energy for electricity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 ITEM 