Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS All statements contained herein, other than historical facts, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements may relate to, among other things, future events or our future performance or financial condition. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “might,” “believe,” “will,” “provided,” “anticipate,” “future,” “could,” “growth,” “plan,” “intend,” “expect,” “should,” “would,” “if,” “seek,” “possible,” “potential”, “likely” or the negative of such terms or comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others: (1) adverse changes in interest rates; (2) our failure or inability to establish or maintain referral arrangements with leveraged buyout funds and venture capital funds to generate loan opportunities; (3) the loss of one or more of our executive officers, in particular David Gladstone, Terry Lee Brubaker, or George Stelljes III; (4) our inability to extend, refinance, or maintain our credit facilities on terms reasonably acceptable to us, if at all, in future equity capital resources; (5) our inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio on terms reasonably acceptable to us, if at all; (6) the decision of our competitors to aggressively seek to make senior and subordinated loans to small and medium-sized businesses on terms more favorable than we intend to provide; and (7) those factors described in the “Risk Factors” section of this Form 10-K. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and, as such, speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date of this Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. Business About Gladstone Capital Corporation We are a specialty finance company that was incorporated under the General Corporation Laws of the State of Maryland on May 30, 2001 and completed our initial public offering on August 24, 2001. We operate as a closed-end, non-diversified management investment company, and have elected to be treated as a business development company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to in this annual report as the 1940 Act. In addition, for tax purposes we have elected to be treated as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We seek to achieve a high level of current income by investing in debt securities, consisting primarily of senior notes, senior subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes, of established private businesses that are substantially owned by leveraged buyout funds, venture capital funds or are family-owned businesses. We also seek to provide our stockholders with long-term capital growth through the appreciation in the value of warrants or other equity instruments that we may receive when we make loans. We seek to invest in small and medium-sized private U.S. businesses that meet certain criteria, including the potential for growth, adequate assets for loan collateral, experienced management teams with significant ownership interest in the business, adequate capitalization, profitable operations based on cash flow, substantial ownership by leveraged buyout funds or venture capital funds and potential opportunities for us to realize appreciation and gain liquidity in our equity positions. We may achieve liquidity through a merger or acquisition of the borrower, a public offering of the borrower’s stock or by exercising our right to require the borrower to repurchase our warrants, though there can be no assurance that we will always have these rights. We seek to invest primarily in three categories of debt of private companies: · Senior Subordinated Notes. We seek to invest a portion of our assets in senior subordinated notes. Holders of senior subordinated notes are subordinated to the rights of holders of senior debt in their right to receive principal and interest payments or, in the case of last out tranches of senior debt, liquidation proceeds from the borrower. As a result, senior subordinated notes are riskier than senior notes. Although such loans are sometimes secured by significant collateral, the lender is largely dependent on the borrower’s cash flow for repayment. Additionally, lenders may receive warrants to acquire shares of stock in borrowers or other yield enhancements in connection with these loans. Senior subordinated notes include second lien loans and syndicated second lien loans. 1 · Senior Notes. We seek to invest a portion of our assets in senior notes of borrowers. Using its assets and cash flow as collateral, the borrower typically uses senior notes to cover a substantial portion of the funding needed to operate. Senior lenders are exposed to the least risk of all providers of debt because they command a senior position with respect to scheduled interest and principal payments. However, unlike senior subordinated and junior subordinated lenders, these senior lenders typically do not receive any stock, warrants to purchase stock of the borrowers or other yield enhancements. As such, they generally do not participate in the equity appreciation of the value of the business. Senior notes may include revolving lines of credit, senior term loans, senior syndicated loans and senior last-out tranche loans. · Junior Subordinated Notes. We also seek to invest a small portion of our assets in junior subordinated notes. Holders of junior subordinated notes are subordinated to the rights of the holders of senior debt and senior subordinated debt in their rights to receive principal and interest payments from the borrower. The risk profile of junior subordinated notes is high, which permits the junior subordinated lender to obtain higher interest rates and more equity and equity-like compensation. Approximately 69% of the aggregate value of our investment portfolio as of September 30, 2006 was senior debt, approximately 31% was senior subordinated debt and there were no investments in junior subordinated debt. As of September 30, 2006, we had approximately $216 million invested in 32 portfolio companies. September 30, 2006 September 30, 2005 % of % of Industry Classification Fair Value Total Investments Fair Value Total Investments Aerospace & Defense $ 5,529,891 2.6 % $ 15,021,732 7.6 % Automobile 6,332,906 2.9 % 9,212,906 4.6 % Cargo Transport 8,650,000 4.0 % 8,627,500 4.3 % Chemicals, Plastics & Rubber 31,105,148 14.3 % 11,924,751 5.9 % Diversified/Conglomerate Manufacturing — 0.0 % 5,050,000 2.5 % Ecological — 0.0 % 6,367,083 3.2 % Electronics 33,360,123 15.3 % 39,744,432 19.8 % Entertainment 3,491,250 1.6 % — 0.0 % Farming & Agriculture 709,431 0.3 % 8,032,114 4.0 % Healthcare, Education & Childcare 16,707,500 7.7 % 7,500,000 3.7 % Home & Office Furnishings 20,636,991 9.5 % 14,898,968 7.4 % Mining, Steel, Iron & Non-precious Metals 5,233,750 2.4 % 5,486,250 2.7 % Oil & Gas 6,056,250 2.8 % 5,037,500 2.5 % Personal & Non-durable Consumer Products — 0.0 % 15,427,377 7.7 % Personal, Food and Miscellaneous Services 6,011,288 2.8 % — 0.0 % Printing, Publishing & Broadcasting 16,203,000 7.4 % 7,064,500 3.5 % Retail Stores 14,981,250 6.9 % — 0.0 % Telecommunications 23,596,040 10.8 % 20,153,920 10.0 % Textiles & Leather 13,785,932 6.3 % 15,265,019 7.6 % Utilities 5,252,000 2.4 % 6,032,711 3.0 % Total 217,642,750 100.0 % 200,846,763 100.0 % Our loans typically range from $5 million to $15 million, generally mature in no more than seven years, and accrue interest at a fixed or variable rate that exceeds the prime rate. Because the majority of the loans in our portfolio consist of term debt of private companies who typically cannot or will not expend the resources to have their debt securities rated by a credit rating agency, we expect that most if not all of the debt securities we acquire will be unrated. Accordingly, we cannot accurately predict what ratings these loans might receive if they were in fact rated, and thus cannot determine whether or not they could be considered “investment grade” quality. We hold our loan investment portfolio through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Gladstone Business Loan LLC. About Gladstone Management Corporation Our affiliate Gladstone Management Corporation (the “Adviser” or “GMC”) is our external investment adviser and is led by a management team which has extensive experience in our lines of business. GMC is controlled by David Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Gladstone is also the chairman and chief executive officer of GMC. Terry Lee Brubaker, our vice 2 chairman, chief operating officer and director, is also a member of the Board of Directors of GMC and its vice chairman and chief operating officer. George Stelljes III, our president, chief investment officer and director, is a member of the Board of Directors of GMC and its president and chief investment officer. Harry Brill, our chief financial officer, is the chief financial officer of GMC. GMC also provides investment advisory and administrative services to our affiliates Gladstone Commercial Corporation (“Gladstone Commercial”), a publicly traded real estate investment trust; Gladstone Investment Corporation (“Gladstone Investment”), a publicly traded business development company; and Gladstone Land Corporation, an agricultural real estate company owned by Mr. Gladstone. All of our directors and executive officers serve as either directors or executive officers, or both, of Gladstone Commercial and Gladstone Investment. In the future, GMC may provide investment advisory and administrative services to other funds, both public and private, of which it is the sponsor. We have been externally managed by GMC pursuant to an investment advisory and administrative agreement since October 1, 2004. GMC was organized as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware on July 2, 2002, and is a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. GMC is headquartered in McLean, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, DC, and has offices in New York, New York, Chicago, Illinois, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Morristown, New Jersey, Lexington, Kentucky and Dallas, Texas. GMC also has a wholly-owned subsidiary, Gladstone Administration, LLC (“Gladstone Administration”) which employs our chief financial officer, chief compliance officer and controller and their respective staffs. Our Investment Strategy Our strategy is to make loans at favorable interest rates to small and medium-sized businesses that we believe have traditionally been underserved by conventional lenders. GMC uses the loan referral networks of Messrs. Gladstone, Stelljes and Brubaker and of its managing directors to identify and make senior and subordinated loans to borrowers that need funds to finance growth, restructure their balance sheets or effect a change of control. We believe that our business strategy will enable us to achieve a high level of current income by investing in debt securities, consisting primarily of senior notes, senior subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes of established private businesses that are backed by leveraged buyout funds, venture capital funds or others. In addition, from time to time we might acquire existing loans that meet this profile from leveraged buyout funds, venture capital funds and others. We also seek to provide our stockholders with long-term capital growth through the appreciation in the value of warrants or other equity instruments that we might receive when we make loans. We target small and medium-sized private businesses that meet certain criteria, including the potential for growth, adequate assets for loan collateral, experienced management teams with significant ownership interest in the business, adequate capitalization, profitable operations based on cash flow and potential opportunities for us to realize appreciation and gain liquidity in our various equity positions. We may achieve liquidity in an equity position through a merger or acquisition of the borrower, a public offering of the borrower’s stock or by exercising our right to require the borrower to repurchase our warrants, although we cannot assure you that we will always have these rights. We can also achieve a similar effect by requiring the borrower to pay us conditional interest, which we refer to as a success fee, upon the occurrence of certain events. Success fees are dependent upon the success of the borrower and the occurrence of a triggering event, and are paid in lieu of warrants to own common stock of the borrower. Investment Process Overview of Loan Origination and Approval Process To originate loans, GMC’s lending professionals use an extensive referral network comprised of venture capitalists, leveraged buyout funds, investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, commercial bankers and business brokers. GMC’s lending professionals review informational packages from these and other sources in search of potential financing opportunities. If a potential opportunity matches our investment objectives, the lending professionals will seek an initial screening of the opportunity from GMC’s investment committee, which is composed of Messrs. Gladstone, Brubaker and Stelljes. If the applicant passes this initial screening, the lending professionals will conduct a due diligence investigation of the applicant. Upon completion of the due diligence investigation, the lending professionals create a detailed borrower profile summarizing the prospective borrower’s historical financial statements, industry and management team and analyzing its conformity to our general investment criteria. The lending professionals then present this profile to the investment committee, which must unanimously approve each loan. Prospective Portfolio Company Characteristics We have identified certain characteristics that we believe are important to profitably lend to small and medium-sized businesses. The criteria listed below provide general guideposts for our lending and investment decisions, although not all of these criteria may be followed in each instance. 3 · Growth. In addition to generating sufficient cash flow to service its debt, a potential borrower generally will be required to establish its ability to grow its cash flow. Anticipated growth will be a key factor in determining the value ascribed to any equity position we acquire in connection with our loans. · Significant sponsor. We seek businesses in which leveraged buyout funds or venture capital funds have invested. We believe that a business in which a substantial equity sponsor has made a meaningful investment is more likely to be a good borrowing candidate. · Liquidation value of assets. Although we do not generally intend to operate as an asset-based lender, liquidation value of the assets collateralizing our loans is an important factor in each credit decision. Emphasis is placed both on tangible assets (e.g., inventory, plant, property and equipment) and intangible assets (e.g., accounts receivable, customer lists, networks, databases and recurring revenue streams). · Experienced management team. We generally require that each borrower have a management team that is experienced and properly incentivized through a significant ownership interest in the borrower. We generally will require that a borrower have, at a minimum, a strong chief executive officer and chief financial officer who have demonstrated the ability to accomplish the borrower’s objectives and implement its business plan. · Profitable or near-profitable operations. We focus on borrowers that are profitable or near-profitable at the operating level. We do not typically lend to, or invest in, start-up or other early stage companies, nor do we typically lend to, or invest in, businesses that are experiencing significant operating problems. · Exit strategy. Prior to making a loan for which we receive a warrant to purchase stock of the borrower or other yield enhancement, we analyze the potential for the borrower to experience a liquidity event that will allow us to realize value for our equity position. Liquidity events include, among other things, an initial public offering, a private sale of our financial interest, a merger or acquisition of the borrower or a purchase of our equity position by the borrower or one of its stockholders. Extensive Due Diligence GMC conducts what we believe are extensive due diligence investigations of our prospective portfolio companies and investment opportunities. Our due diligence investigation may begin with a review of publicly available information, and will generally include some or all of the following: · a review of the potential borrower’s historical and projected financial information; · interviews with management, employees, customers and vendors of the applicant; · background checks; and · research on the applicant’s products, services or particular industry. We also rely on the long-term relationships that GMC’s professionals have with venture capitalists, leveraged buyout funds, investment bankers, commercial bankers and business brokers, and on the extensive direct experiences of our executive officers and managing directors in providing debt and equity capital to small and medium-sized private businesses. Prior to closing on our investments, additional due diligence may be conducted on our behalf by attorneys, accountants or other outside advisers as appropriate. Investment Structure We typically invest in senior, senior subordinated and junior subordinated loans. Our loans typically range from $5 million to $15 million, although the size of our investments may vary as our capital base changes. Our loans generally mature within seven years and accrue interest at a fixed or variable rate that exceeds the prime rate. In the past, some of our loans have had a provision that calls for some portion of the interest payments to be deferred and added to the principal balance so that the interest is paid, together with the principal, at maturity. This form of deferred interest is often called “paid in kind” (or “PIK”) interest, and, when earned, we record PIK income as interest income and add the PIK interest to the principal balance of the loans. At present, none of our loans contain a PIK provision. To the extent possible, our loans generally are collateralized by a security interest in the borrower’s assets. In senior and subordinated loans, we do not usually have the first claim on these assets. Interest payments on loans we make will generally be made monthly or quarterly (except to the extent of any PIK interest) with amortization of principal generally being deferred for several years. The 4 principal amount of the loans and any accrued but unpaid interest will generally become due at maturity at five to seven years. We seek to make loans that are accompanied by warrants to purchase stock in the borrowers or other yield enhancement features, such as success fees. Any warrants that we receive will typically have an exercise price equal to the fair value of the portfolio company’s common stock at the time of the loan and entitle us to purchase a modest percentage of the borrower’s stock. Success fees are conditional interest that is paid if the borrower is successful. The success fee is calculated as additional interest on the loan and is paid upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, such as the sale of the borrower. If the event or events do not occur, no success fee will be paid. From time to time, a portfolio company may request additional financing, providing us with additional lending opportunities. We will consider such requests for additional financing under the criteria we have established for initial investments and we anticipate that any debt securities we acquire in a follow-on financing will have characteristics comparable to those issued in the original financing. In some situations, our failure, inability or decision not to make a follow-on investment may be detrimental to the operations or survival of a portfolio company, and thus may jeopardize our investment in that borrower. As noted above, we expect to receive yield enhancements in connection with many of our loans, which may include warrants to purchase stock. If a financing is successful, not only will our debt securities have been repaid with interest, but we will be in a position to realize a gain on the accompanying equity interests or other yield enhancements. The opportunity to realize such gain may occur if the borrower is sold to new owners or if it makes a public offering of its stock. In most cases, we will not have the right to require that a borrower undergo an initial public offering by registering securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the “Securities Act”), but we generally will have the right to sell our equity interests in any subsequent public offering by the borrower. Even when we have the right to participate in a borrower’s public offering, the underwriters might insist, particularly if we own a large amount of equity securities, that we retain all or a substantial portion of our shares for a specified period of time. Moreover, we may decide not to sell an equity position even when we have the right and the opportunity to do so. Thus, although we expect to dispose of an equity interest after a certain time, situations may arise in which we hold equity securities for a longer period. Temporary Investments Pending investment in the debt of private companies, we invest our otherwise uninvested cash primarily in cash, cash items, government securities or high-quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, to which we refer collectively as temporary investments, so that 70% of our assets are “qualifying assets” for purposes of the business development company provisions of the 1940 Act. For information regarding regulations to which we are subject and the definition of “qualifying assets,” see “Regulation as a Business Development Company.” Hedging Strategies Although it has not yet happened, nor do we expect this to happen in the near future, when one of our portfolio companies goes public, we may undertake hedging strategies with regard to any equity interests that we may have in that company. We may mitigate risks associated with the volatility of publicly traded securities by, for instance, selling securities short or writing or buying call or put options. Hedging against a decline in the value of such investments in public companies would not eliminate fluctuations in the values of such investments or prevent losses if the values of such investments decline, but would establish other investments designed to gain from those same developments. Therefore, by engaging in hedging transactions, we can moderate the decline in the value of our hedged investments in public companies. However, such hedging transactions would also limit our opportunity to gain from an increase in the value of our investment in the public company. Pursuant to our initial line of credit, we have agreed to enter into hedging transactions, such as interest rate cap agreements, in connection with the borrowings that we make under our line of credit. To date, we hold only one interest rate cap agreement. In the event that we securitize a portion of our loan portfolio in the future, we believe that we will likely be required to enter into similar arrangements with respect to the securitized loans. Hedging strategies do pose risks to us and our stockholders, however we believe that such activities, because they will be limited to only a portion of our portfolio, are manageable. Section 12(a)(3) of the 1940 Act prohibits us from effecting a short sale of any security “in contravention of such rules and regulations or orders as U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors . . .” However, to date, the SEC has not promulgated regulations under this statute. It is possible that such regulations could be promulgated in the future in a way that would require us to change any hedging strategies that we may adopt. We will only engage in hedging activities in compliance with applicable law and regulations. Competition A large number of entities compete with us and make the types of investments that we seek to make in small and medium-sized privately-owned businesses. Such competitors include private equity funds, leveraged buyout funds, venture capital funds, investment 5 banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds, and other financing sources, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have considerably greater funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and build their market shares. Furthermore, many of these competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. Recently we have seen an increase in our competition such that terms and rates for proposed loans have been reduced. However, we believe that our extensive loan referral network and flexible transaction structuring enable us to compete effectively for opportunities in the current market environment. Extensive Loan Referral Network Our executive officers and GMC’s managing directors have an extensive referral network of venture capitalists, leveraged buyout funds, investment bankers, attorneys, commercial bankers and business and financial brokers. We believe that this established network, consisting of relationships established over many years by Messrs. Gladstone, Stelljes, and Brubaker and GMC’s managing directors will generate opportunities to identify and make senior and subordinated loans to selected businesses that satisfy our investment criteria. We intend to continue to pursue additional informal relationships with other leveraged buyout funds and venture capital funds that we believe may lead to the origination of loans. Flexible Transaction Structuring We believe that we are well-positioned to provide financing to small and medium-sized businesses that are undergoing a change of ownership, including management-led and third party leveraged buyouts, and to those businesses that have good growth characteristics. We are not limited by the capital and other regulatory requirements of the banking and savings and loan industries and we have relatively low overhead and administrative expenses. Moreover, our strategy of seeking yield enhancements, such as success fees, is intended to closely align our interests with those of our portfolio companies, thereby reducing transaction costs, conveying our commitment to our borrowers and enhancing our attractiveness as a financing source. Perhaps most importantly, we believe that we have the experience and expertise to satisfy the financing needs of such businesses. In particular, we believe that we may realize a competitive advantage in this area from Mr. Gladstone’s more than 25 years of experience in financing small to medium-sized private businesses, Mr. Stelljes’ 19 years of financing these types of businesses, and Mr. Brubaker’s extensive experience in acquisitions and operations. As a business development company, we are subject to certain general restrictions on investing in any portfolio company in which our affiliates currently have an investment, or making co-investments with our affiliates. However, in certain circumstances, we may co-invest in a portfolio company in which one of our affiliates has or will have an investment, subject to satisfaction of any regulatory restrictions and to the prior approval of our Board of Directors. Leverage For the purpose of making investments other than temporary investments and to take advantage of favorable interest rates, we intend to issue senior debt securities (including borrowings under our current lines of credit) up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act currently permits us to issue senior debt securities and preferred stock, to which we refer collectively as senior securities, in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. We may also incur such indebtedness to repurchase our common stock. As a result of issuing senior securities, we are exposed to the risks of leverage. Although borrowing money for investments increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of a loss. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a greater impact on the value of our common stock to the extent that we have borrowed money to make investments. There is a possibility that the costs of borrowing could exceed the income we receive on the investments we make with such borrowed funds. In addition, our ability to pay dividends or incur additional indebtedness would be restricted if asset coverage is less than twice our indebtedness. If the value of our assets declines, we might be unable to satisfy that test. If this happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our loan portfolio and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when a sale may be disadvantageous. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness will not be available for distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors is authorized to provide for the issuance of preferred stock with such preferences, powers, rights and privileges as it deems appropriate, provided that such an issuance adheres to the requirements of the 1940 Act. We have also filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering up to $75 million of common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, of which $48.8 million remains available for issuance as of December 1, 2006. See “Regulation as a Business Development Company—Asset Coverage” for a discussion of our leveraging constraints. 6 Securitization We have a wholly-owned subsidiary, Gladstone Business Loan LLC, “Business Loan,” which acquires and holds loans that we anticipate will be securitized in the future. Business Loan entered into a credit agreement with a group of institutional lenders that provides for a $100 million revolving credit facility. We use these proceeds to make additional loans and increase the size of our loan portfolio. We currently intend to securitize all of the loans held by Business Loan and, if we are able to securitize these loans, we will use the proceeds from the securitization to pay down any amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility. On September 22, 2006, we increased our revolving credit facility by $50 million to $150 million. Ongoing Relationships with and Monitoring of Portfolio Companies Monitoring GMC’s investment professionals monitor the financial trends of each portfolio company on an ongoing basis to determine if each is meeting its respective business plans and to assess the appropriate course of action for each company. We monitor this information regarding the status and performance of each portfolio company, and use it to evaluate the overall performance of our portfolio, on at least a quarterly basis. GMC employs various methods of evaluating and monitoring the performance of our investments, which generally include but are not limited to the following: · Assessment of success in the portfolio company’s overall adherence to its business plan and compliance with covenants; · Attendance at and participation in meetings of the portfolio company’s board of directors; · Periodic contact, including formal update interviews with portfolio company management, and, if appropriate, the financial or strategic sponsor; · Comparison with other companies in the portfolio company’s industry; and · Review of monthly and quarterly financial statements and financial projections for portfolio companies. Managerial Assistance As a business development company, we are required to make available significant managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. Managerial assistance may be provided by obtaining board seats of portfolio companies, attending board meetings as an observer as well as providing general business guidance in the management of the business. We provide these services through GMC, who provides these services on our behalf through its officers, who are also our officers. GMC may provide other services to our portfolio companies such as investment banking services, reviewing existing credit facilities, arranging bank financing, arranging equity financing, structuring financing from multiple lenders and investors, structuring financing from equity investors, restructuring existing loans, raising equity and debt capital, turnaround management, merger and acquisition services, closely monitoring the operations of the borrower, and recruiting new management personnel. To date, neither we nor GMC has received fees in connection with managerial assistance. Any fees received for managerial assistance in the future would either be received by us directly, or received by GMC directly and credited against investment advisory fees owed to GMC. GMC does receive fees for certain other services it provides to our portfolio companies, which are credited against the investment advisory fees that we owe to GMC. Valuation Process The following is a general description of the steps we take each quarter to determine the value of our investment portfolio. All of our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by GMC and our management using procedures established by, and under the direction of our Board of Directors. As a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments, and our estimates of fair value may differ significantly from the values that could obtained if a ready market for the securities existed. Investments for which market quotations are readily available are recorded in our financial statements at such market quotations. With respect to any investments for which market quotations are not readily available, we follow the following valuation process each quarter: · Our quarterly valuation process begins with each portfolio company or investment being initially assessed by GMC’s investment professionals responsible for the investment, using valuation policies and procedures previously established by our Board of Directors. · For all debt securities other than those that we value using the latest bid and ask price, we will seek an independent opinion of value of such debt securities from SPSE. 7 · Preliminary valuation conclusions are then discussed with our management, and documented, along with any SPSE opinions of value, for review by our Board of Directors. · Our Board of Directors reviews this documentation and discusses the input of GMC, management, and the opinions of value of SPSE to arrive at a determination for the aggregate fair value of our portfolio of investments. Our valuation policies, procedures and processes are more fully described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Investment Valuation.” Investment Advisory Agreements Since October 1, 2004, we have been externally managed pursuant to a contractual investment advisory arrangement with GMC, under which GMC has directly employed all of our personnel and paid its payroll, benefits, and general expenses directly. Our initial investment advisory agreement with GMC was in place from October 1, 2004 through September 30, 2006 (the “Initial Advisory Agreement”). On October 1, 2006, we entered into an amended and restated investment advisory agreement with GMC (the “Amended Advisory Agreement”) and an administration agreement with Gladstone Administration (the “Administration Agreement”). Our Board of Directors proposed the Amended Advisory Agreement to stockholders in order to provide what it considers to be more appropriate incentives to reward fund management, and our stockholders approved each of these agreements on December 2, 2005. The management services and fees in effect under the Initial and Amended Advisory Agreements are described below. In addition to the fees described below, certain fees received by GMC from our portfolio companies were credited against the investment advisory fee under the Initial Advisory Agreement, and will continue to be paid to GMC and credited under the Amended Advisory Agreement. In addition, we will continue to pay our direct expenses including, but not limited to, directors fees, legal and accounting fees, and stockholder related expenses under the Amended Advisory Agreement. Management services and fees in effect through September 30, 2006 Pursuant to the Initial Advisory Agreement, we paid GMC an annual advisory fee of 1.25% of our total assets (as reduced by cash and cash equivalents pledged to creditors), payable in quarterly increments of 0.3125%, and an annual administrative fee of 0.75% of our total assets (as reduced by cash and cash equivalents pledged to creditors), payable in quarterly increments of 0.1875%. GMC’s Board of Directors agreed to waive, for the quarters ending June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, the annual advisory fee of 1.25% to 0.5% for those senior syndicated loans in which we had existing syndicated second lien participations. Management services and fees under the amended and restated investment advisory agreement Effective October 1, 2006, we now pay GMC an annual base management fee of 2% of our average gross assets, which is defined as total assets less cash and cash equivalents pledged to creditors calculated as of the end of the two most recently completed fiscal quarters, in addition to a two-part incentive fee. The first part of the incentive fee is an income-based incentive fee which rewards GMC if our quarterly net investment income (before giving effect to any incentive fee) exceeds 1.75% of our net assets (the “hurdle rate”). We will pay GMC an income incentive fee with respect to our pre-incentive fee net investment income in each calendar quarter as follows: · no incentive fee in any calendar quarter in which our pre-incentive fee net investment income does not exceed the hurdle rate (7% annualized); · 100% of our pre-incentive fee net investment income with respect to that portion of such pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, that exceeds the hurdle rate but is less than 2.1875% in any calendar quarter (8.75% annualized); and · 20% of the amount of our pre-incentive fee net investment income, if any, that exceeds 2.1875% in any calendar quarter (8.75% annualized). The second part of the incentive fee is a capital gains incentive fee that will be determined and payable in arrears as of the end of each fiscal year (or upon termination of the Amended Advisory Agreement, as of the termination date), commencing on October 1, 2006, and will equal 20% of our realized capital gains as of the end of the fiscal year. In determining the capital gains incentive fee payable to GMC, we will calculate the cumulative aggregate realized capital gains and cumulative aggregate realized capital losses since our inception, and the aggregate unrealized capital depreciation as of the date of the calculation, as applicable, with respect to each of the investments in our portfolio. GMC’s Board of Directors has agreed to waive, for the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2006, the annual 2.0% base management fee to 0.5% for senior syndicated loan participations. 8 Under the Amended Advisory Agreement, we will pay separately for administrative services under the Administration Agreement. The Administration Agreement provides for payments equal to our allocable portion of Gladstone Administration’s overhead expenses in performing its obligations under the Administration Agreement, including but not limited to rent, and our allocable portion of the salaries and benefits expenses of our chief financial officer, chief compliance officer and controller and their respective staffs. The same individuals who managed our portfolio continue to manage our portfolio under the Amended Advisory Agreement and, although the administrative services are now provided separately pursuant to the Administration Agreement, we do not expect that our stockholders will notice any change or diminution in services because of this organizational separation. Regulations promulgated by the SEC prohibit business development companies from implementing an incentive advisory fee while having in place a stock option plan or any outstanding stock options. In connection with the approval of the Amended Advisory Agreement, and pursuant to an offer approved by our Board of Directors on April 11, 2006, we extended an offer to the then-current stock option holders to amend the terms of all outstanding stock options under our Amended and Restated 2001 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2001 Plan”) to accelerate the contractual expiration date of these options to September 30, 2006. The offer was filed with the SEC on April 12, 2006, was conducted in accordance with the federal tender offer rules and regulations, and was conditioned upon the acceptance by 100% of the current stock option holders. Our Board of Directors also accelerated in full the vesting of all outstanding options other than options held by the non-employee Directors effective April 11, 2006, resulting in accelerated vesting of 34,500 outstanding options. On May 31, 2006, 100% of the current stock option holders accepted the tender offer, and on September 30, 2006, all outstanding stock options and the 2001 Plan were terminated. Upon the effectiveness of the Amended Advisory Agreement and Administration Agreement on October 1, 2006, the Initial Advisory Agreement terminated. Board approval of the amended and restated investment advisory agreement Our Board of Directors approved the Amended Advisory Agreement at a meeting held on July 7, 2005. In its consideration of the Amended Advisory Agreement, the Board of Directors focused on information it had received relating to, among other things: the reasonableness of the advisory fee (including the incentive fee), the experience of GMC’s personnel, the potential for additional attractive investments resulting from synergies with other funds to be managed by GMC, potential savings due to economies of scale and the advantage of terminating our equity incentive plan in favor of the incentive fee arrangement. The Board of Directors considered the investment advisory and incentive fees under the Amended Advisory Agreement and the administrative fees under the Administration Agreement (the “Proposed Fees”) and information on fees charged by other investment advisers and administrators for comparable services, and determined that the Proposed Fees were reasonable in relation to the services to be provided by GMC and Gladstone Administration. In recommending that we continue to use GMC as our investment adviser, our Board of Directors considered the fact that the advisory and administrative team of GMC and Gladstone Administration were expected to be in all material respects, for at least the next year, the same as the then-current team responsible for our management and administration and the fact that our investment objectives are consistent with the investment selection process employed by GMC. In connection with its final deliberations, the Board of Directors reviewed and discussed additional materials provided by GMC in response to the Board’s request, including information regarding the services to be performed; the prior experience of GMC’s personnel in connection with the types of investments we propose to make, including such personnel’s extensive network of contacts; the size of GMC’s staff; anticipated changes in GMC’s current personnel; the compensation of such personnel; GMC’s ability to provide managerial assistance to portfolio companies; the written plan for allocating investment opportunities among GMC’s current and future clients; GMC’s operations; and GMC’s organizational capability and financial condition as evidenced by GMC’s level of service to us and to our affiliates, Gladstone Investment Corporation and Gladstone Commercial Corporation. The Board of Directors also relied upon comparisons of the services to be rendered and the amounts to be paid under the Amended Advisory Agreement with those under other investment advisory contracts, such as Gladstone Investment Corporation, which has entered into an agreement with GMC on substantially identical terms and conditions. When evaluating comparisons, the Board of Directors considered, among other things: · GMC’s strong performance, as evidenced by the fact that the total stockholder return on an investment in our common stock has historically exceeded the Standards & Poor’s 500 Index and our peer group (which is composed of Allied Capital Corporation and American Capital Strategies, Ltd.); · the high quality and extensive level of the advisory and other services that we expect GMC to continue to provide to us; · the fact that our projected operating expenses and expense ratio are equal to or lower than those of other business development companies with similar investment objectives; and · the difficulty of obtaining similar services from other third party service providers. 9 The Board of Directors acknowledged that the fees to be received by GMC under the Amended Advisory Agreement are expected to exceed GMC’s costs of providing services to us. However, the board did not attempt to quantify GMC’s level of profits (including those based on fees received from our portfolio companies) because of its satisfaction with GMC’s performance advising us. The Amended Advisory Agreement does not provide for any reduction in fees in the event that GMC experiences any economies of scale in its provision of management services to us. The Board of Directors also considered the fact that Gladstone Administration allocates the costs of providing administrative services to GMC’s externally managed funds on a pro-rata basis and, therefore, to the extent GMC recognizes economies of scale in providing administrative services to its externally managed funds, those economies of scale will also be indirectly recognized by us under the Administration Agreement. Thus, to the extent that Gladstone Administration’s costs decrease, those reductions will be passed through indirectly to us in the form of a reduced administration fee. In its consideration of the incentive fee included in the Amended Advisory Agreement, the Board of Directors focused on information it had received relating to, among other things: · the fact that the Amended Advisory Agreement provides for substantially the same fees as those paid by other business development companies with similar investment objectives and no equity incentive plans, including Gladstone Investment Corporation; · the fact that an incentive fee arrangement is more appropriate to an externally managed fund such as ours, than is a stock option program; · the fact that stockholders increasingly demand strong fund performance and are willing to reward managers for meeting those goals; · the fact that the utility of a stock option plan to reward fund management has been curtailed by recent regulations that prohibit executive officers from borrowing from an issuer to finance the exercise of their stock options; · the concern that stock options may incentivize managers (and directors who receive stock options) to manage a fund for short-run returns rather than long-term goals; · the fact that incentive fees are the predominant method used by private equity firms with whom we and GMC compete for talented professionals; · the fact that the use of incentive fees is now becoming standard among business development companies and is a compensation structure that is both understood and expected by analysts who evaluate us and our stock; and · the expectation that we and our stockholders would benefit from the removal of the dilutive effects associated with stock options, and the avoidance of the accounting charges related to stock options that are now required to be recognized as non-cash expense by us under recently adopted accounting rules. Based on the information reviewed by, and the ensuing discussions of, our Board of Directors, the board, including a majority of the non-interested directors, concluded that the investment advisory fee rates, including the incentive fee rates, were reasonable in relation to the services to be provided by GMC and Gladstone Administration. Based on its review and discussion, the board approved the Amended Advisory Agreement as being in the best interests of our stockholders. The board then directed that the Amended Advisory Agreement be submitted to stockholders for approval with the board’s recommendation that our stockholders vote to approve the Amended Advisory Agreement. Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations Regulated Investment Company Status In order to maintain the qualification for treatment as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), we must distribute to our stockholders, for each taxable year, at least 90% of our investment company taxable income, which is generally our ordinary income plus short-term capital gains. We refer to this as the annual distribution requirement. We must also meet several additional requirements, including: · Income source requirements. At least 90% of our gross income for each taxable year must be from dividends, interest, payments with respect to securities loans, gains from sales or other dispositions of securities or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in securities, and 10 · Asset diversification requirements. As of the close of each quarter of our taxable year: (1) at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash items, US government securities, the securities of other regulated investment companies and other securities to the extent that (a) we do not hold more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of an issuer of such other securities and (b) such other securities of any one issuer do not represent more than 5% of our total assets, and (2) no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may be invested in the securities of one issuer (other than US government securities or the securities of other regulated investment companies), or of two or more issuers that are controlled by us and are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses. If we are unable to qualify for treatment as a RIC, we will be subject to tax on all of our taxable income at regular corporate rates. We would not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders, nor would we be required to make such distributions. Distributions would be taxable to our stockholders as ordinary dividend income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. Subject to certain limitations under the Code, corporate distributees would be eligible for the dividends received deduction. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits would be treated first as a return of capital to the extent of the stockholder’s tax basis, and then as a gain realized from the sale or exchange of property. If we fail to meet the RIC requirements for more than two consecutive years and then seek to requalify as a RIC, we would be required to recognize a gain to the extent of any unrealized appreciation on our assets unless we make a special election to pay corporate-level tax on any such unrealized appreciation recognized during the succeeding 10-year period. Absent such special election, any gain we recognized would be deemed distributed to our stockholders as a taxable distribution. If we qualify as a RIC and distribute to stockholders each year in a timely manner at least 90% of our investment company taxable income, we will not be subject to federal income tax on the portion of our taxable income and gains we distribute to stockholders. We would, however, be subject to a 4% nondeductible federal excise tax if we do not distribute, actually or on a deemed basis, 98% of our income, including both ordinary income and capital gains. The excise tax would apply only to the amount by which 98% of our income exceeds the amount of income we distribute, actually or on a deemed basis, to stockholders. We will be subject to regular corporate income tax, currently at rates up to 35%, on any undistributed income, including both ordinary income and capital gains. We intend to retain some or all of our capital gains, but to designate the retained amount as a deemed distribution. In that case, among other consequences, we will pay tax on the retained amount, each stockholder will be required to include its share of the deemed distribution in income as if it had been actually distributed to the stockholder and the stockholder will be entitled to claim a credit or refund equal to its allocable share of the tax we pay on the retained capital gain. The amount of the deemed distribution net of such tax will be added to the stockholder’s cost basis for its common stock. Since we expect to pay tax on any retained capital gains at our regular corporate capital gain tax rate, and since that rate is in excess of the maximum rate currently payable by individuals on long-term capital gains, the amount of tax that individual stockholders will be treated as having paid will exceed the tax they owe on the capital gain dividend and such excess may be claimed as a credit or refund against the stockholder’s other tax obligations. A stockholder that is not subject to US federal income tax or tax on long-term capital gains would be required to file a US federal income tax return on the appropriate form in order to claim a refund for the taxes we paid. In order to utilize the deemed distribution approach, we must provide written notice to the stockholders prior to the expiration of 60 days after the close of the relevant tax year. We will also be subject to alternative minimum tax, but any tax preference items would be apportioned between us and our stockholders in the same proportion that dividends, other than capital gain dividends, paid to each stockholder bear to our taxable income determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction. If we acquire debt obligations that were originally issued at a discount, which would generally include loans we make that are accompanied by warrants, that bear interest at rates that are not either fixed rates or certain qualified variable rates or that are not unconditionally payable at least annually over the life of the obligation, we will be required to include in taxable income each year a portion of the “original issue discount” that accrues over the life of the obligation. Such original issue discount will be included in our investment company taxable income even though we receive no cash corresponding to such discount amount. As a result, we may be required to make additional distributions corresponding to such original issue discount amounts in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement and to continue to qualify as a RIC or to avoid the 4% excise tax. In this event, we may be required to sell temporary investments or other assets to meet the RIC distribution requirements. At September 30, 2006, none of our loans had original issue discount. For any period during which we qualify for treatment as a RIC for federal income tax purposes, distributions to our stockholders attributable to our investment company taxable income generally will be taxable as ordinary income to stockholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. Any distributions in excess of our earnings and profits will first be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the stockholder’s adjusted basis in his or her shares of common stock and thereafter as gain from the sale of shares of our common stock. Distributions of our long-term capital gains, designated by us as such, will be taxable to stockholders as long-term capital gains regardless of the stockholder’s holding period for its common stock and whether the distributions are paid in cash or invested in additional common stock. Corporate stockholders are generally eligible for the 70% dividends received deduction 11 with respect to ordinary income, but not to capital gains dividends to the extent such amount designated by us does not exceed the dividends received by us from domestic corporations. Any dividend declared by us in October, November or December of any calendar year, payable to stockholders of record on a specified date in such a month and actually paid during January of the following year, will be treated as if it were paid by us and received by the stockholders on December 31 of the previous year. In addition, we may elect to relate a dividend back to the prior taxable year if we (1) declare such dividend prior to the due date for filing our return for that taxable year, (2) make the election in that return, and (3) distribute the amount in the 12-month period following the close of the taxable year but not later than the first regular dividend payment following the declaration. Any such election will not alter the general rule that a stockholder will be treated as receiving a dividend in the taxable year in which the distribution is made, subject to the October, November, December rule described above. In general, the tax rates applicable to our dividends other than dividends designated as capital gain dividends will be the standard ordinary income tax rates, and not the lower federal income tax rate applicable to “qualified dividend income.” If we distribute dividends that are attributable to actual dividend income received by us that is eligible to be, and is, designated by us as qualified dividend income, such dividends would be eligible for such lower federal income tax rate. For this purpose, “qualified dividend income” means dividends received by us from United States corporations and qualifying foreign corporations, provided that both we and the stockholder recipient of our dividend satisfy certain holding period and other requirements in respect of our shares (in the case of our stockholder) and the stock such corporations (in our case). However, we do not anticipate receiving or distributing a significant amount of qualified dividend income. Regulation as a Business Development Company We are a closed-end, non-diversified management investment company that has elected to be regulated as a business development company under Section 54 of the 1940 Act. As such, we are subject to regulation under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act contains prohibitions and restrictions relating to transactions between business development companies and their affiliates, principal underwriters and affiliates of those affiliates or underwriters and requires that a majority of the directors be persons other than “interested persons,” as defined in the 1940 Act. In addition, the 1940 Act provides that we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or to withdraw our election as, a business development company unless approved by a majority of our outstanding voting securities. We intend to conduct our business so as to retain our status as a business development company. In general, a business development company must have been organized and have its principal place of business in the United States and must be operated for the purpose of making investments in the types of securities described in (1) or (2) below. Qualifying Assets Under the 1940 Act, a business development company may not acquire any asset other than assets of the type listed in Section 55(a) of the 1940 Act, which are referred to as qualifying assets, unless, at the time the acquisition is made, qualifying assets represent at least 70% of the company’s total assets. The types of qualifying assets in which we may invest under the 1940 Act include, but are not limited to the following: (1) Securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from the issuer of such securities, which issuer is an eligible portfolio company. An eligible portfolio company is generally defined in the 1940 Act as any issuer which (A) is organized under the laws of, and has its principal place of business in, the United States; (B) is neither an investment company as defined in Section 3 of the 1940 Act (other than a small business investment company which is licensed by the Small Business Administration to operate under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 and which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the business development company) not a company which would be an investment company except for the exclusion from the definition of investment company in Section 3(c) of the 1940 Act; and (C) satisfies one of the following: (i) it does not have any class of securities with respect to which a member of a national securities exchange, broker, or dealer may extend or maintain credit to or for a customer pursuant to rules or regulations adopted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under Section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; (ii) it is controlled by a business development company, either alone or as part of a group acting together, and such business development company in fact exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of such eligible portfolio company and, as a result of such control, has an affiliated person who is a director of such eligible portfolio company; (iii) it has total assets of not more than $4,000,000, and capital and surplus (shareholders’ equity less retained earnings) of not less than $2,000,000, except that the SEC may adjust such amounts by rule, regulation, or order to reflect changes in one or more generally accepted indices or other indicators for small businesses; or (iv) all private domestic operating companies and those public domestic operating companies whose securities are not listed on a national securities exchange. 12 (2) Securities received in exchange for or distributed on or with respect to securities described in (1) above, or pursuant to the exercise of options, warrants or rights relating to such securities. (3) Cash, cash items, government securities or high quality debt securities maturing in one year or less from the time of investment. Asset Coverage We are permitted, under specified conditions, to issue multiple classes of indebtedness and one class of stock senior to our common stock if our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% immediately after each such issuance. In addition, while senior securities are outstanding, we must make provisions to prohibit any distribution to our stockholders or the repurchase of such securities or shares unless we meet the applicable asset coverage ratios at the time of the distribution or repurchase. We may also borrow amounts up to 5% of the value of our total assets for temporary purposes. The 1940 Act requires, among other things, that (1) immediately after issuance and before any dividend or distribution is made with respect to our common stock or before any purchase of common stock is made, the preferred stock, together with all other senior securities, must not exceed an amount equal to 50% of our total assets after deducting the amount of such dividend, distribution or purchase price, as the case may be, and (2) the holders of shares of preferred stock, if any are issued, must be entitled as a class to elect two directors at all times and to elect a majority of the directors if dividends on the preferred stock are in arrears by two years or more. Significant Managerial Assistance For portfolio securities to be qualifying assets for the 70% test described above, the business development company must either exercise a controlling influence over the issuer of the securities or must make available to the issuer of the securities significant managerial assistance. However, with respect to certain but not all such securities, where the business development company purchases such securities in conjunction with one or more other persons acting together, one of the other persons in the group may make available such managerial assistance, or the business development company may exercise such control jointly. Making available significant managerial assistance means, among other things, any arrangement whereby the business development company, through its directors, officers or employees, offers to provide, and, if accepted, does so provide, significant guidance and counsel concerning the management, operations or business objectives and policies of a portfolio company. Fundamental Investment Policies We seek to achieve a high level of current income by investing in debt securities, consisting primarily of senior notes, senior subordinated notes and junior subordinated notes of established private businesses that are backed by leveraged buyout funds, venture capital funds or others, with a particular emphasis on senior and subordinated notes. We also seek to provide our stockholders with long-term capital growth through the appreciation in the value of warrants or other equity instruments that we may receive when we make loans. The following restrictions, along with these investment objectives, are our only fundamental policies, which are policies that may not be changed without the approval of the holders of the majority of our outstanding voting securities, as defined in the 1940 Act. The percentage restrictions set forth below, other than the restriction pertaining to the issuance of senior securities, as well as those contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K, apply at the time we effect a transaction, and a subsequent change in a percentage resulting from market fluctuations or any cause other than an action by us will not require us to dispose of portfolio securities or to take other action to satisfy the percentage restriction. We will at all times conduct our business so as to retain our status as a business development company. In order to retain that status, we may not acquire any assets (other than non-investment assets necessary and appropriate to our operations as a business development company) if, after giving effect to such acquisition, the value of our “qualifying assets” is less than 70% of the value of our total assets. We anticipate that the securities we seek to acquire (provided that we control or, through our officers or other participants in the financing transaction, make significant managerial assistance available to the issuers of these securities), as well as temporary investments, will generally be qualifying assets. We may invest up to 100% of our assets in securities acquired directly from issuers in privately negotiated transactions. With respect to such securities, we may, for the purpose of public resale, be deemed an “underwriter” as that term is defined in the Securities Act. We may invest up to 20% of our assets in securities of a particular issuer. We may exceed this limitation in connection with bridge financings, although these bridge investments will never exceed 25% of our total assets at any time. We do not intend to concentrate our investments in any particular industry or group of industries. However, it is possible that, as the values of our portfolio companies change, one industry or a group of industries may comprise in excess of 25% of the value of our total assets. We will at all times endeavor to conduct our business so as to retain our status as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. In order to do so, we must meet income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. We may issue senior securities, such as debt or preferred stock, to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act for the purpose of making investments, to fund share repurchases, or 13 for temporary emergency or other purposes. For a discussion of the risks associated with the resulting leverage, see “—Leverage” and “Risk Factors—Our business plan is dependent upon external financing which may expose us to risks associated with leverage.” We will not (1) act as an underwriter of securities of other issuers (except to the extent that we may be deemed an “underwriter” of securities we purchase that must be registered under the Securities Act before they may be offered or sold to the public); (2) purchase or sell real estate or interests in real estate or real estate investment trusts (except that we may (a) purchase and sell real estate or interests in real estate in connection with the orderly liquidation of investments, (b) own the securities of companies or participate in a partnership or partnerships that are in the business of buying, selling or developing real estate, or (c) finance the purchase of real estate by our portfolio companies); (3) sell securities short (except with regard to managing the risks associated with publicly-traded securities issued by our portfolio companies); (4) purchase securities on margin (except to the extent that we may purchase securities with borrowed money); (5) write or buy put or call options (except (i) to the extent of warrants or conversion privileges in connection with our acquisition financing or other investments and rights to require the issuers of such investments or their affiliates to repurchase them under certain circumstances, (ii) with regard to managing risks associated with publicly-traded securities issued by our portfolio companies, or (iii) with regard to managing the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations); (6) engage in the purchase or sale of commodities or commodity contracts, including futures contracts (except where necessary in working out distressed loan or investment situations or in managing the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations); or (7) acquire more than 3% of the voting stock of, or invest more than 5% of our total assets in, any securities issued by any other investment company (except as they may be acquired as part of a merger, consolidation or acquisition of assets). That portion of our investments that is in securities issued by other investment companies may subject our stockholders to additional expenses. Code of Ethics We and GMC have each adopted a code of ethics and business conduct applicable to our officers, directors and all employees of GMC that complies with the guidelines set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act. As required by the 1940 Act, this code establishes procedures for personal investments, restricts certain transactions by our personnel and requires the reporting of certain transactions and holdings by our personnel. A copy of this code is available for review, free of charge, at our website at www.GladstoneCapital.com. We intend to provide any required disclosure of any amendments to or waivers of the provisions of this code by posting information regarding any such amendment or waiver to our website within four days of its effectiveness. Compliance Policies and Procedures We and GMC have adopted and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws, and our Board of Directors is required to review these compliance policies and procedures annually to assess their adequacy and the effectiveness of their implementation. We have designated a chief compliance officer, Allyson Williams, who also serves as chief compliance officer for GMC. Staffing We do not currently have any employees and do not expect to have any employees in the foreseeable future. Currently, services necessary for our business are provided by individuals who are employees of GMC and Gladstone Administration pursuant to the terms of the Amended Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement, respectively. Each of our executive officers is an employee and executive officer of GMC and Gladstone Administration. No employee of GMC or Gladstone Administration will dedicate all of his or her time to us. However, we expect that 20-25 full time employees of GMC or Gladstone Administration will spend substantial time on our matters during the remainder of calendar year 2006 and all of calendar year 2007. We anticipate that the number of employees of GMC who devote time to our matters will increase as we acquire more investments. Effective October 1, 2006, with our entrance into the Amended Advisory Agreement and Administration Agreement, as approved by our stockholders on December 2, 2005, accounting and compliance services are provided by the same individuals who currently provide these services to us, however these individuals now provide these services to us through Gladstone Administration pursuant to the Administration Agreement. All other services will continue to be performed by the same individuals under the Amended Advisory Agreement. As of December 1, 2006, GMC and Gladstone Administration had 46 full-time employees, a breakdown of these full-time employees is summarized by functional area in the table below: 14 Number of Individuals Functional Area 6 Executive Management 31 Investment Management, Portfolio Management, and Due Diligence 9 Administration, Accounting, Compliance, Human Resources, and Treasury Available Information Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments, if any, to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge through our website at www.GladstoneCapital.com. A request for any of these reports may also be submitted to us by sending a written request addressed to Corporate Secretary, Gladstone Capital Corporation, 1521 Westbranch Drive, Suite 200, McLean, VA 22102, or by calling our toll-free investor relations line at 1-866-366-5745. The public may read and copy materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of significant risks and other factors relating to our structure and investment objectives. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives. You should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. We are dependent upon our key management personnel and the key management personnel of GMC, particularly David Gladstone, George Stelljes III and Terry Lee Brubaker, and on the continued operations of GMC, for our future success. We have no employees. Our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief investment officer and chief financial officer, and the employees of GMC, do not spend all of their time managing our activities and our investment portfolio. We are particularly dependent upon David Gladstone, George Stelljes III and Terry Lee Brubaker in this regard. Our executive officers and the employees of GMC allocate some, and in some cases a material portion, of their time to businesses and activities that are not related to our business. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on GMC, which has significant discretion as to the implementation and execution of our business strategies and risk management practices. We are subject to the risk of discontinuation of GMC’s operations or termination of the investment advisory agreement and the risk that, upon such event, no suitable replacement will be found. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon GMC and that discontinuation of its operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Our incentive fee may induce GMC to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The management compensation structure that has been implemented under the Amended Advisory Agreement with GMC may cause GMC to invest in high risk investments or take other risks. In addition to its management fee, GMC is entitled under the Amended Advisory Agreement to receive incentive compensation based in part upon our achievement of specified levels of income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead GMC to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining sufficient liquidity, or management of credit risk or market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio. We may be obligated to pay GMC incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. On October 1, 2006, the Amended Advisory Agreement became effective and entitles GMC to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation, net operating losses and certain other items) above a threshold return for that quarter. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay GMC incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that 15 quarter. For additional information on incentive compensation under the Amended Advisory Agreement with GMC, see “Business — Investment Advisory Agreement — Management services and fees under the amended and restated investment advisory agreement.” GMC’s failure to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria or perform its responsibilities under the Amended Advisory Agreement may adversely affect our ability for future growth. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to grow, which in turn will depend on GMC’s ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of GMC’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior management team of GMC has substantial responsibilities under the Amended Advisory Agreement. In order to grow, GMC will need to hire, train supervise and manage new employees successfully. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us and make the types of investments that we seek to make in small and medium-sized privately owned businesses. We compete with a large number of private equity funds, leveraged buyout funds and venture capital funds, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds, and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. Furthermore, many of our potential competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our investment objectives or that we will be able to fully invest our available capital. Our business model is dependent upon developing and sustaining strong referral relationships with leveraged buyout funds and venture capital funds. We are dependent upon informal relationships with leveraged buyout funds, venture capital funds, and traditional lending institutions to provide us with deal flow. If we fail to maintain our relationship with such funds or institutions, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other funds, we will not be able to grow our portfolio of loans and fully execute our business plan. Our loans to small and medium-sized borrowers are extremely risky and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Loans to small and medium-sized borrowers are subject to a number of significant risks including the following: · Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited financial resources and may not be able to repay the loans we make to them. Our strategy includes providing financing to borrowers that typically is not readily available to them. While we believe that this provides an attractive opportunity for us to generate profits, this may make it difficult for the borrowers to repay their loans to us upon maturity. A borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. A deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects usually will be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained from the borrower’s management. Although we will sometimes seek to be the senior, secured lender to a borrower, in most of our loans we expect to be subordinated to a senior lender, and our interest in any collateral would, accordingly, likely be subordinate to another lender’s security interest. · Small and medium-sized businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. Because our target borrowers are smaller businesses, they will tend to be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, our portfolio companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing and other capabilities and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. 16 · There is generally little or no publicly available information about these businesses. Because we seek to make loans to privately owned businesses, there is generally little or no publicly available operating and financial information about our potential borrowers. As a result, we rely on our officers, GMC and its employees and consultants to perform due diligence investigations of these borrowers, their operations and their prospects. We may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses through our investigations. · Small and medium-sized businesses generally have less predictable operating results. We expect that our borrowers may have significant variations in their operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by their senior lenders. A borrower’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by senior lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, foreclosure on its senior credit facility, which could additionally trigger cross-defaults in other agreements. If this were to occur, it is possible that the borrower’s ability to repay our loan would be jeopardized. · Small and medium-sized businesses are more likely to be dependent on one or two persons. Typically, the success of a small or medium-sized business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our borrower and, in turn, on us. · Small and medium-sized businesses are likely to have greater exposure to economic downturns than larger businesses. We expect that our borrowers will have fewer resources than larger businesses and an economic downturn is more likely to have a material adverse effect on them. If one of our borrowers is adversely impacted by an economic downturn, its ability to repay our loan would be diminished. · Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited operating histories. While we intend to target stable companies with proven track records, we may make loans to new companies that meet our other investment criteria. Borrowers with limited operating histories will be exposed to all of the operating risks that new businesses face and may be particularly susceptible to, among other risks, market downturns, competitive pressures and the departure of key executive officers. We may not realize gains from our equity investments and other yield enhancements. When we make a subordinated loan, we may receive warrants to purchase stock issued by the borrower or other yield enhancements, such as success fees (conditional interest). Our goal is to ultimately dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. We expect that, over time, the gains we realize on these warrants and other yield enhancements will offset any losses we experience on loan defaults. However, any warrants we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value and any other yield enhancements, such as success fees, may not be realized. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests or other yield enhancements and any gains we do recognize may not be sufficient to offset losses we experience on our loan portfolio. Because the loans we make and equity securities we receive when we make loans are not publicly traded, there will be uncertainty regarding the value of our privately held securities that could adversely affect our determination of our net asset value. A large percentage of our portfolio investments are, and will continue to be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. Our Board of Directors has established a valuation policy and consistently applied valuation procedures used to determine the fair value of these securities quarterly. These procedures for the determination of value of many of our debt securities rely on the opinions of value submitted to us by Standard & Poor’s Securities Evaluations, Inc., which we refer to as SPSE. SPSE will only evaluate the debt portion of our investments for which we specifically request evaluation, and SPSE may decline to make requested evaluations for any reason in its sole discretion. However, to date, SPSE has accepted each of our requests for evaluation. Our procedures also include provisions whereby GMC will establish the fair value of any equity securities we may hold where SPSE is unable to provide evaluations. The types of factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our debt and equity investments include some or all of the following: the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and cash flows and its ability to make payments on its obligations, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow, and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, particularly valuations of 17 private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time, and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that might have resulted from a readily available market for these securities. In the future, we anticipate that a small portion of our assets may consist of equity securities that are valued based on internal assessment, using our own, Board of Directors’ approved valuation methods, without the input of SPSE or any other third-party evaluator. We believe that our equity valuation methods reflect those regularly used as standards by other professionals in our industry who value equity securities. However, determination of fair value for securities that are not publicly traded, whether or not we use the recommendations of an independent third party evaluator, necessarily involves the exercise of subjective judgment. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. The lack of liquidity of our privately held investments may adversely affect our business. Most of our investments presently consist of, and will continue to consist of, loans and warrants acquired in private transactions directly from borrowers or from the originators of loans to such borrowers. Substantially all of the investments we presently hold are, and the investments we expect to acquire in the future will be, subject to restrictions on resale, including, in some instances, legal restrictions, or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to quickly obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments if the need arises. This could cause us to miss important business opportunities. In addition, if we are required to quickly liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we, GMC, or our respective officers, employees or affiliates have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing these securities, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would exist if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be materially affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that we ultimately realize on our disposal of such securities. Our portfolio is concentrated in a limited number of companies and industries, which subjects us to an increased risk of significant loss if any one of these companies does not repay us or if the industries experience downturns. As of September 30, 2006 we had loans outstanding to 32 portfolio companies. A consequence of a limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be substantially adversely affected by the unfavorable performance of a small number of such loans or a substantial writedown of any one investment. Beyond our regulatory and income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for industry concentration and our investments could potentially be concentrated in relatively few industries. In addition, while we do not intend to invest 25% or more of our total assets in a particular industry or group of industries at the time of investment, it is possible that as the values of our portfolio companies change, one industry or a group of industries may comprise in excess of 25% of the value of our total assets. As a result, a downturn in an industry in which we have made multiple loans could have a materially adverse effect on us. Our business plan is dependent upon external financing which may expose us to risks associated with leverage. Our business requires a substantial amount of cash to operate and grow. We may acquire such additional capital from the following sources: · Senior Securities. We intend to issue debt securities, other evidences of indebtedness (including borrowings under our line of credit) and possibly preferred stock, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act currently permits us, as a business development company, to issue debt securities and preferred stock, to which we refer collectively as senior securities, in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we will be exposed to the risks associated with leverage. Although borrowing money for investments increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of a loss. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a greater impact on the value of our common stock to the extent that we have borrowed money to make investments. There is a possibility that the costs of borrowing could exceed the income we receive on the investments we make with such borrowed funds. In addition, our ability to pay dividends or incur additional indebtedness would be restricted if asset coverage is not at least twice our indebtedness. If the value of our assets declines, we might be unable to satisfy that test. If this happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our loan portfolio and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when a sale may be disadvantageous. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness will not be available for distributions to our stockholders. 18 · Common Stock. Because we are constrained in our ability to issue debt for the reasons given above, we are dependent on the issuance of equity as a financing source. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or debt securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance would decrease and they may experience dilution. In addition, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. · Securitization. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we anticipate that in the future we will securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and impact our profitability. Moreover, successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the loans in which we do not plan to sell interests will be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and our hedging strategy may expose us to additional risks. We anticipate using a combination of equity and long-term and short-term borrowings to finance our lending activities. As a result, a portion of our income will depend upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we loan these funds. Certain of our borrowings may be at fixed rates and others at variable rates. Ultimately, we expect approximately 20% of the loans in our portfolio to be at fixed rates and approximately 80% to be at variable rates determined on the basis of a benchmark prime rate. As of September 30, 2006, our portfolio had approximately 65% of the total of the loan cost value at variable rates with a floor, approximately 3% of the total loan cost value at variable rates with a floor and ceiling, and the remaining 32% at variable rates. Pursuant to our initial line of credit, we have agreed to enter into hedging transactions such as interest rate cap agreements, futures, options and forward contracts. To date, we hold only one interest rate cap agreement. In the event that we securitize a portion of our loan portfolio in the future, we believe that we will likely be required to enter into similar arrangements with respect to the securitized loans. While hedging activities may insulate us against adverse fluctuations in interest rates, they may also limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our credit facility imposes certain limitations on us. We will have a continuing need for capital to finance our loans. In order to maintain RIC status, we will be required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains on an annual basis. Accordingly, such earnings will not be available to fund additional loans. Therefore, we are party to a credit agreement arranged by Deutsche Bank AG as the structuring agent. The agreement provides us with a revolving credit line facility of $150 million. In the future, borrowings outstanding on the credit line facility may be repaid with the proceeds we may receive from securitizing some or all of the loans in our portfolio for long-term funding. The line of credit facility will permit us to fund additional loans and investments as long as we are within the conditions set out in the credit agreement. As a result of the line of credit facility, we are subject to certain limitations on the type of loan investments we make, including restrictions on geographic concentrations, sector concentrations, loan size, payment frequency and status, and average life. Our failure to satisfy these limitations could result in foreclosure by our lenders which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investments are typically long term and will require several years to realize liquidation events. Since we generally intend to make five to seven year term loans and hold our loans and related warrants or other yield enhancements until the loans mature, you should not expect realization events, if any, to occur over the near term. In addition, we expect that any warrants or other yield enhancements that we receive when we make loans may require several years to appreciate in value and we cannot give any assurance that such appreciation will occur. Prepayments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. In addition to risks associated with delays in investing our capital, we are also subject to the risk that investments that we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. We will first use any proceeds from prepayments to repay any borrowings outstanding on our line of credit. In the event that funds remain after repayment of our outstanding borrowings, then we will generally reinvest these proceeds in government securities, pending their future investment in new debt securities. These government securities will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt securities being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in 19 reinvesting these amounts. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We will be subject to corporate level tax if we are unable to satisfy Internal Revenue Code requirements for RIC qualification. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must meet income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use leverage, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and could, under certain circumstances, be restricted from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. Warrants we receive with respect to debt investments will create “original issue discount,” which we must recognize as ordinary income, increasing the amounts we are required to distribute to maintain RIC status. Because such warrants will not produce distributable cash for us at the same time as we are required to make distributions in respect of the related original issue discount, we will need to use cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements. The asset diversification requirements must be met at the end of each calendar quarter. If we fail to meet these tests, we may need to quickly dispose of certain investments to prevent the loss of RIC status. Since most of our investments will be illiquid, such dispositions, if even possible, may not be made at prices advantageous to us and, in fact, may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become fully subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount distributed. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our shares. For additional information regarding asset coverage ratio and RIC requirements, see “Business—Leverage” and “Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Regulated Investment Company Status.” There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and the officers and directors of our investment adviser, GMC, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, Mr. Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of GMC, Gladstone Investment and Gladstone Commercial. In addition, Mr. Brubaker, our vice chairman, chief operating officer and secretary is either the vice chairman or president, and the chief operating officer and secretary of GMC, Gladstone Investment and Gladstone Commercial. Mr. Stelljes, our president and chief investment officer, is also either the president or executive vice president, and the chief investment officer, of GMC, Gladstone Investment and Gladstone Commercial. Moreover, GMC may establish or sponsor other investment vehicles which from time to time may have potentially overlapping investment objectives with those of ours and accordingly may invest in, whether principally or secondarily, asset classes similar to those we targeted. While GMC generally has broad authority to make investments on behalf of the investment vehicles that it advises, GMC has adopted investment allocation procedures to address these potential conflicts and intends to direct investment opportunities to the Gladstone affiliate with the investment strategy that most closely fits the investment opportunity. Nevertheless, the management of GMC may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to other entities managed by GMC. As a result, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by other members of the Gladstone Companies or investment funds managed by investment managers affiliated with GMC. In certain circumstances, we may make investments in a portfolio company in which one of our affiliates has or will have an investment, subject to satisfaction of any regulatory restrictions and, where required, to the prior approval of our Board of Directors. As of September 30, 2006, our Board of Directors has approved the following types of co-investment transactions: 20 · Our affiliate, Gladstone Commercial, may purchase property from or lease property to portfolio companies that we do not control under certain circumstances. We may pursue such transactions only if (i) the portfolio company is not controlled by us or any of our affiliates, (ii) the portfolio company satisfies the tenant underwriting criteria or owns real estate that meets the lease underwriting criteria of Gladstone Commercial, and (iii) the transaction is approved by a majority of our independent directors and a majority of the independent directors of Gladstone Commercial. We expect that any such negotiations between Gladstone Commercial and our portfolio companies would result in lease terms consistent with the terms that the portfolio companies would be likely to receive were they not portfolio companies of ours. However, if Gladstone Commercial provides a lease to a current or prospective portfolio company of ours, it is likely that there will be a conflict of interest in connection with such a transaction. There is a risk that, for Gladstone Commercial to provide a lease to a portfolio company, there could be situations where we enter into a transaction that is riskier than we would customarily make in order to enable Gladstone Commercial, or another affiliate, to provide the lease portion of the financing; this carries a greater risk of default. If any of these risks were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate cash flow to make distributions to stockholders. · We may invest simultaneously with our affiliate Gladstone Investment in senior syndicated loans whereby neither we nor any affiliate has the ability to dictate the terms of the loans. In this regard, GMC has implemented allocation procedures designed to ensure the fair and equitable treatment of all the funds it manages. Certain of our officers, who are also officers of GMC, may from time to time serve as directors of certain of our portfolio companies. If an officer serves in such capacity with one of our portfolio companies, such officer will owe fiduciary duties to all shareholders of the portfolio company, which duties may from time to time conflict with the interests of our stockholders. In the course of our investing activities, we will pay management and incentive fees to GMC and will reimburse Gladstone Administration for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through our investors themselves making direct investments. As a result of this arrangement, there may be times when the management team of GMC has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. For additional information regarding the regulations to which we are subject, see “Business—Regulation as a Business Development Company” and “Business—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Regulated Investment Company Status.” We may experience fluctuation in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors including, among others, the interest rates payable on our debt securities, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the level of our expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. Our current intention is to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on a quarterly basis. We expect to retain net realized long-term capital gains to supplement our equity capital and support the growth of our portfolio, although our Board of Directors may determine in certain cases to distribute these gains. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. 21 Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and adversely impact the price of our shares. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making more difficult a change in control and preventing the removal of incumbent directors. The existence of these provisions may negatively impact the price of our shares and may discourage third-party bids. These provisions may reduce any premiums paid to you for our shares. Furthermore, we are subject to Section 3-602 of the Maryland General Corporation Law which governs business combinations with interested stockholders and could delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, our Board of Directors is elected in staggered terms which makes it more difficult for a hostile bidder to acquire control of us. The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following: · price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of shares of RICs, business development companies or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; · changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; · loss of business development company status; · loss of RIC status; · changes in our earnings or variations in our operating results; · changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; · any shortfall in our revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; · departure of key personnel; · operating performance of companies comparable to us; · short-selling pressure with respect to our shares or business development companies generally; · general economic trends and other external factors; and · loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading prices of our shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our shares and, if we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of shares of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share will decline. Although shares of our common stock have historically traded at a premium to net asset value, there can be no guarantee that they will continue to do so. We could face losses and potential liability if intrusion, viruses or similar disruptions to our technology jeopardize our confidential information or that of users of our technology. Although we have implemented, and will continue to implement, security measures, our technology platform is and will continue to be vulnerable to intrusion, computer viruses or similar disruptive problems caused by transmission from unauthorized users. The misappropriation of proprietary information could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 