ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Actual results in future periods for Great Plains Energy and consolidated KCP&L could differ materially from historical results and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. The companies’ business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results, and are often beyond the companies’ control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the companies’ management currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the companies. The risk factors described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report and in the other documents filed with the SEC, should be carefully considered before making an investment in the Company’s securities. Risk factors of consolidated KCP&L are also risk factors for Great Plains Energy. The Company has Regulatory Risks The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation, as described below. Failure to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals, in a timely manner, adoption of new regulations by federal or state agencies, or changes to current regulations and interpretations of such regulations may materially affect the Company’s business and its results of operations and financial position. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, and provided certain utility customer protection authority to FERC and the states. The Energy Policy Act of 2005, among other things, also requires FERC to perform a study of competition in wholesale and retail electricity markets and authorizes the creation of an Electric Reliability Organization (ERO) to establish 15 and enforce mandatory reliability standards subject to FERC oversight. The final rule for ERO development and processes for insuring reliable grid operations was issued in February 2006. Management has not yet determined the impact of this final rule. FERC is in the process of establishing rules implementing the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and there is the risk that the rules may adversely affect operations, the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. KCP&L is regulated by the MPSC and KCC with respect to retail rates, certain accounting matters, standards of service and, in certain cases, the issuance of securities and certification of facilities and service territories. Failure to obtain adequate and timely rate relief may adversely affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial condition. KCP&L is also subject to regulation by FERC with respect to the issuance of short-term debt, wholesale electricity sales and transmission matters and the NRC as to nuclear operations. Strategic Energy is a participant in the wholesale electricity and transmission markets, and is subject to FERC regulation with respect to wholesale electricity sales and transmission matters. Additionally, Strategic Energy is subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies in states where it has retail customers. Each state has a public utility commission and rules related to retail choice. Each state's rules are distinct and may conflict. These rules do not restrict the amount Strategic Energy can charge for its services, but can have an impact on Strategic Energy's ability to provide retail electricity services in each state. Additionally, each state regulates the rates of the host public utility, and the timing and amount of changes in host public utility rates can materially affect Strategic Energy’s results of operations and financial position. The Company has Financial Market and Ratings Risks The Company relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. KCP&L’s capital requirements are expected to increase substantially over the next several years as it implements the generation and environmental projects in its comprehensive energy plan. The Company’s management believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets at a reasonable cost based upon current credit ratings and market conditions. However, changes in market conditions or credit ratings could adversely affect its ability to access financial markets at a reasonable cost, impact the rate treatment provided KCP&L, or both, and therefore materially affect its results of operations and financial position. Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and certain of their securities are rated by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. These ratings impact the Company’s cost of funds and Great Plains Energy’s ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries. The Company’s Financial Statements Reflect the Application of Critical Accounting Policies The application of the Company’s critical accounting policies reflects complex judgments and estimates. These policies include industry-specific accounting applicable to regulated public utilities, accounting for pensions, long-lived and intangible assets, goodwill and derivative instruments. The adoption of new Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or changes to current accounting policies or interpretations of such policies may materially affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company is Subject to Environmental Laws and the Incurrence of Environmental Liabilities The Company is subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities with regard to air and other environmental matters primarily through KCP&L’s operations. The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity produces and requires disposal of certain hazardous products, which are subject to these laws and regulations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including 16 fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. KCP&L regularly conducts environmental audits designed to ensure compliance with governmental regulations and to detect contamination. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy and consolidated KCP&L results of operations and financial position. New environmental laws and regulations affecting KCP&L’s operations may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to KCP&L or its facilities, which may substantially increase its environmental expenditures in the future. New facilities, or modifications of existing facilities, may require new environmental permits or amendments to existing permits. Delays in the environmental permitting process, denials of permit applications or conditions imposed in permits may materially affect the cost and timing of the generation and environmental retrofit projects included in the comprehensive energy plan, among other projects, and thus materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. In addition, KCP&L may not be able to recover all of its costs for environmental expenditures through rates in the future. Under current law, KCP&L is also generally responsible for any on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of its facilities that it has previously owned or operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time it owned or operated the facilities. The incurrence of material environmental costs or liabilities, without related rate recovery, could have a material adverse effect on KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding environmental matters. Great Plains Energy’s Ability to Pay Dividends and Meet Financial Obligations Depends on its Subsidiaries Great Plains Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. The primary source of funds for payment of dividends to its shareholders and its financial obligations is dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, particularly KCP&L. The ability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions, and, accordingly, Great Plains Energy’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock and meet its financial obligations, will depend on the actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial position of its subsidiaries, as well as on regulatory factors, financial covenants, general business conditions and other matters. KCP&L and Strategic Energy are Affected by Demand, Seasonality and Weather The results of operations of KCP&L and Strategic Energy can be materially affected by changes in weather and customer demand. KCP&L and Strategic Energy estimate customer demand based on historical trends, to procure fuel and purchased power. Differences in customer usage from these estimates due to weather or other factors could materially affect KCP&L’s and Strategic Energy’s results of operations. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. KCP&L is significantly impacted by seasonality with approximately one-third of its retail revenues recorded in the third quarter. Strategic Energy is impacted by seasonality, but to a much lesser extent. In addition, severe weather, including but not limited to tornados, snow, rain and ice storms can be destructive causing outages and property damage that can potentially result in additional expenses and lower revenues. KCP&L’s Iatan and Hawthorn stations use water from the Missouri River for cooling purposes. Low water and flow levels, which have been experienced in recent years, can increase KCP&L’s maintenance costs at these stations and, if these levels get low enough, could cause KCP&L to modify plant operations. KCP&L and Strategic Energy have Commodity Price Risks KCP&L and Strategic Energy engage in the wholesale and retail marketing of electricity and, accordingly, are exposed to risks associated with the price of electricity. Strategic Energy routinely 17 enters into contracts to purchase and sell electricity in the normal course of business. KCP&L generates, purchases and sells electricity in the retail and wholesale markets. Fossil Fuel and Transportation Prices Impact KCP&L’s Costs Less than 1% of KCP&L's rates contain an automatic fuel adjustment clause, exposing KCP&L to risk from changes in the market prices of coal and natural gas used to generate power and in the cost of coal and natural gas transportation. Changes in KCP&L’s fuel mix due to electricity demand, plant availability, transportation issues, fuel prices and other factors can also adversely affect KCP&L’s fuel costs. KCP&L does not hedge its entire exposure from fossil fuel and transportation price volatility. As a consequence, its results of operations and financial position may be materially impacted by changes in these prices, until increased costs are recovered in rates. Wholesale Electricity Prices Affect Costs and Revenues KCP&L's ability to maintain or increase its level of wholesale sales depends on the wholesale market price, transmission availability and the availability of KCP&L’s generation for wholesale sales, among other factors. A substantial portion of KCP&L’s wholesale sales are made in the spot market, and thus KCP&L has immediate exposure to wholesale price changes. Declines in wholesale market price or availability of generation or transmission constraints in the wholesale markets, could reduce KCP&L's wholesale sales and adversely affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. KCP&L is also exposed to risk because at times it purchases power to meet its customers’ needs. The cost of these purchases may be affected by the timing of customer demand and/or unavailability of KCP&L’s lower-priced generating units. Wholesale power prices can be volatile and generally increase in times of high regional demand and high natural gas prices. Strategic Energy operates in competitive retail electricity markets, competing against the host utilities and other retail suppliers. Wholesale electricity costs, which account for a significant portion of its operating expenses, can materially affect Strategic Energy’s ability to attract and retain retail electricity customers at profitable prices. There is also a regulatory lag that slows the adjustment of host public utility rates in response to changes in wholesale prices. This lag can negatively affect Strategic Energy’s ability to compete in a rising wholesale price environment. Strategic Energy manages wholesale electricity risk by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of its positions to balance energy supply and demand; however, Strategic Energy does not hedge its entire exposure to electricity price volatility. As a consequence, its results of operations and financial position may be materially impacted by changes in the wholesale price of electricity. KCP&L has Operations Risks The operation of KCP&L’s electric generation, transmission and distribution systems involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by equipment conditions, environmental or other regulatory requirements; fuel supply or fuel transportation reductions or interruptions; transmission scheduling; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, severe weather or other similar occurrences. These and other operating events may reduce KCP&L’s revenues or increase its costs, or both, and may materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. KCP&L has Construction-Related Risks KCP&L’s comprehensive energy plan includes the construction of an estimated 850 MW coal-fired generating plant, 100.5 MW of wind generation and environmental retrofits at two existing coal-fired units. KCP&L has not recently managed a construction program of this magnitude. There are risks 18 that actual costs may exceed budget estimates, delays may occur in obtaining permits and materials, suppliers and contractors may not perform as required under their contracts, and events beyond KCP&L’s control may occur that may materially affect the schedule, budget and performance of these projects. These risks may increase the costs of these construction projects, require KCP&L to purchase additional electricity to supply its retail customers until the projects are completed, or both, and may materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. KCP&L has Retirement-Related Risks Through 2010, approximately 30% of KCP&L’s current employees will be eligible to retire with full pension benefits. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect KCP&L’s ability to manage and operate its business. Substantially all of KCP&L’s employees participate in defined benefit and postretirement plans. If KCP&L employees retire when they become eligible for retirement through 2010, or if KCP&L’s plans experience adverse market returns on its investments, or if interest rates materially fall, KCP&L’s pension expense and contributions to the plans could rise substantially over historical levels. The timing and number of employees retiring and selecting the lump sum payment option could result in pension settlement charges that could materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations. In addition, assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions, including projected retirements, have a significant impact on KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. Proposed legislation pending in Congress on pension reform could result in increased pension funding requirements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has a project to reconsider the accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits. This project may result in accelerated expense, liability recognition and contributions. KCP&L has Nuclear Exposure KCP&L owns 47% (548 MW) of Wolf Creek. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities, including Wolf Creek. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, shut down the facilities, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Any revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could result in substantial capital expenditures at Wolf Creek. Wolf Creek has the lowest fuel cost per MWh of any of KCP&L's generating units. Although not expected, an extended outage of Wolf Creek, whether resulting from NRC action, an incident at the plant or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse effect on KCP&L's results of operations and financial position in the event KCP&L incurs higher replacement power and other costs that are not recovered through rates. If a long-term outage occurred, the state regulatory commissions could reduce rates by excluding the Wolf Creek investment from rate base. Ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit exposes KCP&L to risks regarding decommissioning costs at the end of the unit's life. KCP&L contributes annually to a tax-qualified trust fund to be used to decommission Wolf Creek. The funding level assumes a projected level of return on trust assets. If the actual return on trust assets is below the anticipated level, KCP&L could be responsible for the balance of funds required. If returns are lower than the expected level, management believes a rate increase would be allowed ensuring full recovery of decommissioning costs over the remaining life of the unit. KCP&L is also exposed to other risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, including but not limited to potential liability associated with the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of a nuclear generating unit and the 19 storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, and to potential retrospective assessments and losses in excess of insurance coverage. Strategic Energy Operates in Competitive Retail Electricity Markets Strategic Energy has several competitors that operate in most or all of the same states in which it serves customers. Some of these competitors also operate in states other than where Strategic Energy has operations. It also faces competition in certain markets from regional suppliers and deregulated utility affiliates formed by holding companies affiliated with regulated utilities to provide retail load in their home market territories. Strategic Energy's competitors vary in size from small companies to large corporations, some of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and procurement resources than Strategic Energy. Additionally, Strategic Energy, as well as its other competitors, must compete with the host utility in order to convince customers to switch from the host utility. Strategic Energy’s results of operations and financial position are impacted by the success Strategic Energy has in attracting and retaining customers in these markets. Strategic Energy has Wholesale Electricity Supplier Credit Risk Strategic Energy has credit risk exposure in the form of the loss that it could incur if a counterparty failed to perform under its contractual obligations. Strategic Energy enters into forward contracts with multiple suppliers. In the event of supplier non-delivery or default, Strategic Energy’s results of operations could be affected to the extent the cost of replacement power exceeded the combination of the contracted price with the supplier and the amount of collateral held by Strategic Energy to mitigate its credit risk with the supplier. Strategic Energy’s results of operations could also be affected, in a given period, if it were required to make a payment upon termination of a supplier contract to the extent the contracted price with the supplier exceeded the market value of the contract at the time of termination. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 ITEM 