ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Actual results in future periods for Great Plains Energy and KCP&L could differ materially from historical results and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. The companies’ business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond the companies’ control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the companies’ management currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the companies. This information, as well as the other information included in this report and in the other documents filed with the SEC, should be carefully considered before making an investment in the securities of Great Plains Energy and KCP&L. Risk factors of KCP&L are also risk factors of Great Plains Energy. Regulatory and Environmental Risks: Complex utility and environmental regulation could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The companies are subject to, or affected by, extensive federal and state utility regulation, including by the MPSC, KCC, FERC, NRC, SPP and NERC. They must also comply with environmental laws, regulations, permits and agreements. The companies must address in their business planning and management of operations the effects of existing and proposed laws and regulations and potential changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, RTOs, utility regulators and taxing authorities. Failure of the companies to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals in a timely manner, new or changed laws, regulations, standards, interpretations or other legal requirements, and increased compliance costs and potential non-compliance consequences may materially affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Certain of these risks are addressed in greater detail below. The outcome of retail rate proceedings could have a material impact on the business and is largely outside the companies’ control. The rates that the companies are allowed to charge their customers are the single most important item influencing their results of operations, financial position and cash flows. These rates are subject to the determination, in large part, of governmental entities outside of the companies’ control, including the MPSC, KCC (for KCP&L) and FERC. The companies are also exposed to cost-recovery shortfalls due to the inherent “regulatory lag” in the rate-setting process, especially during periods of significant cost inflation or declining retail usage, as utility rates in Missouri and Kansas are generally based on historical information and are not subject to adjustment (other than principally for fuel and purchased power for KCP&L in Kansas and for GMO) between rate cases. As a part of the Missouri and Kansas stipulations approved by the MPSC and KCC in 2005, KCP&L began implementation of its Comprehensive Energy Plan. Under the Comprehensive Energy Plan, 11 KCP&L agreed to undertake certain projects, including constructing Iatan No. 2, installing a new wind-powered generating facility, installing environmental upgrades to certain existing plants, infrastructure improvements and demand management, distributed generation, and customer efficiency and affordability programs. In March 2007, KCP&L entered into a Collaboration Agreement with the Sierra Club and Concerned Citizens of Platte County that provides for increases in KCP&L’s wind generation capacity and energy efficiency initiatives, reductions in certain emission permit levels at its Iatan and LaCygne generating stations, and projects to offset certain CO2 emissions. The wind generation, energy efficiency and emission permit reductions are conditioned on regulatory approval. In addition to the Collaboration Agreement and Comprehensive Energy Plan energy efficiency provisions, there are mandatory renewable energy standards in Missouri and Kansas and there is the potential for future federal or state mandatory energy efficiency requirements. The companies have implemented certain energy efficiency programs, and are evaluating expanded energy efficiency programs as one of the elements to meet environmental requirements and future customer energy needs. The companies currently recover energy efficiency program expenses on a deferred basis. While there are ongoing regulatory proceedings in Missouri and Kansas to address recovery of and earnings on the investments of utilities in renewable energy and energy efficiency programs, until the rules are set and programs are approved, the effects on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s plans and future results cannot be reasonably estimated. The MPSC order approving the GMO acquisition provides that the transaction costs will not be recovered through utility rates, and that the Missouri jurisdictional portion of transition costs will be eligible for recovery through utility rates only to the extent the costs are offset by benefits resulting from the acquisition. These costs continue to be deferred until the MPSC authorizes their rate recovery. The KCC order approving the GMO acquisition limited KCP&L’s recovery of transition costs through Kansas rates to $10.0 million over a five year period in new rates anticipated to be effective in the fourth quarter of 2010. Failure to timely recover the full cost of projects under the Comprehensive Energy Plan or Collaboration Agreement, or the impact of renewable energy and energy efficiency programs, or other utility costs and expenses due to regulatory disallowances, regulatory lag or other factors could lead to lowered credit ratings, reduced access to capital markets, increased financing costs, lower flexibility due to constrained financial resources and increased collateral security requirements, which could materially and adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative, public perception and regulatory pressures, the companies may be subject to rate moratoriums, rate refunds, limits on rate increases, lower allowed returns on investment or rate reductions, including phase-in plans designed to spread the impact of rate increases over an extended period of time for the benefit of customers. Any or all of these could have a significant adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Regulatory requirements regarding utility operations may increase costs and may expose Great Plains Energy and KCP&L to compliance penalties. The NRC extensively regulates nuclear power plants, including Wolf Creek. The FERC, NERC and SPP have implemented and enforce an extensive set of transmission system reliability, cyber security and critical infrastructure protection standards that apply to public utilities, including the companies. The MPSC and KCC have the authority to implement utility operational standards and requirements, such as vegetation management standards, facilities inspection requirements and quality of service standards. KCP&L agreed to quality of service standards in Kansas in connection with the GMO acquisition. The costs of new or modified regulations, standards and other requirements could have an adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows as a result of increased operations or maintenance and capital expenditures for new facilities or to repair or improve 12 existing facilities. In addition, failure to meet quality of service, reliability, operational or other standards and requirements could expose Great Plains Energy or KCP&L to penalties, additional compliance costs, or adverse rate consequences. The companies are subject to current and potential environmental requirements and the incurrence of environmental liabilities, any or all of which may adversely affect their business and financial results. The companies are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and permit requirements relating to air and water quality, waste management and disposal, natural resources and health and safety. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations and remediation costs for historical and pre-existing conditions, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. There is also a risk that new environmental laws and regulations, new judicial interpretations of environmental laws and regulations, or the requirements in new or renewed environmental permits could adversely affect the companies’ operations. In addition, there is also a risk of lawsuits brought by third parties alleging violations of environmental commitments or requirements, creation of a public nuisance or other matters, and seeking injunctions or monetary or other damages and certain federal courts have held that state and local governments and private parties have standing to bring climate change tort suits seeking company-specific emission reductions and damages. The companies’ environmental permits are subject to periodic renewal, which may result in more stringent permit conditions and limits. New facilities, or modifications of existing facilities, may require new environmental permits or amendments to existing permits. Delays in the environmental permitting process, public opposition and challenges, denials of permit applications, limits or conditions imposed in permits and the associated uncertainty may materially adversely affect the cost and timing of the projects, and thus materially adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The companies would seek recovery of capital costs and expenses for environmental compliance and remediation through rate increases; however, there can be no assurance that such rate increases would be granted. As discussed above, Great Plains Energy and KCP&L may be subject to materially adverse rate treatment in response to competitive, economic, political, legislative, public perception of the companies’ environmental reputation and regulatory pressures. The costs of compliance or noncompliance with these environmental requirements, or remediation costs, or adverse outcomes of lawsuits, or failure to timely recover environmental costs, could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Certain of these matters are discussed in more detail below. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding certain significant environmental matters. Air and Climate Change The Company believes it is likely that additional federal or relevant regional, state or local laws or regulations could be enacted to address global climate change. At the international level, while the United States is not a current party to the Kyoto Protocol, it has agreed to undertake certain voluntary actions under the non-binding Copenhagen Accord, including the establishment of a goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. International agreements legally binding on the United States may be reached in the future. Such laws or regulations could require the control or reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases, such as CO2, which are created in the combustion of fossil fuels. These requirements could include, among other things, taxes or fees on fossil fuels or emissions, cap and trade programs, and renewable energy standards. The companies’ current generation capacity is primarily coal-fired, and is estimated to produce about one ton of CO2 per MWh, or about 23 million tons and 17 million tons per year for Great Plains Energy and KCP&L, respectively. Laws have recently been passed in Missouri and Kansas, the states in which the companies’ retail electric business is operated, setting renewable energy standards, and management believes that national renewable energy standards are also likely. While management believes additional requirements addressing these matters will probably be enacted, the timing, provisions and impact of such requirements, including the cost to obtain and install new 13 equipment to achieve compliance, cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Such requirements could have the potential for a significant financial and operational impact on Great Plains Energy and KCP&L. Missouri law requires at least 2% of the electricity provided by certain utilities, including KCP&L and GMO, to come from renewable resources by 2011, increasing to 15% by 2021. Kansas law requires certain utilities, including KCP&L, to have renewable energy generation capacity equal to at least 10% of their three-year average Kansas peak retail demand by 2011, increasing to 15% by 2016 and 20% by 2020. The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives, would establish a 20% renewable electricity standard by 2020, starting with an initial 6% requirement by 2012. The American Clean Energy Leadership Act of 2009, passed by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, contains lower renewable portfolio standards. These bills would also establish a greenhouse gas cap and trade program, requiring KCP&L, GMO and other affected entities to comply by surrendering allowances or offsets for each ton of greenhouse gas emitted. In addition to the potential for new environmental laws, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is considering the regulation of greenhouse gases under the existing Clean Air Act. Among other actions, the EPA has proposed rules that focus on facilities emitting over 25,000 tons of greenhouse gases per year. These proposed rules would establish new thresholds for greenhouse gas emissions, defining when Clean Air Act permits under the New Source Review and Title V operating permits programs would be required for new or existing industrial facilities. Most of Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s generating facilities would be affected by these proposed rules. Additional federal and/or state legislation or regulation respecting greenhouse gas emissions may be proposed or enacted in the near future. Further, pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement, KCP&L agreed to pursue a set of initiatives including energy efficiency, additional wind generation, lower emission permit levels at its Iatan and LaCygne stations and other initiatives designed to offset CO2 emissions. Requirements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may cause Great Plains Energy and KCP&L to incur significant costs relating to their ongoing operations (through additional environmental control equipment, retiring and replacing existing generation, or selecting more costly generation alternatives), to procure emission allowance credits, or due to the imposition of taxes, fees or other governmental charges as a result of such emissions. Rules issued by the EPA regarding emissions of mercury, NOX, SO2 and particulates are also in a state of flux. Such rules have been overturned by the courts and remanded to the EPA to be revised consistent with the court orders. The EPA is expected to develop proposed standards in 2010, based on maximum achievable control technology (MACT), for mercury and potentially other hazardous air pollutant emissions. In addition, the EPA has notified KCP&L that MACT determinations and schedules of compliance are required for KCP&L’s Iatan No. 2 and Hawthorn No. 5 generating units. The Missouri and Kansas state environmental agencies have submitted to the EPA their determinations that the Kansas City area is an ozone nonattainment area, and must submit by 2013 implementation plans outlining how the area will meet the standards. Additionally, the EPA has proposed to strengthen the national ambient air quality standard for ozone and in February 2009, the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia remanded the EPA’s fine particulate (PM2.5) standards. Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s current estimates of capital expenditures (exclusive of Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) and property taxes) to comply with the currently effective Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) and with the best available retrofit technology (BART) rule is a range of approximately $0.8 billion - $0.9 billion. However, it is unknown what requirements and standards will be imposed in the future and when the companies may have to comply, the effects of the MACT determinations and schedules of compliance, or what costs may ultimately be required. The Clean Air Act requires companies to obtain permits and, if necessary, install control equipment to reduce emissions when making a major modification or a change in operation of an existing facility if either is expected to cause a significant net increase in regulated emissions. In 2004, the EPA notified Westar Energy, Inc. (Westar) that certain projects completed at the Jeffrey Energy Center violated certain 14 New Source Review permitting requirements. GMO is an 8% owner of the facility, which is operated by Westar, and is generally responsible for its 8% share of the facility’s operating costs and capital expenditures. In February 2009, the Attorney General of the United States filed a complaint against Westar alleging that it violated the Clean Air Act and related federal and state regulations by making major modifications to the Jeffrey Energy Center beginning in 1994 without first obtaining appropriate permits authorizing this construction and without installing and operating best available control technology to control emissions. In January 2010, Westar entered into a settlement agreement, which is pending court approval. If approved, the settlement agreement would require, among other things, the installation of a selective catalytic reduction (SCR) at one of the three Jeffrey Energy Center units by the end of 2014 and the payment of a $3 million civil penalty. Depending on the NOX emission reductions attained by that SCR and attainable through the installation of other controls at the other two units, the settlement agreement requires the installation of a second SCR on one of the other two units by the end of 2016. Westar has estimated that if both SCRs are required, the total capital cost could be up to approximately $500 million. There is no assurance that GMO’s share of these costs would be recovered in rates, and any failure to recover such costs could have a significant effect on Great Plains Energy’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Water The Clean Water Act and associated regulations enacted by the EPA form a comprehensive program to preserve water quality. All of the companies’ generating facilities, and certain of their other facilities, are subject to the Clean Water Act. EPA regulations regarding protection of aquatic life from being killed or injured by cooling water intake structures have been suspended, and it is engaged in further rulemaking on this matter. At this time, management is unable to predict how the EPA will respond or how that response will impact the companies’ operations. KCP&L holds a permit from the MDNR covering water discharge from its Hawthorn Station. The permit authorizes KCP&L, among other things, to withdraw water from the Missouri river for cooling purposes and return the heated water to the Missouri river. KCP&L has applied for a renewal of this permit and the EPA has submitted an interim objection letter regarding the allowable amount of heat that can be contained in the returned water. Until this matter is resolved, KCP&L continues to operate under its current permit. KCP&L cannot predict the outcome of this matter; however, while less significant outcomes are possible, this matter may require KCP&L to reduce its generation at Hawthorn Station, install cooling towers or both, any of which could have a significant adverse impact on KCP&L. The outcome could also affect the terms of water permit renewals at KCP&L’s Iatan Station and at GMO’s Sibley and Lake Road Stations. The possible effects of climate change, including potentially increased temperatures and reduced precipitation, could make it more difficult and costly to comply with the final permit requirements. In September 2009, the EPA announced plans to revise the existing standards for waste water discharges from coal-fired power plants. Until a rule is proposed and finalized, the financial and operational impacts to the companies cannot be determined. Solid Waste Solid and hazardous waste generation, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal is regulated at the federal and state levels under various laws and regulations. The companies principally use coal in generating electricity and dispose of the combustion products in both on-site facilities and facilities owned by third parties. In response to an incident at a Tennessee Valley Authority coal combustion product containment area, federal legislation has been introduced and the EPA has indicated that it will propose regulations regarding the handling and disposal of coal combustion products. If enacted, any new laws and regulations, especially if coal combustion products are classified as hazardous waste, could 15 have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s or KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Remediation Under current law, the companies are also generally responsible for any liabilities associated with the environmental condition of their properties, including properties that they have previously owned or operated, such as manufactured gas plants (MGP), regardless of whether they were responsible for the contamination or whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time they owned or operated the properties. In addition, the EPA has given advance notice of a proposed rulemaking to impose financial assurance requirements for various classes of facilities, including electric generation, transmission and distribution, that produce, transport, treat, store or dispose of certain hazardous substances. Due to all of the above, Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s projected capital and other expenditures for environmental compliance are subject to significant uncertainties, including the timing of implementation of any new or modified environmental requirements, the emissions limits imposed by such requirements and the types and costs of the compliance alternatives selected by Great Plains Energy and KCP&L. As a result, costs to comply with environmental requirements cannot be estimated with certainty, and actual costs could be significantly higher than projections. Other new environmental laws and regulations affecting the operations of the companies may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to the companies or their facilities, any of which may materially adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s business, adversely affect the companies’ ability to continue operating its power plants as currently done and substantially increase their environmental expenditures or liabilities in the future. Financial Risks: Financial market disruptions and declines in credit ratings may increase financing costs and/or limit access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect liquidity and results. Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s capital requirements are expected to be substantial over the next several years. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L rely on access to short-term money markets, revolving credit facilities provided by financial institutions and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L also rely on bank-provided credit facilities for credit support, such as letters of credit, to support operations. The amount of credit support required for operations varies with a number of factors, including the amount and price of wholesale power purchased or sold. Great Plains Energy, KCP&L, GMO and certain of their securities are rated by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. These ratings impact the companies’ cost of funds and Great Plains Energy’s ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries. The interest rates on borrowings under KCP&L’s revolving credit agreement and on a substantial portion of Great Plains Energy’s and GMO’s debt are subject to increase as their respective credit ratings decrease. The Company has agreed to not seek rate recovery of GMO interest costs in excess of equivalent investment-grade debt, and the MPSC approval of the GMO acquisition is conditioned on the requirement that any post-acquisition financial effects of a credit downgrade of Great Plains Energy, KCP&L or GMO occurring as a result of the acquisition would be borne by shareholders and not utility customers. The amount of collateral or other credit support required under power supply agreements is also dependent on credit ratings. The capital and credit markets recently experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption. Though market conditions have stabilized, there is no assurance that conditions will not deteriorate in the future. Adverse market conditions or decreases in Great Plains Energy’s, KCP&L’s or GMO’s credit ratings could have material adverse effects on the companies. These effects could include, among others: reduced access to capital and increased cost of funds; dilution resulting from equity issuances at reduced prices; increases in the amount of collateral or other credit support obligations required to be posted with contractual counterparties; increased nuclear decommissioning trust and pension and other post-retirement benefit plan funding requirements; rate case 16 disallowance of KCP&L’s or GMO’s costs of capital; or reductions in Great Plains Energy’s ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries. Any of these results could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, market disruption and volatility could have an adverse impact on Great Plains Energy’s or KCP&L’s lenders, suppliers and other counterparties or customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. A sustained decline in Great Plains Energy’s stock price below book value may result in goodwill impairments that could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s results of operations and financial position, as well as credit facility covenants. The GMO acquisition resulted in Great Plains Energy recording $169 million in goodwill. Accounting rules require goodwill to be tested for impairment annually and when an event occurs indicating that it is possible that an impairment exists. Great Plains Energy’s stock traded at a price below carrying value throughout 2009. If the stock price continues to be below carrying value, the accounting rules may require Great Plains Energy to conduct additional goodwill impairment tests. There is no assurance that the results of these additional tests will not require Great Plains Energy to recognize an impairment of goodwill. An impairment of goodwill would reduce net income and shareholders’ equity, may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s results of operations and financial position, and could result in a breach of the debt to total capitalization covenants in Great Plains Energy’s and GMO’s revolving credit agreements. Great Plains Energy has guaranteed substantially all of the outstanding debt of GMO and payments under these guarantees may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s liquidity. In connection with the GMO acquisition, Great Plains Energy issued guarantees covering substantially all of the outstanding debt of GMO and has guaranteed a $400 million revolving credit facility that GMO entered into subsequent to the acquisition. The guarantees were a factor in GMO receiving investment-grade ratings and the guarantees obligate Great Plains Energy to pay amounts owed by GMO directly to the holders of the guaranteed debt in the event GMO defaults on its payment obligations. Great Plains Energy may also guarantee debt that GMO may issue in the future. Any guarantee payments could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s liquidity. The inability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to provide sufficient dividends to Great Plains Energy, or the inability otherwise of Great Plains Energy to pay dividends to its shareholders and meet its financial obligations would have an adverse effect. Great Plains Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. The primary source of funds for payment of dividends to its shareholders and its other financial obligations is dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, particularly KCP&L and GMO. The ability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions, and accordingly, Great Plains Energy’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock and meet its financial obligations principally depends on the actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial position of its subsidiaries, as well as on regulatory factors, financial covenants, general business conditions and other matters. In addition, Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and GMO are subject to certain corporate and regulatory restrictions and financial covenants that could affect their ability to pay dividends. Great Plains Energy’s articles of incorporation restrict the payment of common stock dividends in the event common equity is 25% or less of total capitalization. In addition, if preferred stock dividends are not declared and paid when scheduled, Great Plains Energy could not declare or pay common stock dividends or purchase any common shares. If the unpaid preferred stock dividends equal four or more full quarterly dividends, the preferred shareholders, voting as a single class, could elect the smallest number of directors necessary to constitute a majority of the full Great Plains Energy Board of Directors (Board). Certain conditions in the MPSC and KCC orders authorizing the holding company structure require Great Plains Energy and KCP&L to maintain consolidated common equity of at least 30% and 35%, respectively, of total capitalization (including only the amount of short-term debt in excess of the amount of construction work in progress). Under the Federal Power Act, KCP&L and GMO generally can pay dividends only out of retained earnings. The revolving credit agreements of Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and GMO contain a covenant requiring each company to maintain a consolidated indebtedness to consolidated total 17 capitalization ratio of not more than 0.65 to 1.00. In addition, Great Plains Energy is prohibited from paying dividends on its common and preferred stock in the event its Equity Unit contract payments or interest payments on the debt underlying the Equity Units are deferred until such deferrals have been paid. While these corporate and regulatory restrictions and financial covenants are not expected to affect the companies’ ability to pay dividends at the current level in the foreseeable future, there is no assurance that adverse financial results would not trigger such restrictions or covenants and reduce or eliminate the companies’ ability to pay dividends. Market performance, increased retirements and retirement plan regulations could significantly impact retirement plan funding requirements and associated cash needs and expenses. Substantially all of KCP&L’s employees participate in defined benefit and post-retirement plans. GMO’s former employees in its Missouri utility operations and certain other operations also have accrued benefits in defined benefit and post-retirement plans. The costs of these plans depend on a number of factors, including the rates of return on plan assets, the level and nature of the provided benefits, discount rates, the interest rates used to measure required minimum funding levels, changes in benefit design, changes in laws or regulations, and the Company’s required or voluntary contributions to the plans. If the rate of retirements exceeds planned levels, or if these plans experience adverse market returns on investments (as was the case in 2008), or if interest rates materially fall, the Company’s contributions to the plans could rise substantially over historical levels. In addition, changes in accounting requirements and assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions, including projected retirements, could have a significant impact on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of business could result in losses that could negatively impact Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage commodity and financial risks. Losses could be recognized as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, if a counterparty fails to perform, or if the underlying transactions which the derivative instruments are intended to hedge fail to materialize. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. As a service provider to GMO, KCP&L may have exposure to GMO’s financial performance and operations. GMO has no employees of its own. KCP&L employees operate and manage GMO’s properties, and KCP&L charges GMO for the cost of these services. These arrangements may pose risks to KCP&L, including possible claims arising from actions of KCP&L employees in operating GMO’s properties and providing other services to GMO. KCP&L’s claims for reimbursement for services provided to GMO are unsecured and rank equally with other unsecured obligations of GMO. KCP&L’s ability to be reimbursed for the costs incurred for the benefit of GMO depends on the financial ability of GMO to make such payments. Customer and Weather-Related Risks: Severe or unusual weather and changes in customer consumption due to sustained financial market disruptions, downturns or sluggishness in the economy, technological advances, weather conditions, or otherwise may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Great Plains Energy and KCP&L can be materially affected by changes in weather and customer consumption. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L estimate customer consumption based on historical trends to procure fuel and purchased power. Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affect the markets in which Great Plains Energy and KCP&L operate. KCP&L’s retail consumption, on both a nominal and weather-adjusted basis, declined in 2009 compared to 2008. If financial markets or the economy worsen, overall electricity sales volumes may further decline and/or bad debt expense may increase, which could materially affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of 18 operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, technological advances or other energy conservation measures could reduce customer consumption, which could affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L are significantly impacted by seasonality, with approximately one-third of their retail electric revenues recorded in the third quarter. Unusually mild winter or summer weather (as was experienced in 2009) can adversely affect sales. In addition, severe weather, including but not limited to tornados, snow, rain and ice storms can be destructive causing outages and property damage that can potentially result in additional expenses, lower revenues and additional capital restoration costs. Some of the companies’ stations use water from the Missouri River for cooling purposes. Low water and flow levels, which have been experienced in past years, can increase maintenance costs at these stations and, if these levels were to get low enough, could require modifications to plant operations. The possible effects of climate change (such as increased temperatures, increased occurrence of severe weather or reduced precipitation, among other possible results) could potentially increase the volatility of demand and prices for energy commodities, the frequency and impact of severe weather, and decrease water and flow levels, any of which could materially affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Operational Risks: Operations risks may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The operation of the companies’ electric generation, transmission, distribution and information systems involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment, processes and personnel performance; problems that delay or increase the cost of returning facilities to service after outages, operating limitations that may be imposed by equipment conditions, environmental, safety or other regulatory requirements; fuel supply or fuel transportation reductions or interruptions; transmission scheduling constraints; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, terrorism, severe weather or other similar occurrences. An equipment or system outage or constraint can, among other things: · in the case of generation equipment, directly affect operating costs, increase capital requirements and costs, increase purchased power volumes and costs and reduce wholesale sales opportunities; · in the case of transmission equipment, affect operating costs, increase capital requirements and costs, require changes in the source of generation and affect wholesale sales opportunities; · in the case of distribution systems, affect revenues and operating costs, increase capital requirements and costs, and affect the ability to meet regulatory service metrics and customer expectations; and · in the case of information systems, directly affect the control and operations of generation, transmission, distribution and other business operations and processes, increase operating costs, increase capital requirements and costs, and affect the ability to meet regulatory requirements and customer expectations. With the exception of Hawthorn No. 5, which was substantially rebuilt in 2001, all of KCP&L’s coal-fired generating units and its nuclear generating unit were constructed prior to 1986. All of GMO’s coal-fired generating units were constructed prior to 1984. The age of these generating units increases the risk of unplanned outages and higher maintenance expense. Training, preventive maintenance and other programs have been implemented, but there is no assurance that these programs will prevent or minimize future breakdowns or failures of the companies’ generation facilities. The companies currently have general liability and property insurance in place to cover their facilities in amounts that management considers appropriate. These policies, however, do not cover the companies’ transmission or distribution systems, and the cost of repairing damage to these systems may adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s or KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be 19 available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of the companies’ facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage. These and other operating events may reduce Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s revenues, increase their costs, or both, and may materially affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The cost and schedule of construction projects may materially change and expected performance may not be achieved. Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s businesses are capital intensive, and require significant capital investments to maintain existing facilities, for projected environmental projects and to add new facilities, including Iatan No. 2, an estimated 850 MW (of which electric utility’s share is 620 MW) coal-fired generating plant. The risks of any construction project include the possibilities that actual costs may exceed current estimates, delays may occur in obtaining permits and materials, suppliers and contractors may not perform as required under their contracts, there may be inadequate availability or increased cost of qualified craft labor, the scope and timing of projects may change, and other events beyond the companies’ control may occur that may materially affect the schedule, cost and performance of these projects. The demand for additional environmental control equipment has increased substantially with many utilities in the United States starting similar projects to address changing environmental regulations. This demand has constrained labor and material resources for such projects, and there is a risk that such constraints may increase if new laws or regulations, including limitations on greenhouse gas emissions, are imposed. These and other risks could materially increase the estimated costs of construction projects, delay the in-service dates of projects, adversely affect the performance of the projects, and/or require the companies to purchase additional electricity to supply their respective retail customers until the projects are completed. The companies currently are not permitted to start recovering the costs of these projects until they are completed and put into service. Thus, these risks may significantly affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Failure of one or more generation plant co-owners to pay their share of construction or operations and maintenance costs could increase Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s costs and capital requirements. KCP&L owns 47% of Wolf Creek, 50% of LaCygne Station, 70% of Iatan No. 1 and 55% of Iatan No. 2. GMO owns 18% of both Iatan units and 8% of Jeffrey Energy Center. The remaining portions of these facilities are owned by other utilities that are contractually obligated to pay their proportionate share of capital and other costs and, in the case of Iatan No. 2, construction costs. While the ownership agreements provide that a defaulting co-owner’s share of the electricity generated can be sold by the non-defaulting co-owners, there is no assurance that the revenues received will recover the increased costs borne by the non-defaulting co-owners. The Iatan No. 2 co-owners have provided financial assurances related to their respective construction cost obligations, but there is a risk that such assurances may not be sufficient in the event of a co-owner default. During the construction period, the Iatan No. 2 agreements provide for re-allocations of part or all of a defaulting co-owner’s share of the facility to the non-defaulting owners, which would increase the capital requirements, operations and maintenance costs of the non-defaulting owners. Occurrence of these or other events could materially increase Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s costs and capital requirements. An aging workforce and increasing demand for skilled craft labor poses operational and planning challenges. Through 2013, approximately 22% of KCP&L employees (who manage electric utility’s operations) will be eligible to retire with full pension benefits. This is a general industry issue, which has increased the demand for and cost of skilled craft labor for both companies and contractors. The companies use contractors for a portion of 20 their construction and maintenance work. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s businesses. Commodity Price Risks: Changes in commodity prices could have an adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The companies engage in the wholesale and retail marketing of electricity and are exposed to risks associated with the price of electricity. To the extent that exposure to the price of electricity is not successfully hedged, Great Plains Energy and KCP&L could experience losses associated with the changing market price for electricity. Increases in fuel, fuel transportation and purchased power prices could have an adverse impact on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s costs. KCP&L’s Kansas retail rates contain an energy cost adjustment (ECA) mechanism. KCP&L’s Missouri retail rates do not contain a similar provision. GMO’s retail electric rates contain a fuel adjustment clause (FAC) mechanism under which 95% of the difference between actual fuel and purchased power costs and the amount of fuel and purchased power costs provided in base rates is passed along to GMO’s customers. GMO’s steam rates contain a quarterly cost adjustment (QCA) under which 85% of the difference between actual fuel costs and base fuel costs is passed along to GMO’s steam customers. As a result, KCP&L and GMO are exposed to varying degrees of risk from changes in the market prices of fuel for generation of electricity and purchased power. Changes in the companies’ fuel mix due to electricity demand, plant availability, transportation issues, fuel prices, fuel availability and other factors can also adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s fuel and purchased power costs. The companies do not hedge their respective entire exposure from fuel and transportation price volatility. Forward prices for coal have increased, principally due to international demand, and management expects prices will continue to increase. The majority of the companies’ rail transportation contracts expire in 2010 and consequently it is expected that rail transportation costs will increase significantly in 2011. Management also expects the cost of nuclear fuel to increase significantly in 2010. Consequently, Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially impacted by changes in these prices unless and until increased costs are recovered in Missouri retail rates. Wholesale electricity sales affect revenues, creating earnings volatility. The levels of Great Plains Energy and KCP&L wholesale sales depend on the wholesale market price, transmission availability and the availability of generation for wholesale sales, among other factors. A substantial portion of wholesale sales are made in the spot market, and thus the companies have immediate exposure to wholesale price changes. Wholesale power prices can be volatile and generally increase in times of high regional demand and high natural gas prices. While an allocated portion of wholesale sales are reflected in GMO’s FAC and KCP&L’s Kansas ECA, KCP&L’s Missouri rates are set on an estimated amount of wholesale sales. KCP&L will not recover any shortfall in non-firm wholesale electric sales margin from the level included in Missouri rates and any amount above the level reflected in Missouri retail rates will be returned to Missouri retail customers in a future rate case. Declines in wholesale market price, availability of generation, transmission constraints in the wholesale markets, or low wholesale demand could reduce the companies’ wholesale sales. These events could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 21 KCP&L is exposed to risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, which could result in an adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s business and financial results. KCP&L owns 47% of Wolf Creek. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities, including Wolf Creek. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, shut down the facilities, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Any revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could result in substantial capital expenditures at Wolf Creek. Wolf Creek has the lowest fuel cost per MWh of any of KCP&L's generating units. An extended outage of Wolf Creek, whether resulting from NRC action, an incident at the plant or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse effect on KCP&L's results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the event KCP&L incurs higher replacement power and other costs that are not recovered through rates. If a long-term outage occurred, the state regulatory commissions could reduce rates by excluding the Wolf Creek investment from rate base. Ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit exposes KCP&L to risks regarding decommissioning costs at the end of the unit's life. KCP&L contributes annually to a tax-qualified trust fund to be used to decommission Wolf Creek. The funding level assumes a projected level of return on trust assets. If the actual return on trust assets is below the projected level, KCP&L could be responsible for the balance of funds required and may not be allowed to recover the balance through rates. KCP&L is also exposed to other risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, including, but not limited to, potential liability associated with the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of a nuclear generating unit and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. Under the structure for insurance among owners of nuclear generating units, KCP&L is also liable for potential retrospective premium assessments (subject to a cap) per incident at any commercial reactor in the country and losses in excess of insurance coverage. Any such risks could adversely affect Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Litigation Risks: The outcome of legal proceedings cannot be predicted. An adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s financial condition. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L are party to various material litigation and regulatory matters arising out of their business operations. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined, nor, in many cases, can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case presently be reasonably estimated. The liability that Great Plains Energy and KCP&L may ultimately incur with respect to any of these cases in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and insured against with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 ITEM 