ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Actual results in future periods for Great Plains Energy and consolidated KCP&L could differ materially from historical results and the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. The companies’ business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond the companies’ control. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the companies’ management currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the companies. The risk factors described below, as well as the other information included in this Annual Report and in the other documents filed with the SEC, should be carefully considered before making an investment in the Company’s securities. Risk factors of consolidated KCP&L are also risk factors for Great Plains Energy. The Company is subject to complex utility and environmental regulation that could adversely affect its operations. The Company is subject to, or affected by, extensive federal and state utility regulation, as described below. The Company must also comply with environmental legislation and associated regulations. In the Company’s business planning and management of operations, it must address the effects of existing and proposed regulation on its businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by federal and state legislatures, regional transmission organizations, utility regulators and taxing authorities. Failure to obtain adequate rates or regulatory approvals, in a timely manner, adoption of new regulations by federal or state agencies, or changes to current regulations and interpretations of such regulations may materially affect the Company’s business and its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The outcome of KCP&L’s retail rate proceedings could have a material impact on its business and is largely outside its control. The rates that KCP&L is allowed to charge its customers are the single most important item influencing its results of operations, financial position and liquidity. These rates are subject to the determination, in large part, of governmental entities outside of KCP&L’s control, including the MPSC, KCC and FERC. KCP&L also is exposed to cost-recovery shortfalls due to the inherent lag in the rate-setting process, especially during periods of significant cost inflation. A reduction or rejection by the MPSC or KCC of rate increase requests reflecting the costs of projects under the Comprehensive Energy Plan or Collaboration Agreement, which are discussed below, or other costs and expenses, could lead to lowered credit ratings, reduced access to capital markets, increased financing costs, lower flexibility due to constrained financial resources and collateral security requirements. 14 As a part of the Missouri and Kansas stipulations approved by the MPSC and KCC in 2005, KCP&L began implementation of its Comprehensive Energy Plan. Under the Comprehensive Energy Plan, KCP&L agreed to undertake certain projects, including building and owning a portion of Iatan No. 2, installing a new wind-powered generating facility, installing environmental upgrades to certain existing plants, infrastructure improvements and demand management, distributed generation, and customer efficiency and affordability programs. In March 2007, KCP&L entered into a Collaboration Agreement with the Sierra Club and Concerned Citizens of Platte County that provides for increases in KCP&L’s wind generation capacity and energy efficiency initiatives, reductions in certain emission permit levels at its Iatan and LaCygne generating stations, and projects to offset certain carbon dioxide emissions. Most, but not all, of these commitments are conditioned on regulatory approval. A reduction or rejection by the MPSC or KCC of rate increase requests reflecting the costs of projects under the Comprehensive Energy Plan or Collaboration Agreement would adversely affect KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, and the effect could be material. The MPSC order approving an approximate $51 million increase in annual revenues effective January 1, 2007, was appealed in February 2007 to the Circuit Court of Cole County, Missouri, by the Office of Public Counsel, Praxair, Inc., and Trigen-Kansas City Energy Corporation, seeking to set aside or remand the order to the MPSC. The court affirmed the MPSC’s decision in December 2007 and this decision has been appealed by Trigen-Kansas City Energy Corporation. Although subject to the appeal, the MPSC order remains in effect pending the court’s decision. The KCP&L rate increase authorized by the MPSC of $35 million, effective January 1, 2008, may be appealed to the Missouri courts. Parties have until March 3, 2008, to appeal. If there is an appeal, it is possible that the MPSC order could be vacated and the proceedings remanded to the MPSC. Management cannot predict or provide any assurances regarding the outcome of these proceedings. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative and regulatory pressures, KCP&L may be subject to rate moratoriums, rate refunds, limits on rate increases or rate reductions, including phase-in plans designed to spread the impact of rate increases over an extended period of time for the benefit of customers. Any or all of these could have a significant adverse effect on KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Regulatory requirements regarding KCP&L’s utility operations may increase KCP&L’s costs and may expose KCP&L to compliance penalties. The MPSC and KCC have the authority to implement utility operational standards and requirements, such as vegetation management standards, facilities inspection requirements, and quality of service standards. The costs of new or modified operational standards and requirements could have an adverse effect on KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and could expose KCP&L to penalties if it does not meet these standards and requirements. The ability of Strategic Energy to compete in states offering retail choice may be materially affected by state regulations and host public utility rates. Strategic Energy is a participant in the wholesale electricity and transmission markets, and is subject to FERC regulation with respect to wholesale electricity sales and transmission matters. Additionally, Strategic Energy is subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies in states where it has retail customers. Each state has a public utility commission and rules related to retail choice. Each state's rules are distinct and may conflict. These rules do not restrict the amount Strategic Energy can charge for its services, but can have an impact on Strategic Energy's ability to compete in any jurisdiction. Additionally, the timing and amount of changes in host public utility rates can materially affect Strategic Energy’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 15 Financial market disruptions and declines in the credit ratings of Great Plains Energy or KCP&L may increase financing costs or limit access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect liquidity and results. KCP&L’s capital requirements are expected to be substantial over the next several years as it implements its Comprehensive Energy Plan. The amount of credit support required for Strategic Energy operations varies with a number of factors, including the amount and price of power purchased for its customers. The amount of collateral or other credit support required under Strategic Energy and KCP&L power supply agreements is also dependent on credit ratings. If the proposed acquisition of Aquila occurs, the future capital requirements of Aquila will further increase the Company’s overall capital requirements. The Company relies on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. The Company also relies on the financial markets for credit support, such as letters of credit, to support Strategic Energy and KCP&L operations. Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and certain of their securities are rated by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. A decrease in these credit ratings would have an adverse impact on the Company’s access to capital, its cost of funds, the amount of collateral required under power supply agreements and Great Plains Energy’s ability to provide credit support for its subsidiaries. While management anticipates that Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and Aquila will be rated investment grade if the proposed acquisition of Aquila closes, Great Plains Energy and KCP&L credit ratings were negatively affected by the announcement of the proposed acquisition, and may be further negatively affected. The recent sub-prime mortgage issues have adversely affected the overall financial markets, generally resulting in increased credit spreads, reduced access to the capital markets and actual or potential downgrades of municipal bond insurers and the bonds insured by those insurers, among other adverse matters. The interest rates on $257.0 million aggregate principal amount of KCP&L’s EIRR bonds are periodically reset through auction processes. These auction rate bonds are supported by municipal bond insurance policies issued by either XL Capital Assurance, Inc. or Financial Guaranty Insurance Company. Both firms and the supported KCP&L auction rate bonds were downgraded by at least two rating agencies in January and February 2008. Concerns related to municipal bond insurers' credit have adversely affected the ordinary course of operation of auctions for these types of bonds. The interest rates set in recent auctions of KCP&L's auction rate bonds have been adversely affected by these concerns, and the adverse effects are expected to continue until the bonds are changed to another interest rate mode. The Company’s management believes that it will maintain sufficient access to the financial markets at a reasonable cost based upon current credit ratings and market conditions. However, changes in financial or other market conditions or credit ratings could adversely affect the Company’s ability to access financial markets, increase borrowing costs, increase collateral or other credit support requirements, or impact the rate treatment provided to KCP&L, and therefore materially affect its results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Great Plains Energy is subject to business and regulatory uncertainties as a result of the potential acquisition of Aquila, which could adversely affect its business. On February 6, 2007, Great Plains Energy entered into definitive agreements under which it would acquire all the outstanding shares of Aquila. Immediately prior to this acquisition, Black Hills would acquire from Aquila its electric utility in Colorado and its gas utilities in Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska and Iowa. These transactions are complex, remain subject to outstanding regulatory approvals and other conditions, and there is no assurance as to whether or when the transactions will be consummated. While various regulatory approvals have been obtained, the approvals of the MPSC and KCC have not yet been obtained. The timing of, and the conditions imposed by, regulatory approvals may delay or 16 give rise to the ability to terminate the transactions. In the event of termination, Great Plains Energy would be required to write-off its deferred transaction costs, which could be material. The conditions imposed by regulatory approvals could increase the costs, or decrease the benefits, anticipated by Great Plains Energy from the transaction. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company. Although the Company has taken steps to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties could impair the Company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger closes and for a period of time afterwards, and could cause customers, suppliers and others to seek to change existing business relationships. The anticipated costs and benefits of the Aquila transaction may not be realized, which could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Great Plains Energy entered into the Aquila proposed transaction with the expectation that the acquisition would result in various benefits to it and KCP&L including, among other things, synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Although Great Plains Energy expects to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, achieving them cannot be assured. The Company expects to incur significant costs relating to the acquisition of Aquila and its operational integration with KCP&L. These costs may be significantly greater than the Company’s estimates. Although the Company has requested to recover a portion of these costs through utility rates, there is no assurance regarding the recovery of these costs or other regulatory treatment of benefits or costs in rate cases occurring after the closing of the transaction. The Company expects to achieve various benefits, including synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies in connection with the proposed acquisition. Approximately half of the total estimated cost savings and synergies, over the first five years following the transaction are expected to come from reductions in Aquila’s corporate overhead and other costs currently not being recovered through Aquila’s Missouri utility rates, and are not expected to be recovered through utility rates following the merger. If the Company is not able to eliminate these non-Missouri utility costs as anticipated, its results from operations will be negatively impacted. Integration of Aquila and KCP&L utility operations following the transaction will pose significant challenges due to the size and complexity of each organization. The Company has dedicated substantial efforts and resources since the proposed transaction was announced to plan for an efficient and successful integration of utility operations. The Company believes that it will have the necessary employees to successfully operate the integrated utility operations after the transaction closes. However, there is no assurance that the utility operations integration will be completed successfully or in a timely manner. Most of the Aquila employees remaining after the sale to Black Hills are expected to become employees of KCP&L. KCP&L employees will operate and manage both KCP&L properties and Aquila’s properties, and KCP&L will charge Aquila for the cost of these services. These expected arrangements may pose risks to KCP&L, including possible claims arising from actions of KCP&L employees in operating Aquila’s properties and providing other services to Aquila. KCP&L’s claims for reimbursement for services provided to Aquila will be unsecured and rank equally with other unsecured obligations of Aquila. KCP&L’s ability to be reimbursed for the costs incurred for the benefit of Aquila depends on the financial ability of Aquila to make such payments. Additionally, Aquila’s utility operations are subject to regulation by numerous government entities, including the MPSC and FERC. As such, a successful acquisition of Aquila will subject Great Plains Energy to additional regulatory risk. 17 The announced review of alternatives for Strategic Energy may cause business uncertainties, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operation. Strategic Energy contributed 60% of the Company’s consolidated revenues and 24% of the Company’s consolidated net income in 2007. In November 2007, the Company announced that it was undertaking a review of strategic and structural alternatives for Strategic Energy. The alternatives may include, among others, continuation of Strategic Energy’s current subsidiary status and business plans, joint ventures with strategic partners, acquisitions of similar businesses, or sales of part or all of Strategic Energy. Uncertainty about the outcome of this review on Strategic Energy employees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company. Although the Company has taken steps to reduce any adverse effects, including employee retention agreements, these uncertainties could impair the Company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the outcome of the review and for a period of time after, and could cause customers, suppliers and others to seek to terminate or change existing business relationships. The Company is subject to current and potential environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities, any or all of which may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. The Company is subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities with regard to air quality and other environmental matters, primarily through KCP&L’s operations. The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity produces and requires disposal of certain hazardous products, which are subject to these laws and regulations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and consolidated KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. KCP&L currently projects a range of capital expenditures of $1.0 billion to $1.6 billion (KCP&L’s share of jointly owned units) over an approximate ten year period to comply with environmental requirements regarding SO2, NOx, mercury and particulate emissions that will take effect during that period. The actual cost and the timing of such expenditures may be materially different than these estimates due to the risks described in this risk factor and in the risk factor regarding construction risks. There is also a risk of new environmental laws and regulations, and judicial interpretations of environmental laws and regulations, affecting KCP&L’s operations. In particular, various stakeholders, including legislators, regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as utilities and other companies in many business sectors, are considering ways to address climate change. These include regulation of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions and efforts to encourage or mandate the use of renewable resources, energy efficiency and demand response management. Federal and/or state legislation or regulation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may be enacted in the near future. The Kansas Department of Health and Environment has indicated that it intends to engage industries and stakeholders to establish goals for reducing CO2 emissions and strategies to achieve those goals. KCP&L’s current generation capacity is primarily coal-fired, and is estimated to produce about one ton of CO2 per MWh, or approximately 17 million tons per year. Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may cause the Company to incur material costs to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from its operations (through additional environmental control equipment, retiring and replacing existing generation, or selecting more costly generation alternatives), procure emission allowance credits, or incur taxes, fees or other governmental impositions on account of such emissions. Another area of law that is in a state of flux is the rules governing emissions of mercury. Rules issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) were overturned in February 2008, and it is unclear what standards will be imposed in the future, or when we may have to comply with any new 18 standards. KCP&L’s proposed capital expenditures reflect estimated costs to comply with the overturned rule, and compliance with any new standards is likely to result in the incurrence of increased costs, although at this point there is insufficient information to estimate those costs. Other new environmental laws and regulations affecting KCP&L’s operations may be adopted, and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to KCP&L or its facilities, any of which may adversely affect the Company’s business and substantially increase its environmental expenditures in the future. New facilities, or modifications of existing facilities, may require new environmental permits or amendments to existing permits. Delays in the environmental permitting process, denials of permit applications, conditions imposed in permits and the associated uncertainty may materially affect the cost and timing of the environmental retrofit projects included in the Comprehensive Energy Plan, among other projects, and thus materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Under current law, KCP&L is also generally responsible for any on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of its facilities, including those that it has previously owned or operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time it owned or operated the facilities. KCP&L may not be able to recover all of its costs for environmental expenditures through rates in the future. The incurrence of material environmental costs or liabilities, without related rate recovery, could have a material adverse effect on KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding environmental matters. The Federal Clean Air Act requires companies to obtain permits and, if necessary, install control equipment to reduce emissions when making a major modification or a change in operation of an existing facility if either is expected to cause a significant net increase in regulated emissions. The Sierra Club and Concerned Citizens of Platte County have claimed that modifications were made to Iatan No. 1 in violation of Clean Air Act regulations. Although KCP&L has entered into a Collaboration Agreement with those parties that provides, among other things, for the release of such claims, the Collaboration Agreement does not bind any other entity. KCP&L is aware of subpoenas issued by a Federal grand jury to certain third parties seeking documents relating to capital projects at Iatan No. 1. KCP&L has not received a subpoena, and has not been informed of the scope of the grand jury inquiry. The ultimate outcome of these grand jury activities cannot presently be determined, nor can the costs and other liabilities that could potentially result from a negative outcome presently be reasonably estimated. Failure to recover such costs through rates could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and consolidated KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The inability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to provide sufficient dividends to allow Great Plains Energy to pay dividends to its shareholders and meet its financial obligations would have an adverse effect. Great Plains Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own. The primary source of funds for payment of dividends to its shareholders and its financial obligations is dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, particularly KCP&L. KCP&L has committed to its state regulatory commissions to maintain a 35% equity to total capitalization ratio, and has similar covenants in its revolving credit facility. Strategic Energy also has financial covenants in its financing arrangements. The ability of Great Plains Energy’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions, and accordingly Great Plains Energy’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock and meet its financial obligations, principally depends on the actual and projected earnings and cash flow, capital requirements and general financial position of its subsidiaries, as well as on regulatory factors, financial covenants, general business conditions and other matters. 19 Changes in customer demand, due to sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy and weather conditions may adversely affect KCP&L’s and Strategic Energy’s business and financial results. The results of operations of KCP&L and Strategic Energy can be materially affected by changes in weather and customer demand. KCP&L and Strategic Energy estimate customer demand based on historical trends, to procure fuel and purchased power. Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affects the markets in which KCP&L and Strategic Energy operate. Declines in economic conditions may reduce overall electricity sales and/or increase bad debt expense, which could materially affect KCP&L’s and Strategic Energy’s results of operations and cash flows. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. In addition, severe weather, including but not limited to extreme heat or cold, tornados, snow, rain, floods and ice storms can be destructive causing outages and property damage that can potentially result in additional expenses and lower revenues. KCP&L’s Iatan and Hawthorn stations use water from the Missouri River for cooling purposes. Low water and flow levels, which have been experienced in recent years, can increase KCP&L’s maintenance costs at these stations and, if these levels were to get low enough, could cause KCP&L to modify plant operations and/or install additional equipment. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that could negatively impact Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Great Plains Energy, KCP&L and Strategic Energy use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage commodity and financial risks. Financial losses could be recognized as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, if a counterparty fails to perform, or if the underlying transactions which the derivative instruments are intended to hedge fail to materialize. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. Changes in commodity prices could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial condition. KCP&L and Strategic Energy engage in the wholesale and retail marketing of electricity and are exposed to risks associated with the price of electricity. Strategic Energy routinely enters into contracts to purchase and sell electricity in the normal course of business. KCP&L generates, purchases and sells electricity in the retail and wholesale markets. To the extent that exposure to the price of electricity is not hedged, the Company could experience losses associated with the changing market price for electricity. Increases in fuel and transportation prices could have an adverse impact on KCP&L’s costs. New Kansas retail rates effective January 1, 2008, contain an ECA tariff. KCP&L’s Missouri retail rates do not contain a similar provision. Missouri retail rates reflect a set level of non-firm wholesale electric sales margin. KCP&L will not recover any shortfall in non-firm wholesale electric sales margin, but any amount above the level reflected in Missouri retail rates will be returned to retail customers in a future rate case. This exposes KCP&L to risk from changes in the market prices of coal, natural gas, nuclear fuel and purchased power. Changes in KCP&L’s fuel mix due to electricity demand, plant availability, transportation issues, fuel prices, fuel availability and other factors can also adversely affect KCP&L’s fuel and purchased power costs. 20 KCP&L does not hedge its entire exposure from fuel and transportation price volatility. Forward prices for coal have increased, principally due to international demand, and management expects prices will continue to increase. Management also expects its cost of nuclear fuel to increase significantly from 2009 through 2018. Consequently, its results of operations and financial position may be materially impacted by changes in these prices until increased costs are recovered in Missouri retail rates. Wholesale electricity prices affect costs and revenues, creating earnings volatility. KCP&L's level of wholesale sales depends on the wholesale market price, transmission availability and the availability of KCP&L’s generation for wholesale sales, among other factors. A substantial portion of KCP&L’s wholesale sales are made in the spot market, and thus KCP&L has immediate exposure to wholesale price changes. KCP&L is also exposed to price risk because at times it purchases power to meet its customers’ needs. The cost of these purchases may be affected by the timing of customer demand and/or unavailability of KCP&L’s lower-priced generating units. Wholesale power prices can be volatile and generally increase in times of high regional demand and high natural gas prices. While an allocated portion of wholesale purchases and sales are reflected in KCP&L’s Kansas ECA, KCP&L’s Missouri rates are set on an estimated amount of wholesale sales and purchases. KCP&L will not recover any shortfall in non-firm wholesale electric sales margin, but any amount above the level reflected in Missouri retail rates will be returned to retail customers in a future rate case. Declines in wholesale market price or availability of generation or transmission constraints in the wholesale markets could reduce KCP&L's wholesale sales and adversely affect KCP&L’s results of operations and financial position. Strategic Energy operates in competitive retail electricity markets, competing against the host utilities and other retail suppliers. Wholesale electricity costs, which account for a significant portion of its operating expenses, can materially affect Strategic Energy’s ability to attract and retain retail electricity customers. There is also a regulatory lag that slows the adjustment of host public utility rates in response to changes in wholesale prices. This lag can negatively affect Strategic Energy’s ability to compete in a rising wholesale price environment. Strategic Energy manages wholesale electricity risk by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of its positions to balance energy supply and demand; however, Strategic Energy does not exactly match hedges to its aggregate exposure. This imbalance position leaves Strategic Energy subject to the effects of electricity price volatility. Consequently, its results of operations and financial position may be materially impacted by changes in the wholesale price of electricity. Operations risks may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. The operation of KCP&L’s electric generation, transmission and distribution systems involves many risks, including breakdown or failure of equipment or processes; operating limitations that may be imposed by equipment conditions, environmental or other regulatory requirements; fuel supply or fuel transportation reductions or interruptions; transmission scheduling; and catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, severe weather or other similar occurrences. With the exception of Hawthorn No. 5, which was substantially rebuilt in 2001, all of KCP&L’s coal-fired generating units and its nuclear generating unit were constructed prior to 1986. The age of these generating units increases the risk of unplanned outages and higher maintenance expense. KCP&L has implemented training, preventive maintenance and other programs, but there is no assurance that these programs will prevent or minimize future breakdowns or failures of KCP&L’s facilities. KCP&L currently has general liability and property insurance in place to cover its facilities in amounts that management considers appropriate. Such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles and do not include business interruption coverage. Insurance coverage may not be available in the future at current costs or on commercially reasonable terms, and the insurance proceeds received for any loss of, or any damage to, any of KCP&L’s facilities may not be sufficient to restore the loss or damage. 21 These and other operating events may reduce KCP&L’s revenues, increase its costs, or both, and may materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The cost and schedule of KCP&L’s construction projects may materially change. KCP&L’s Comprehensive Energy Plan includes the construction of an estimated 850 MW coal-fired generating plant and environmental retrofits at two existing coal-fired units. There are risks that actual costs may exceed budget estimates, delays may occur in obtaining permits and materials, suppliers and contractors may not perform as required under their contracts, there may be inadequate availability or increased cost of qualified craft labor, the scope and timing of projects may change, and other events beyond KCP&L’s control may occur that may materially affect the schedule, budget and performance of these projects. The construction projects contemplated in the Comprehensive Energy Plan rely upon the supply of a significant percentage of materials from overseas sources. This global procurement subjects the delivery of procured material to issues beyond what would be expected if such material were supplied from sources within the United States. These risks include, but are not limited to, delays in clearing customs, ocean transportation, currency exchange rates and potential civil unrest in sourcing countries, among others. The demand for environmental projects, similar to those in the Comprehensive Energy Plan, has increased substantially with many utilities in the United States starting similar projects to address changing environmental regulations. This demand has constrained labor and material resources for such projects, and there is a risk that such constraints may increase. These and other risks could materially increase the estimated costs of these construction projects, delay the in-service dates of these projects, adversely affect the performance of the projects, and/or require KCP&L to purchase additional electricity to supply its retail customers until the projects are completed. KCP&L is not permitted to start recovering the costs of these projects until they are completed and put into service. Thus, these risks may materially affect KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The anticipated acquisition of Aquila will increase Great Plains Energy’s ownership of Iatan Nos. 1 and 2. Aquila owns 18% of both Iatan generating units. Great Plains Energy’s post-acquisition ownership percentages of the Iatan generating units would be 88% of Iatan No. 1 and 72.71% of Iatan No. 2, which would expose the Company to greater risks associated with the ongoing Iatan construction projects. Failure of one or more generation plant co-owners to pay their share of construction, operations and maintenance costs could increase KCP&L’s costs and capital requirements. KCP&L owns 47% of Wolf Creek, 50% of LaCygne Station, 70% of Iatan No. 1 and 55% of Iatan No. 2. The remaining portions of these facilities are owned by other utilities that are contractually obligated to pay their proportionate share of capital and other costs and, in the case of Iatan No. 2, construction costs. While the ownership agreements provide that a defaulting co-owner’s share of the electricity generated can be sold by the non-defaulting co-owners, there is no assurance that the revenues received will recover the increased costs borne by the non-defaulting co-owners. The Iatan No. 2 co-owners have provided financial assurances related to their respective construction cost obligations, but there is a risk that such assurances may not be sufficient in the event of a co-owner default. During the construction period, the Iatan No. 2 agreements provide for re-allocations of part or all of a defaulting co-owner’s share of the facility to the non-defaulting owners, which would increase the capital requirements, operations and maintenance costs of the non-defaulting owners. Occurrence of these or other events could materially increase KCP&L’s costs and capital requirements. 22 An aging workforce and increasing demand for skilled craft labor poses operational and planning challenges to KCP&L. Through 2011, approximately 22% of KCP&L’s current employees will be eligible to retire with full pension benefits. This is a general industry issue, which has increased the demand for and cost of skilled craft labor for both companies and contractors. KCP&L uses contractors for a substantial portion of its construction and maintenance work. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect KCP&L’s ability to manage and operate its business. Substantially all of KCP&L’s employees participate in defined benefit and post-retirement plans. If KCP&L employees retire when they become eligible for retirement through 2011, or if KCP&L’s plans experience adverse market returns on investments, or if interest rates materially fall, KCP&L’s contributions to the plans could rise substantially over historical levels. In addition, assumptions related to future costs, returns on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions, including projected retirements, have a significant impact on KCP&L’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 alters the manner in which pension plan assets and liabilities are valued for purposes of calculating required pension contributions and changes the timing of required contributions to underfunded plans. The funding rules, which became effective in 2008, could significantly affect the Company’s funding requirements. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has a project to reconsider the accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits. This project may result in accelerated expense. KCP&L is exposed to risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, which could result in an adverse effect on the Company’s and KCP&L’s business and financial results. KCP&L owns 47% (545 MW) of Wolf Creek. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities, including Wolf Creek. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines, shut down the facilities, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Any revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could result in substantial capital expenditures at Wolf Creek. Wolf Creek has the lowest fuel cost per MWh of any of KCP&L's generating units. Although not expected, an extended outage of Wolf Creek, whether resulting from NRC action, an incident at the plant or otherwise, could have a substantial adverse effect on KCP&L's results of operations and financial position in the event KCP&L incurs higher replacement power and other costs that are not recovered through rates. If a long-term outage occurred, the state regulatory commissions could reduce rates by excluding the Wolf Creek investment from rate base. Ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit exposes KCP&L to risks regarding decommissioning costs at the end of the unit's life. KCP&L contributes annually to a tax-qualified trust fund to be used to decommission Wolf Creek. The funding level assumes a projected level of return on trust assets. If the actual return on trust assets is below the anticipated level, KCP&L could be responsible for the balance of funds required; however, should this happen, management believes a rate increase would be allowed ensuring full recovery of decommissioning costs over the remaining life of the unit. 23 KCP&L is also exposed to other risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear generating unit, including, but not limited to, potential liability associated with the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of a nuclear generating unit and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials, and to potential retrospective assessments and losses in excess of insurance coverage. KCP&L’s participation in the SPP could increase costs, reduce revenues, and reduce KCP&L’s control over its transmission assets. Functional control of the KCP&L transmission systems was transferred to the SPP during the third quarter of 2006. KCP&L may be required to incur expenses or expand its transmission systems, which it would seek recovery for through rate increases, according to decisions made by the SPP rather than according to its internal planning process. The sale of power in the SPP Energy Imbalance Service (EIS) Market may result in unanticipated transmission congestion and other settlement charges. There is also uncertainty regarding the impact of ongoing RTO developments at FERC. KCP&L is unable to predict the impact these issues could have on its results of operations and financial position. Strategic Energy operates in competitive retail electricity markets, which could impact financial results. Strategic Energy has several competitors that operate in most or all of the same states in which it serves customers. It also faces competition in certain markets from regional suppliers and deregulated utility affiliates formed by holding companies affiliated with regulated utilities to provide retail load in their home market territories. Strategic Energy's competitors vary in size from small companies to large corporations, some of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and procurement resources than Strategic Energy. Additionally, Strategic Energy must compete with the host utility in order to convince customers to switch from the host utility to Strategic Energy as their electric service provider. Strategic Energy’s results of operations and financial position are impacted by the success Strategic Energy has in attracting and retaining customers in these markets. Strategic Energy supplier and customer credit risk may adversely affect financial results. Strategic Energy has credit risk exposure in the form of the loss that it could incur if a counterparty failed to perform under its contractual obligations. Strategic Energy has two types of counterparty risk – supplier risk and customer risk. Strategic Energy enters into forward contracts with multiple suppliers. In the event of supplier non-delivery or default, Strategic Energy’s results of operations may be affected to the extent the cost of replacement power exceeded the combination of the contracted price with the supplier and the amount of collateral held by Strategic Energy to mitigate its credit risk with the supplier. Strategic Energy’s results of operations may also be affected, in a given period, if it were required to make a payment upon termination of a supplier contract to the extent the contracted price with the supplier exceeded the market value of the contract at the time of termination. Strategic Energy has also experienced an increase in customer bad debt expense, primarily related to its small business customer segment. Strategic Energy has taken steps to address this exposure, but there can be no assurance that bad debt expense will be reduced. Failure of suppliers or customers to perform their obligations may adversely affect results of operations. The outcome of legal proceedings cannot be predicted. An adverse finding could have a material adverse effect on Great Plains Energy’s and KCP&L’s financial condition. Great Plains Energy and KCP&L are party to various material litigation and regulatory matters arising out of their business operations. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined, nor, in many cases, can the liability that could potentially result from a negative outcome in each case presently be reasonably estimated. The liability that Great Plains Energy and KCP&L may ultimately incur with respect to any of these cases in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess 24 of amounts currently reserved and insured against with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position of Great Plains Energy, KCP&L or both. See Notes 2, 6, 13 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding legal proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 