RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a number of significant risks and other factors relating to our structure and investment objectives. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives. You should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. We are dependent upon our key management personnel and the key management personnel of our Adviser for our future success, particularly David Gladstone, George Stelljes III and Terry Lee Brubaker. We are dependent on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our senior management and other management members for the final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly David Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, George Stelljes III, our president and chief investment officer, and Terry Lee Brubaker, our vice-chairman and chief operating officer. The departure of any of our executive officers or key employees from us or from our adviser, Gladstone Management, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and to achieve our investment objectives. We are dependent on our Adviser’s continued operations and may not find a suitable replacement if our Adviser discontinues operations or terminates the investment advisory agreement. We have no employees. We expect that our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief investment officer and chief financial officer, and the employees of our Adviser, will not spend all of their time managing our activities and our investment portfolio. Our executive officers and the employees of our Adviser may allocate some, or a material portion, of their time to businesses and activities that are not related to our business. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our Adviser, which has significant discretion as to the implementation and execution of our business strategies and risk management practices. We are subject to the risk of discontinuation of our Adviser’s operations or termination of the investment advisory agreement and the risk that, upon such event, no suitable replacement will be found. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon our Adviser and that discontinuation of its operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. 14 Our incentive fee may induce our adviser to make certain investments, including speculative investments. The management compensation structure that will be implemented under the Amended Agreement with our Adviser may cause our Adviser to invest in high risk investments or take other risks. In addition to its management fee, our Adviser will be entitled under the Amended Agreement to receive incentive compensation based in part upon our achievement of specified levels of income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on net income may lead our Adviser to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintaining sufficient liquidity, or management of credit risk or market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio. We may be obligated to pay our Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. On December 2, 2005, our stockholders approved an amended and restated investment advisory agreement with our advisor that, when effective, will entitle our Adviser to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation, net operating losses and certain other items) above a threshold return for that quarter. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. This agreement will not become effective until certain requirements related to options outstanding under our 2001 Equity Incentive Plan are satisfied. For additional information on incentive compensation under the Amended Agreement with our Adviser, and the potential time of effectiveness of the agreement, see “Business – Investment Advisory Agreement.” Our Adviser’s failure to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria or perform its responsibilities under the investment advisory agreement may adversely affect our ability for future growth. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to grow, which in turn will depend on our Adviser’s ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will be largely a function of our Adviser’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent and efficient services to us, and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior management team of our Adviser has substantial responsibilities under the investment advisory agreement. In order to grow, our Adviser will need to hire, train supervise and manage new employees successfully. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us and make the types of investments that we seek to make in small and medium sized privately owned businesses. We compete with a large number of private equity funds, leveraged buyout funds and venture capital funds, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds, and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. Furthermore, many of our potential competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our investment objectives or that we will be able to fully invest our available capital. 15 Our business model is dependent upon developing and sustaining strong referral relationships with leveraged buyout funds and venture capital funds. We are dependent upon informal relationships with leveraged buyout funds, venture capital funds, and traditional lending institutions to provide us with deal flow. If we fail to maintain our relationship with such funds or institutions, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other funds, we will not be able to grow our portfolio of loans and fully execute our business plan. Our loans to small and medium sized borrowers are extremely risky and you could lose your entire investment. Loans to small and medium sized borrowers are subject to a number of significant risks including the following: • Small and medium sized businesses may have limited financial resources and may not be able to repay the loans we make to them. Our strategy includes providing financing to borrowers that typically is not readily available to them. While we believe that this provides an attractive opportunity for us to generate profits, this may make it difficult for the borrowers to repay their loans to us upon maturity. A borrower’s ability to repay its loan may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. A deterioration in a borrower’s financial condition and prospects usually will be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained from the borrower’s management. Although we will sometimes seek to be the senior, secured lender to a borrower, in most of our loans we expect to be subordinated to a senior lender, and our interest in any collateral would, accordingly, likely be subordinate to another lender’s security interest. • Small and medium sized businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. Because our target borrowers are smaller businesses, they will tend to be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, our portfolio companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing and other capabilities and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. • There is generally little or no publicly available information about these businesses. Because we seek to make loans to privately owned businesses, there is generally little or no publicly available operating and financial information about our potential borrowers. As a result, we rely on our officers, our Adviser and its employees and consultants to perform due diligence investigations of these borrowers, their operations and their prospects. We may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses through our investigations. • Small and medium sized businesses generally have less predictable operating results. We expect that our borrowers may have significant variations in their operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive position, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our portfolio companies may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by their senior lenders. A borrower’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by senior lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, foreclosure on its senior credit facility, which could additionally trigger cross-defaults in other agreements. If this were to occur, it is possible that the borrower’s ability to repay our loan would be jeopardized. • Small and medium sized businesses are more likely to be dependent on one or two persons. Typically, the success of a small or medium sized business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our borrower and, in turn, on us. 16 • Small and medium sized businesses are likely to have greater exposure to economic downturns than larger businesses. We expect that our borrowers will have fewer resources than larger businesses and an economic downturn is more likely to have a material adverse effect on them. If one of our borrowers is adversely impacted by an economic downturn, its ability to repay our loan would be diminished. • Small and medium sized businesses may have limited operating histories. While we intend to target stable companies with proven track records, we may make loans to new companies that meet our other investment criteria. Borrowers with limited operating histories will be exposed to all of the operating risks that new businesses face and may be particularly susceptible to, among other risks, market downturns, competitive pressures and the departure of key executive officers. We may not realize gains from our equity investments and other yield enhancements. When we make a subordinated loan, we generally expect to receive warrants to purchase stock issued by the borrower or other yield enhancements, such as success fees (conditional interest). Our goal is to ultimately dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. We expect that, over time, the gains we realize on these warrants and other yield enhancements will offset any losses we experience on loan defaults. However, any warrants we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value and any other yield enhancements, such as success fees, may not be realized. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests or other yield enhancements and any gains we do recognize may not be sufficient to offset losses we experience on our loan portfolio. Because the loans we make and equity securities we receive when we make loans are not publicly traded, there will be uncertainty regarding the value of our privately held securities that could adversely affect our determination of our net asset value. We expect that very few, if any, of our portfolio loans or equity securities, at least initially, will be publicly traded or have a readily determinable market value. We value these securities based on a determination of their fair value, based on recommendations provided by S&P and management and approved by our Board of Directors. Due to the uncertainty inherent in valuing these securities, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would exist if a ready market for these securities existed. Our net asset value could be materially affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that we ultimately realize on our disposal of such securities. The lack of liquidity of our privately held investments may adversely affect our business. Most of our investments presently consist of, and will continue to consist of, loans and warrants acquired in private transactions directly from borrowers or from the originators of loans to such borrowers. Substantially all of the investments we presently hold are, and the investments we expect to acquire in the future will be, subject to restrictions on resale, including, in some instances, legal restrictions, or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to quickly obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments if the need arises. This could cause us to miss important business opportunities. In addition, if we are required to quickly liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. Our portfolio will be concentrated in a limited number of companies and industries, which subjects us to an increased risk of significant loss if any one of these companies does not repay us or if the industries experience downturns. We intend to have outstanding loans to approximately 20 to 40 portfolio companies at any given time. A consequence of a limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be substantially adversely affected by the unfavorable performance of a small number of such loans or a substantial writedown of any one investment. Beyond our regulatory and income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for industry concentration and our investments could potentially be concentrated in relatively few industries. In addition, while we do not intend to invest 25% or more of our total assets in a particular industry or group of industries at the time of investment, it is possible that as the values of our portfolio companies change, one industry or a group of industries may comprise in excess of 25% of the value of our total assets. As a result, a downturn in an industry in which we have made multiple loans could have a materially adverse effect on us. 17 Our business plan is dependent upon external financing which may expose us to risks associated with leverage. Our business will require a substantial amount of cash to operate and grow. We may acquire such additional capital from the following sources: • Senior Securities. We intend to issue debt securities, other evidences of indebtedness (including borrowings under our lines of credit) and possibly preferred stock, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act currently permits us, as a business development company, to issue debt securities and preferred stock, to which we refer collectively as senior securities, in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, is at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. As a result of issuing senior securities, we will be exposed to the risks associated with leverage. Although borrowing money for investments increases the potential for gain, it also increases the risk of a loss. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a greater impact on the value of our common stock to the extent that we have borrowed money to make investments. There is a possibility that the costs of borrowing could exceed the income we receive on the investments we make with such borrowed funds. In addition, our ability to pay dividends or incur additional indebtedness would be restricted if asset coverage is not at least twice our indebtedness. If the value of our assets declines, we might be unable to satisfy that test. If this happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our loan portfolio and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when a sale may be disadvantageous. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness will not be available for distributions to our stockholders. • Common Stock. Because we are constrained in our ability to issue debt for the reasons given above, we are dependent on the issuance of equity as a financing source. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or debt securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of the issuance would decrease and they may experience dilution. In addition, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. • Securitization. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we anticipate that in the future we will securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. An inability to successfully securitize our loan portfolio could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and impact our profitability. Moreover, successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses as the loans in which we do not plan to sell interests will be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and our hedging strategy may expose us to additional risks. We anticipate using a combination of equity and long-term and short-term borrowings to finance our lending activities. As a result, a portion of our income will depend upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we loan these funds. Certain of our borrowings may be at fixed rates and others at variable rates. Ultimately, we expect approximately 80% of the loans in our portfolio to be at fixed rates and approximately 20% to be at variable rates determined on the basis of a benchmark prime rate. As of September 30, 2005, our portfolio had approximately 16% of the total of the loan portfolio cost at fixed rates, approximately 43% of the total of the loan cost value at variable rates with a floor, approximately 3% of the total loan cost value at variable rates with a floor and ceiling, and the remaining 38% at variable rates. We will typically seek to hedge against the risk of adverse movement in interest rates on our borrowings relative to our portfolio of assets. As required by our warehouse line of credit, we hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as futures, options and forward contracts. While hedging activities may insulate us against adverse fluctuations in interest rates, they may also limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our credit facilities impose certain limitations on us. We will have a continuing need for capital to finance our loans. In order to maintain RIC status, we will be required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains on an annual basis. Accordingly, such earnings will not be available to fund additional loans. Therefore, we are party to a credit agreement arranged by Deutsche Bank AG as the structuring agent. The agreement provides us with a revolving credit line facility of $100 million, and we may seek to increase the availability of credit under the facility to $150 million. We are also a party to a $15 million short-term revolving line of credit with Branch Banking &Trust Company. In the future, borrowings outstanding on these credit lines may be repaid with the proceeds we may receive from securitizing some or all of the loans in our portfolio for long-term funding. These credit line facilities will permit us to fund additional loans and investments as long as we are within the conditions set out in the credit agreement. 18 As a result of the credit line facilities, we are subject to certain limitations on the type of loan investments we make, including restrictions on geographic concentrations, sector concentrations, loan size, payment frequency and status, and average life. Our failure to satisfy these limitations could result in foreclosure by our lenders which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investments will typically be long term and will require several years to realize liquidation events. Since we generally intend to make five to seven year term loans and to hold our loans and related warrants or other yield enhancements until the loans mature, you should not expect realization events, if any, to occur over the near term. In addition, we expect that any warrants or other yield enhancements that we receive when we make loans may require several years to appreciate in value and we cannot give any assurance that such appreciation will occur. We will be subject to corporate level tax if we are unable to satisfy Internal Revenue Code requirements for RIC qualification. To maintain our qualification as a RIC, we must meet income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use leverage, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and could, under certain circumstances, be restricted from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. Warrants we receive with respect to debt investments will create “original issue discount,” which we must recognize as ordinary income, increasing the amounts we are required to distribute to maintain RIC status. Because such warrants will not produce distributable cash for us at the same time as we are required to make distributions in respect of the related original issue discount, we will need to use cash from other sources to satisfy such distribution requirements. The asset diversification requirements must be met at the end of each calendar quarter. If we fail to meet these tests, we may need to quickly dispose of certain investments to prevent the loss of RIC status. Since most of our investments will be illiquid, such dispositions, if even possible, may not be made at prices advantageous to us and, in fact, may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become fully subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution, and the actual amount distributed. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our shares. For additional information regarding asset coverage ratio and RIC requirements, see “Business—Leverage” and “Business—Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations—Regulated Investment Company Status.” There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors may serve as officers and directors of entities that operate in the same or similar lines of business as we do. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. It is possible that new investment opportunities that meet our investment objectives may come to the attention of one of our executive officers or directors, such as Mr. Gladstone, in his role as an officer or director of another entity, and, if so, such opportunity might not be offered, or otherwise made available, to us. If our primary investments are deemed not to be qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business plan. If we are to maintain our status as a business development company, we must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. If we acquire senior loans, mezzanine debt or equity securities from an issuer which has outstanding marginable securities at the time we make an investment, these acquired assets cannot be treated as qualifying assets. (See “Business—Regulation as a Business Development Company—Qualifying Assets.”) This results from the definition of “eligible portfolio company” under the 1940 Act, which in part looks to whether a company has outstanding marginable securities. Amendments promulgated in 1998 by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to Regulation T under the Exchange Act expanded the definition of marginable security to include any non-equity security. These amendments have raised questions as to whether a private company that has outstanding debt would qualify as an eligible portfolio company. We believe that substantially all 19 of the senior loans, subordinated loans and equity securities that we hold and propose to acquire in the future should constitute qualifying assets because our current borrowers did not, and our expected future borrowers will not, at the time of our investment, have outstanding marginable securities. First, we have historically made, and expect to continue to make, a large portion of our senior loan and subordinated loan investments on terms and in circumstances such that those investments should not under existing legal precedent be “securities” under the Exchange Act and therefore should not be marginable securities under Regulation T. Second, we believe that should a different position be taken such that those investments may be securities, they should still not be marginable securities. In particular, debt instruments that do not trade in a public secondary market or are not rated investment grade are not margin eligible securities under the rules established by the self- regulatory organizations, including the New York Stock Exchange and National Association of Securities Dealers, that govern the terms on which broker-dealers may extend margin credit. Until the questions raised by the amendments to Regulation T have been addressed by legislative, administrative or judicial action, we intend to treat as qualifying assets only those senior loans and subordinated loans that are not investment grade, do not have a public secondary market, and are issued by a private issuer that does not have outstanding a class of margin eligible securities at the time of our investment. Likewise, we will treat equity securities issued by a portfolio company as qualifying assets only if such securities are issued by a private company that has no marginable securities outstanding at the time we purchase such securities. To date, we do not believe that either the SEC or its staff has taken any position with respect to our analysis of the issues discussed above. We intend to adjust our investment focus as needed to comply with and/or take advantage of any future administrative position, judicial decision or legislative action. The SEC has proposed amendments to the rules concerning business development companies that would clarify that, among other things, companies that do not have a class of securities listed on an exchange or Nasdaq would be considered eligible portfolio companies. If these rules are adopted as proposed, it would remove the uncertainty concerning the status of certain of our investments as qualifying assets by clarifying that all of our portfolio companies would be considered eligible portfolio companies. There can be no guarantee that the SEC will adopt these rules substantially as proposed, if at all. Further, separate and similar legislation, entitled the “Increased Capital Access for Growing Businesses Act,” has been introduced in both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. If passed in current form, the legislation would strike the 1940 Act language that ties the definition of eligible portfolio company to whether a company has outstanding marginable securities. In lieu of this language, the legislation would provide that, among other things, companies that do not have a class of securities listed on a national securities exchange would be considered eligible portfolio companies. The legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, H.R. 436, was passed unanimously and referred to the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in April 2005. The U.S. Senate bill, S. 1396, was introduced and referred to the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in July 2005. There can be no guarantee that this legislation will be passed and become effective without substantial amendment, if it becomes effective at all. Unless and until the proposed rules or legislation described above are adopted or passed, if there were a court ruling or regulatory decision that conflicts with our interpretations, we could lose our status as a business development company or be precluded from investing in the manner described in this prospectus. This in turn could cause us to lose our status as a RIC. Any of these results would have a material adverse effect on our ability to invest in the manner described in this prospectus, on our operating results, financial condition and ability to pay dividends, and on the value of our common stock, For information regarding the consequences of failure to qualify as a RIC, see “Business – Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations – Regulated Investment Company Status.” Such a ruling or decision also may require that we dispose of investments that we made based on our interpretation of Regulation T. Such dispositions could have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. We may need to dispose of such investments quickly, which would make it difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. In addition, because these types of investments will generally be illiquid, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. See “Business—Risk Factors – The lack of liquidity of our privately held investments may adversely affect our business.” 20 Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. As discussed above, there is a risk that certain investments that we intend to treat as qualifying assets will be determined to not be eligible for such treatment. Any such determination would have a material adverse effect on our business. For additional information regarding the regulations to which we are subject, see “Business—Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations—Regulation as a Business Development Company” and “Business—Material U.S. Federal Tax Considerations—Regulated Investment Company Status.” We may experience fluctuation in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors including, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. There is a risk that you may not receive dividends or that our dividends may not grow over time. Our current intention is to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and short-term capital gains to our stockholders on a quarterly basis. We expect to retain net realized long-term capital gains to supplement our equity capital and support the growth of our portfolio, although our Board of Directors may determine in certain cases to distribute these gains. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Prepayments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. In addition to risks associated with delays in investing our capital, we are also subject to the risk that investments that we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. We will first use any proceeds from prepayments to repay any borrowings outstanding on our lines of credit. In the event that funds remain after repayment of our outstanding borrowings, then we will generally reinvest these proceeds in government securities, pending their future investment in new debt securities. These government securities will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt securities being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elects to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and adversely impact the price of our shares. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making more difficult a change in control and preventing the removal of incumbent directors. The existence of these provisions may negatively impact the price of our shares and may discourage third-party bids. These provisions may reduce any premiums paid to you for our shares. Furthermore, we are subject to Section 3-602 of the Maryland General Corporation Law which governs business combinations with interested stockholders and could delay or prevent a change in control. In addition, our Board of Directors is elected in staggered terms which makes it more difficult for a hostile bidder to acquire control of us. 21 The market price of our shares may fluctuate significantly. The market price and marketability of our shares may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of shares of RICs, business development companies or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or business development companies; • loss of BDC status; • loss of RIC status; • changes in our earnings or variations in our operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • any shortfall in our revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • departure of key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • short-selling pressure with respect to our shares or business development companies generally; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading prices of our shares may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our shares and, if we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of shares of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share will decline. Although shares of our common stock have historically traded at a premium to net asset value, there can be no guarantee that they will continue to do so. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. As of September 30, 2005, we had 11,303,510 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 10,437,903 were freely tradable without restriction. The remaining 865,607 shares were held by employees of our Adviser, and our officers and directors, most of which were purchased upon exercise of stock options and all of which may currently be resold publicly in compliance with the volume limitations and other restrictions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. On April 10, 2003 we filed a registration statement to register for public resale 1,351,668 shares under our Amended and Restated 2001 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) (including the shares that have already been issued upon option exercises). Subsequent to the filing of this registration statement, all of these shares are now freely tradable without restriction, although certain of the options have not yet been granted and a portion of the options that have been granted are not yet vested and the shares underlying such options will, accordingly, not be eligible for resale until vested. Further, in connection with the stockholders’ approval of the Amended Agreement, the Plan will be terminated. The Amended Agreement may not become effective until all outstanding options under the Plan are terminated or exercised, thus we plan to seek agreement from all holders of these options to exercise or terminate their outstanding options within a limited period of time. In connection with seeking such agreement from our optionholders, we may also accelerate the vesting of all unvested stock options eligible for acceleration under applicable SEC regulations. As of December 8, 2005, there are 1,300,498 outstanding options under the Plan, and no further options will be granted. Since our shares underlying these stock options have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (as amended), upon exercise, the holders of these options will be able to publicly resell their shares without restriction. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, pursuant to such registration statement, such option exercises, under Rule 144 or otherwise, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities should we desire to do so. 22 Available Information: Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments, if any, to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge through our website at www.GladstoneCapital.com. A request for any of these reports may also be submitted to us by sending a written request addressed to Corporate Secretary, Gladstone Capital Corporation, 1521 Westbranch Drive, Suite 200, McLean, VA 22102, or by calling our toll-free investor relations line at 1-866-366-5745. The public may read and copy materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 