Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk Factors Related To Our Business Cyclicality in the pork industry could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of pork and pork products. Historically, the United States pork industry has been highly cyclical due to the natural inverse relationship of hog prices and 20 Table of Contents production levels and the tendency of independent hog producers to increase production in response to higher hog prices. A typical cycle begins with higher hog prices, which leads to incremental production. This, in turn, leads to overproduction, which drives market prices lower. Eventually, lower prices will generally cause production levels to moderate or decline which generally leads to higher market prices. From 1996 through 2005, the USDA 185# pork cutout price, which is a standard measure for determining current market prices of pork primal cuts, ranged from a monthly low of $37.97 per hundred weight to a monthly high of $84.49 per hundred weight, and averaged $64.22 per hundred weight. From 1996 through 2005, the price for hogs ranged from a monthly low of $22.31 per hundred weight to a monthly high of $83.07 per hundred weight, and averaged $60.03 per hundred weight, in each case based on the lean hog prices consistent with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, or CME, pricing method. The cyclical nature of the pork industry is likely to continue and as a result, we may experience periods of overcapacity, declining prices and operating losses at times in the future. Our results for fiscal year ended March 25, 2006 reflected favorable industry conditions, with the USDA 185# pork cutout price averaging $67.41 per hundred weight and hog prices, based on prices published by the CME, averaging $65.07 per hundred weight during that period. We expect that pork prices and lean hog prices will be lower in fiscal year 2007 than the levels experienced in fiscal years 2005 and 2006. Consequently, we believe that our net sales and net income for fiscal year 2007 will be substantially lower than in fiscal years 2005 and 2006. A significant portion of the products we sell are commodities and the most important factor that impacts the selling prices for these products is the relative balance between the supply and demand for pork and other meat products, particularly beef and poultry. Because of the length of the production cycle, there is relatively little ability of hog producers to adjust their production levels in the short-term. Because market conditions beyond our control determine the prices for our commodity products, the price for these products may fall below our cash production costs. We cannot assure you that future fluctuations in the supply and demand for pork products will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview.” Increases in the costs of our feed components could adversely affect our costs and operating margins. Our business can be negatively affected by increased costs of our feed components, which consist primarily of corn and soybean meal. In fiscal year 2006, our purchases of feed components comprised approximately 29.2% of our total cost of goods sold. The cost and supply of feed components are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand, which are driven by matters over which we have no control, including weather, current and projected worldwide grain stocks and prices, grain export prices and supports and governmental agricultural policies. From 1996 through 2005, the price of corn ranged from a low of $1.78 per bushel to a high of $4.81 per bushel, and averaged $2.44, based on the monthly average of daily close prices of the Nearby Corn Futures quoted by the Chicago Board of Trade, or CBOT. During the same period, the price of soybean meal ranged from a low of $128.80 per ton to a high of $315.38 per ton, and averaged $191.10 per ton, as measured by the monthly average of daily close prices of the Nearby Soybean Futures quoted by the CBOT. Increases in the prices of our feed components would likely adversely affect our operating margins. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview” and “— Components of Revenue and Expenses — Cost of Goods Sold.” Changes in consumer preference could adversely affect our business. The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Recent favorable price levels may have reflected, in part, the interest of many consumers in high protein, low carbohydrate diets. It appears that consumer interest in these diets has decreased and that domestic pork demand has moderated. This could adversely affect our pork product and hog prices and, consequently, our results of operations. Our products compete with other protein sources, such as beef and poultry, and other foods. Trends within the food industry change often and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we do not have any other material lines of business or other sources of revenue to rely upon if we are unable to efficiently process 21 Table of Contents and sell pork products or if the market for pork declines. This lack of diversification means that we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or withstand any significant decline in the pork industry. The consolidation of our retail, further processor and foodservice customers may put pressures on our operating margins. In recent years, the trend among our retail, further processor and foodservice customers, such as supermarkets, pork processors, warehouse clubs and foodservice distributors, has been towards consolidation. Consolidation, along with the entry of mass merchants into the grocery industry, have resulted in customers with increasing negotiating strength who tend to exert pressure on us with respect to pricing terms, product quality and new products. As our customer base continues to consolidate, competition for the business of fewer customers is expected to intensify. If we do not negotiate favorable arrangements with our customers and implement appropriate pricing to respond to these trends, or if we lose existing large customers, our profitability could decrease. Our history of operations includes periods of operating and net losses, and we may incur operating and net losses in the future. We experienced operating and net losses of approximately $39.4 million and $38.6 million, respectively, in fiscal year 2003 and a net loss of $4.6 million in fiscal year 2004. The fiscal year 2003 net losses were due primarily to low pork prices resulting from an increased supply of pork and other meat proteins in the North American market, primarily resulting from the Russian ban on U.S. poultry imports. The fiscal year 2004 net loss was due primarily to the continuation of these trends, higher grain costs and an increased hog supply. There can be no assurance as to our ability to generate positive cash flow or net income in future periods. If we are unable to generate positive cash flow in the future, we may not be able to make required payments on our debt obligations. On July 2, 1996, we filed a plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, due primarily to start-up costs and the low level of initial production at our Milan, Missouri processing plant, combined with a decline in hog prices at the same time feed prices increased. The reorganization became effective on September 17, 1996, and our business emerged from Chapter 11. See “Business — Our History.” Our hedging activities may hurt our operating results. We enter into futures, forward and option contracts with respect to such commodities as hogs and grains as part of our price-risk management techniques. These contracts do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. Consequently, these instruments are marked to market and included in net sales (in the case of hog contracts) or cost of goods sold (in the case of grain contracts) on a monthly basis. Therefore, losses on these contracts adversely affect our reported operating results. We utilize hog futures to hedge future pork product sales. These contracts may result in market risk due to fluctuations in hog prices. Our hedging transactions tend to limit our ability to participate in gains from favorable commodity price fluctuations. We purchase a portion of our feed ingredient requirements in advance at fixed prices in order to hedge our short-term exposure to future price fluctuations. We use futures, forward and options contracts to help establish adequate supplies of future grain requirements and to reduce the risk of market fluctuations. These contracts may result in market risk due to fluctuations in the grain markets. In periods of declining commodity prices, our advance purchases and hedging transactions could result in our paying more for feed components than our competitors. Thus, the use of such instruments may limit our ability to participate in cost savings from declining feed prices. For further discussion of the risks associated with commodity prices, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations” and “— Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 22 Table of Contents Our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. We operate in a highly competitive environment and face significant competition in all of our markets. Some of our competitors, such as Smithfield Foods, which is the largest pork producer and processor, possess significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do. Some of our larger competitors may be able to decrease pricing of pork products in the markets in which we operate. The hog processing and production industries are rapidly consolidating, and the consolidation process may lead to more vertically integrated pork producers. We could experience increased price competition for our pork products and lose existing customers if other vertically integrated hog and pork processing companies gain market share. When hog prices are lower than our hog production costs, our non-integrated pork processing competitors may have a cost advantage because those competitors could purchase less expensive hogs from third-party suppliers, while we would have to continue to use hogs produced by our own hog production operations. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to compete effectively in our industry. See “Business — Competition.” The loss of one or more of our largest customers could significantly and adversely affect our cash flow, market share and profits. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 4% of our total revenues for fiscal year 2006. During the same period, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 30% of our total revenues. We expect that these customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We generally do not have long-term contracts with most of our major customers and, as a result, such customers could significantly decrease or cease their business with us with limited or no notice. If we lose major customers, or if there is a decline in the amount of pork products or hogs they purchase from us, our cash flow, market share and profits would be adversely affected. A number of our customers are also competitors and could choose to terminate or alter their purchases from us for competitive or other reasons. In addition, our export sales are predominately focused on Japan, and our sales to Japanese customers represented approximately 7% of our total revenues during fiscal year 2006. A majority of our Japanese exports were sold through a relationship with a Japanese trading partner, to whom we sell exclusively certain chilled pork products produced at our Milan, Missouri plant that are destined for the Japanese market. The contract with this trading partner comes up for renewal in March 2008. If we lose our relationship with this Japanese trading partner, our results of operations could be adversely affected. International markets expose us to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks related to currency values and import/export policies. Export sales have become increasingly important to us in recent years, especially to Japan, and we intend to continue to expand our international sales. Exports accounted for approximately 13% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2006. The markets for our products in countries outside of the United States vary in several material respects from markets in the United States. These variances include differences in pork consumption levels and marketing and distribution practices. Our exports to Japan have benefited from the Japanese ban on the import of U.S. beef. Late in 2005, the Japanese government lifted the ban on the importation of beef from cattle under 21 months old but reinstated the ban shortly thereafter following the discovery of imported beef containing banned spinal materials. Any change in the Japanese ban resulting in substantial U.S. beef exports to Japan could adversely affect the volume and pricing of our export sales to Japan. In fiscal year 2003, the Russian ban on the importation of poultry products from the United States resulted in an increased supply of poultry in the United States markets, causing beef and pork prices to decline substantially in 2003, which hurt our fiscal year 2003 results. Recent concerns over avian influenza have restricted U.S. poultry exports causing a decline in poultry prices and increased freezer stocks. Further international and domestic developments regarding avian influenza could have a negative impact on pork prices. 23 Table of Contents Our international activities also pose other risks not faced by companies that limit themselves to United States markets. These risks include: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • exchange controls; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; • hyperinflation; • tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; • enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • the impact of disease on international consumer preferences regarding meat proteins. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying international expansion opportunities or that we will be able to further penetrate and compete effectively in international markets. Our results depend on our sow herd productivity, mortality and feed efficiency. Changes in herd productivity and feed efficiency can adversely affect our profitability and margins. Sow herd productivity and feed efficiency are important measures by which we evaluate the performance of our production operations. Sow productivity is commonly calculated as the number of offspring per sow per year that reach 45 to 50 pounds and measures the performance of our breeding, gestation, farrowing and nursery operations. Changes in sow productivity can have a material effect on profitability and margins because a substantial portion of the costs of operating a sow unit are either fixed or related to the number of sows. Sows generally have approximately six litters during their reproductive lives, and are most productive on average during the third and fourth litters. Rapid expansion of our sow herd could adversely affect our sow herd productivity because the additional sows will be less productive in their earlier litters. Sow productivity also can be influenced by a number of other factors, including the number and quality of our employees, the health condition of our herds and their mortality rate, genetics and environment. Feed efficiency is commonly measured in terms of feed conversion ratios. A feed conversion ratio is calculated by the number of pounds of feed, which consists primarily of corn and soybean meal, consumed to produce a pound of live weight in hogs in our finishing units. It is a measure of the performance of our hog-finishing operations. Changes in feed efficiency affect per head feed consumption. As a result, they affect the aggregate cost of feed, which is the primary cost component in our hog-production operations. A number of factors influence feed efficiency, including the capacity and use of our finishing facilities, the number and quality of our employees, the health condition of our animals, genetics and the nutrient value of available feed ingredients. Because of the many factors involved, we cannot assure you that existing herd productivity and feed efficiency levels will be maintained in the future. We also cannot assure you that any decline in those levels will not have a material adverse effect on our costs, operating margins or ability to compete with other hog producers. 24 Table of Contents Outbreaks of disease can adversely affect our revenues and operating margins and the recent results have been adversely affected by Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome and Other Conditions. The outbreak of disease and other events could significantly restrict our ability to conduct our operations. The productivity and profitability of any hog operation depends, to a great extent, on the ability to maintain animal health and control disease. Disease can reduce the number of offspring weaned per sow and hamper the growth of hogs to finished size. Diseases can be spread from other infected hogs, in feed, in trucks, by rodents or birds, by people visiting the farms or through the air. We experience outbreaks of certain diseases, including Transmittable Gastroenteritis (“TGE”), Circo Virus, a virus common in swine herds, and Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (“PRRS”), a respiratory disease commonly affecting swine herds, in our facilities, and may experience additional severe outbreaks in the future. Any such outbreaks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our recent operating results have been adversely affected by PRRS and other conditions. See “Business — Processing and Production Operations — Biosecurity.” We also face the risk of outbreaks of other diseases that have not affected our herds previously, including foot-and-mouth disease, which is a highly contagious viral disease affecting swine, cattle, sheep and goat herds. Until the outbreaks of the disease previously reported in Europe, which led to the destruction of thousands of animals, foot-and-mouth disease had been primarily limited to Africa, the Middle East, Asia and South America. Although foot-and-mouth disease is generally not lethal in adult pigs, mortality is common when younger pigs are infected. If we experience an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, we will likely be required to destroy all of our herd that has the potential of being infected. If this occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, an outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our pork products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers even if our herds were not infected with such disease. This could result in the cancellation of orders by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any outbreak of livestock disease in the United States may result in a loss of consumer confidence in the protein products affected by the particular disease, adverse publicity and the imposition of export restrictions. For example, in December 2003, a single case of BSE, a disease affecting cattle but not hogs, was discovered in the State of Washington. As a result, beef imports from the United States were banned by many foreign countries, including Japan, the largest importer of U.S. beef. This incidence of BSE continues to have a material negative effect on the beef industry. Outbreaks of livestock disease in foreign countries may also affect the market for protein products in the United States. For example, in May 2003, a BSE outbreak in Canada resulted in a U.S. import restriction on live cattle from Canada. The resulting drop in the live cattle supply in the United States led to increased prices for live cattle and has placed continuing pressure on margins in the beef industry. Similar events could occur in the pork industry. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations. Non-compliance with these laws and regulations, or the enactment of more stringent laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions and wastewater discharges and, in some jurisdictions, odor. Among other things, these laws and regulations impose standards and limitations on our waste treatment lagoons, water treatment facilities and new construction projects and regulate the management of animal waste from our hog production facilities. We cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times operate in compliance with environmental requirements, and if we fail to comply with such requirements, we could incur material penalties, fines and damages, and negative publicity. Environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations by governmental agencies or courts. In particular, environmental laws and regulations may become more stringent for our industry. Additionally, 25 Table of Contents various citizen and advocacy groups have been advocating changes in animal handling and environmental practices in the industry. We anticipate increased regulation by various governmental agencies and continued advocacy and enforcement by citizen groups concerning food safety, the use of medication in feed formulations, the disposal of animal by-products, air and wastewater discharges and the compliance status of our contract growers. More stringent requirements could result in changes in industry practices that could increase our costs and reduce margins. We are operating under environmental consent decrees that require us to spend approximately $33 million on environmental controls by 2010. In order to settle enforcement actions and citizen suits, we entered into consent decrees with the State of Missouri, and with the federal government, and a citizens group, and a voluntary agreement with the State of North Carolina. The decrees required us to pay penalties to settle past alleged regulatory violations, and require us to research, develop, and implement new technologies for environmental controls at our Missouri operations. As a result of these decrees, we will be required to invest approximately $33 million in environmental controls by the 2010 deadline, of which we have spent $12.3 million as of March 25, 2006. We spent approximately $3.9 million in fiscal year 2006, and expect to spend roughly $4.0 million in each of fiscal years 2007 and 2008. If we fail to make the required investments, we may incur material penalties, fines and damages, and negative publicity. We may also be required to make additional investments at our North Carolina operations under the voluntary agreement. We are subject to North Carolina’s moratorium on expansion of hog operations. North Carolina enacted a moratorium on the construction of farms with more than 250 hogs or the expansion of existing large farms in North Carolina. In 2003, the moratorium was extended until 2007. North Carolina is concerned about the use of waste treatment lagoons and spray fields for the disposal of swine waste, especially in areas of that state which are prone to flooding or hurricanes. It is anticipated that this moratorium will be extended until more effective technologies are developed to protect the environment. The moratorium limits us from expanding our North Carolina production operations. It is possible that lagoons and spray fields could be banned in North Carolina in the future, leading to increased competition for growers and disruption to our North Carolina operations. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of environmental claims, including nuisance claims by neighboring property owners. We are a defendant in several nuisance lawsuits. If these lawsuits are adversely determined, they could harm our business. Because of the nature of our operations, we are subject to the risk of environmental claims, including nuisance claims by neighboring property owners. We face the risk of nuisance lawsuits even if we are operating in compliance with applicable regulations. We are currently a defendant in several suits, including one class action suit, based on the law of nuisance relating to our hog production facilities in Missouri. We believe we have defenses to these actions and intend to vigorously defend them, although we cannot assure you that our defenses in these matters will be successful, or that additional nuisance claims will not arise in the future. See “Business — Legal Proceedings.” The occurrence of unanticipated natural disasters could adversely affect our business. The occurrence of unanticipated natural disasters could adversely affect our business in many ways, including the following: • our production and processing operations materially depend on the availability of large supplies of fresh water, and our animals’ health and our ability to operate our processing facilities at full capacity could be adversely affected if we experience a shortage of fresh water due to floods, droughts, depletion of underground aquifers or other causes beyond our control; 26 Table of Contents • one of our principal costs in the production side of our business is feed costs, and our feed costs may increase if crop supplies are reduced as a result of droughts, floods, hail storms, crop diseases or other causes beyond our control; • our production and processing facilities and our hog herds could be materially damaged by floods, hurricanes and tornadoes; and • natural disasters, such as flooding, can cause the discharge of effluents or other waste into the environment, potentially resulting in our being subject to further liability claims and governmental regulation. Product liability claims or product recalls could result in significant claims, adversely affect our business reputation and expose us to increased scrutiny by federal and state regulators. The packaging, marketing and distribution of food products entails an inherent risk of product liability and product recall and the resultant adverse publicity. Pork products may be subject to contamination by disease producing organisms or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes or Salmonella species. These pathogens are generally found in the environment and as a result, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our processed pork products. These risks may not be eliminated by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. We may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. We could be required to recall certain of our products in the event of contamination, adverse test results or damage to the products. In addition to the risks of product liability or product recall due to deficiencies caused by our processing and production operations, we may encounter the same risks if any third party tampers with our products. We may be required to perform product recalls, and product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future. We have little, if any, control over proper handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. As a result, these pathogens can also be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling or temperature controls at the further processor, foodservice or consumer level. Even if a product is not contaminated when it leaves our facility, illness and death may result if the pathogens are not eliminated or are introduced at such further processor, foodservice or consumer level. Any claims that may be made may create adverse publicity that would have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully. Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products is a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our product liability insurance coverage may not adequately protect us from all of the liabilities and expenses that we incur in connection with such events. If we were to suffer a loss that is not adequately covered by insurance, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Governmental authorities may take action prohibiting meat packers from owning livestock, which could adversely affect our business and threaten the efficiency of our vertically integrated operations. In February 2002, the U.S. Senate initially passed a Farm Bill that included a provision known as the “Johnson Amendment,” which would have prohibited meat packers, like us, from owning or controlling livestock intended for slaughter for more than fourteen days prior to slaughter. The U.S. House of Representatives passed a different version of the Farm Bill that did not contain any provision similar to the Johnson Amendment. Legislation of this type was recently reintroduced into the U.S. Senate. This and similar legislation affecting our operations might be adopted at the federal or state levels in the future. Such legislation, if adopted and applicable to our current operations, would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Business — Regulation.” 27 Table of Contents Changes in “corporate farming laws” and other laws and regulations in some of the states where we operate, or a finding that we are not in compliance with existing laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Several states have enacted “corporate farming laws” that restrict the ability of corporations to engage in farming activities. Missouri is among these states, but Texas and North Carolina currently are not. Missouri’s corporate farming law in many cases bars corporations from owning agricultural land and engaging in farming activities. At the time of ContiGroup Companies, Inc.’s (“ContiGroup”) acquisition of its interest in us in 1998, ContiGroup submitted the proposed ownership structure to the Office of the Attorney General of the State of Missouri for its review. At that time, the Office of the Attorney General indicated that it had no objection to our current structure under the corporate farming laws. There can be no assurance, however, that this position will be maintained in the future as our operations continue and develop. While we believe our operations currently comply with the Missouri corporate farming law and its existing exemptions, the Missouri laws could be subject to challenge or amendment by Missouri governmental bodies in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Further, even with the exemptions, the corporate farming laws of many states, including Missouri, restrict our ability to expand beyond the counties in which we currently operate. In addition to Missouri’s “corporate farming law,” Missouri law also prohibits a person who is not a citizen or resident of the United States from holding a controlling interest in a business that owns land used for farming. To our knowledge, a controlling interest in us is not currently held by a foreign person or entity in violation of this law. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes provisions intended to prevent foreign ownership in violation of this law. These provisions, however, may not effectively prevent a foreign person or entity from acquiring a controlling interest in us. See “Description of Capital Stock — Foreign Ownership Restriction.” If a foreign person or entity acquires a controlling interest in us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and the rights of such foreign person with respect to its investment in our common stock. The price or availability of water, energy and freight costs could increase our expenses, reduce our profitability and hamper our operations. We require a substantial amount, and as we continue to expand our business we will require additional amounts, of water, electricity and natural gas to produce and process our products. The prices of water, electricity and natural gas fluctuate significantly over time, due to supply and other factors, and impact our cost structure. We may not be able to pass on increased costs of production to our customers. As a result, increases in the cost of water, electricity or natural gas would substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the unavailability of these resources could hamper our operations. Our transportation costs are a material portion of the cost of our products. We primarily ship our products and receive our inputs via truck and rail. Exports to Japan and certain other countries involve ocean freight as well. The costs associated with the transportation of our products and inputs fluctuate with the price of fuel and the capacity of our transportation sources. Increases in costs of transportation would negatively affect our profitability. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. As of March 25, 2006, our outstanding indebtedness was $128.4 million. We expect that our indebtedness, including borrowings under our credit agreement, may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. Our consolidated indebtedness level could materially affect our business because: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes, which amount would increase if prevailing interest rates rise; 28 Table of Contents • it may materially limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future; • it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; and • it restricts our ability to pay dividends. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to meet specified financial ratios and limits our ability to enter into various transactions. If we default on any of our indebtedness, or if we are unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our indebtedness would be due and payable immediately and our business could be adversely affected. Our performance depends on favorable labor relations with our employees and our ability to retain them. Any deterioration of those relations, increase in labor costs or inability to attract and retain employees could adversely affect our business. Our employees are not represented by any labor union. However, there have been efforts to unionize our work force in the past and there could be attempts to do so in the future. In addition, we have experienced high turnover in our Missouri production and processing employees in the past, and our location in rural Missouri limits our ability to find replacement workers for those operations. Our Missouri operations are currently located in five sparsely populated counties in which we employed approximately 2,200 people at March 25, 2006. As a result, we have a limited pool of potential replacement workers for those operations. Any significant deterioration of employee relations, increase in labor costs, slowdowns or work stoppages, or shortages of labor at any of our locations, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Business — Employees.” The loss of key members of our management may adversely affect our business. We believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more key personnel, such as our executive officers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with future acquisitions. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition and integration of complementary businesses in order to broaden product offerings, capture market share and improve profitability. We will not be able to acquire other businesses if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities, obtain financing on acceptable terms or reach mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. The negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as the integration of an acquired business, could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions by us could result in: • dilutive issuances of equity securities; • reductions in our operating results; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; • future impairment of goodwill and other intangibles; and • other acquisition-related expenses. Some or all of these items could have a material adverse effect on our business. The businesses we acquire in the future may not achieve sales and profitability that justify our investment. In addition, to the extent that consolidation becomes more prevalent in our industry, the prices for suitable acquisition candidates may increase to unacceptable levels and limit our growth. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 