Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our financial condition and business operations. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Relating to Our Business and Industries The availability and demand for the agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products that we use and sell in our business can be affected by weather, disease and other factors beyond our control. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodities industry and consequently in our operating results by causing crop failures or significantly reduced harvests, which can affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business, reduce the demand for our fertilizer products and negatively affect the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers. Reduced supply of agricultural commodities due to weather-related factors could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, the supply of agricultural commodities can be affected by other factors such as plant disease, including Asian soybean rust, which has recently affected soybean crops in Brazil and the United States. Our operating results can also be influenced by sudden shifts in demand for our primary products due to factors such as livestock and other animal disease, including avian influenza. 15 We are vulnerable to cyclicality in the oilseed processing industry and increases in raw material prices. In the oilseed processing industry, the lead time required to build an oilseed processing plant can make it difficult to time capacity additions with market demand for oilseed products such as soybean meal and oil. When additional processing capacity becomes operational, a temporary imbalance between the supply and demand for oilseed processing capacity might exist, which until it is corrected, negatively impacts oilseed processing margins. Oilseed processing margins will continue to fluctuate following industry cycles, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our food products and fertilizer divisions may also be adversely affected by increases in the price of agricultural commodities and fertilizer raw materials that are caused by market fluctuations outside of our control. As a result of competitive conditions in our food products businesses, we may not be able to recoup increases in the cost of raw materials through increases in sales prices for our products, which would adversely affect our profitability. In addition, increases in fertilizer prices due to higher raw material costs could adversely affect demand for our products. We are subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally and in emerging markets. We are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the United States from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue. Our operations in South America and Europe are a fundamental part of our business. In addition, a key part of our strategy involves expanding our business in several emerging markets, including Eastern Europe and Asia. Volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operating results and our ability to achieve our business strategies. We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our net sales and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Brazilian real, the Argentine peso and the European euro, affect our expenses that are denominated in local currencies, affect farm economics in non-U.S. markets and may have a negative impact on the value of our assets located outside of the United States. We are also exposed to other risks of international operations, including: · increased governmental ownership, including through expropriation, and regulation of the economy in the markets where we operate; · inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; · trade barriers on imports or exports, such as higher tariffs and taxes on imports of agricultural commodities and commodity products; · changes in the tax laws or inconsistent tax regulations in the countries where we operate; · exchange controls or other currency restrictions; and · civil unrest or significant political instability. The occurrence of any of these events in the markets where we operate or in other markets where we plan to expand or develop our business could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. 16 Government policies and regulations affecting the agricultural sector and related industries could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Agricultural production and trade flows are significantly affected by government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops versus other uses of agricultural resources, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded and the volume and types of imports and exports. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Future government policies may adversely affect the supply, demand for and prices of our products, restrict our ability to do business in our existing and target markets and could cause our financial results to suffer. We are dependent on access to external sources of financing to acquire and maintain the inventory, facilities and equipment necessary to run our business. We require significant amounts of capital to operate our business and fund capital expenditures. We require significant working capital to purchase, process and market our agricultural commodities inventories. An interruption of our access to short-term credit or a significant increase in our cost of credit could materially increase our interest expense and impair our ability to compete effectively in our business. We operate an extensive network of storage facilities, processing plants, refineries, mills, mines, ports, transportation assets and other facilities as part of our business. We are required to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, upgrade and expand these facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances and changing safety standards in our industry. Significant unbudgeted increases in our capital expenditures could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to continue devoting substantial resources to maintaining and enhancing our infrastructure, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our future funding requirements will depend, in large part, on our working capital requirements and the nature of our capital expenditures. In addition, the expansion of our business and pursuit of business opportunities may require us to have access to significant amounts of capital. As of December 31, 2005, we had $3,146 million in total indebtedness. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged than we are and require us to dedicate more cash on a relative basis to servicing our debt and less to developing our business. This may limit our ability to run our business and use our resources in the manner in which we would like. Our risk management strategy may not be effective. Our business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodities prices, freight rates, energy prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We engage in hedging transactions to manage these risks. However, our hedging strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. In addition, our control procedures and risk management policies may not successfully prevent our traders from entering into unauthorized transactions that have the potential to impair our financial position. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 17 The expansion of our business through acquisitions and strategic alliances poses risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these transactions. We have been an active acquirer of other companies, and we have strategic alliances and joint ventures with several partners. Part of our strategy involves acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures designed to expand and enhance our business. Our ability to benefit from acquisitions and alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisition or alliance prospects, access capital markets at an acceptable cost of capital, negotiate favorable transaction terms and successfully integrate any businesses we acquire. Integrating businesses we acquire into our operational framework may involve unanticipated delays, costs and other operational problems. If we encounter unexpected problems with one of our acquisitions or alliances, our senior management may be required to divert attention away from other aspects of our businesses to address these problems. Acquisitions also pose the risk that we may be exposed to successor liability relating to actions by an acquired company and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations and reduce the benefits of the acquisition. We could lose customers and incur liability if we fail to properly label or separate products that contain genetically modified organisms from those that do not. The use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in food and animal feed has been met with varying acceptance in the different markets in which we operate. In some of the markets where we sell our products, most significantly the European Union and Brazil, government regulations limit sales or require labeling of GMO products. We may inadvertently deliver products that contain GMOs to customers that request GMO-free products. As a result, we could lose customers, incur liability and damage our reputation. We face intense competition in each of our divisions, particularly in our agribusiness and food products divisions. We face significant competition in each of our divisions, particularly in our agribusiness and food products divisions. We have numerous competitors, some of which may be larger and have greater financial resources than we have. In addition, we face significant competitive challenges outlined below. Agribusiness. The markets for our products are highly price competitive and are sensitive to product substitution. We compete against large multinational, regional and national suppliers, processors and distributors and farm cooperatives. Our principal competitors are ADM, Cargill and, to a lesser extent, large agricultural cooperatives and trading companies, such as Louis Dreyfus Group. Competition with these and other suppliers, processors and distributors is based on price, service offerings and geographic location. Food Products. Several of the markets in which our food products division operates, particularly those in which we sell retail consumer products, are mature and highly competitive. In addition, consolidation in the supermarket industry has resulted in our retail customers demanding lower prices and reducing the number of suppliers with which they do business. To compete effectively in our food products division, we must establish and maintain favorable brand recognition, efficiently manage distribution, gain sufficient market share, develop products sought by consumers and other customers, implement appropriate pricing, provide marketing support and obtain access to retail outlets and sufficient shelf space for our retail products. In addition, sales of our soybean oil products could be subject to increased 18 competition as a result of adverse publicity and labeling requirements in the U.S. associated with trans-fatty acids. If our competitors are able to offer or develop low trans-fatty acid products more economically or quickly than we can, our competitive position could suffer and our edible oil products segment revenues and profits could be negatively affected. Competition could cause us to lose market share, exit certain lines of business, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions and may be exposed to liability as a result of our handling of hazardous materials and commodities storage operations. Our business involves the handling and use of hazardous materials. The use of such materials in processing our products can cause the emission of certain regulated substances. In addition, the storage and processing of our products may create hazardous conditions. For example, we use hexane in our oilseed processing operations, and hexane can cause explosions that could harm our employees or damage our facilities. Our agricultural commodities storage operations also create dust that has caused explosions in our grain elevators. In addition, our mining operations and manufacturing of fertilizers require compliance with environmental regulations. Our operations are regulated by environmental laws and regulations in the countries where we operate, including those governing the labeling, use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. These laws and regulations require us to implement procedures for the handling of hazardous materials and for operating in potentially hazardous conditions, and they impose liability on us for the cleanup of any environmental contamination. In addition, Brazilian law allocates liability for noncompliance with environmental laws by an acquired company to the acquiror for an indefinite period of time. Because we use and handle hazardous substances in our business, changes in environmental requirements or an unanticipated significant adverse environmental event could have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation” and “Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters.” We advance significant capital and provide other financing arrangements to farmers in Brazil and, as a result, our business and financial results may be adversely affected if these farmers are unable to repay the capital we have advanced to them. In Brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we provide financing services to farmers from whom we purchase soybeans and other agricultural commodities through prepaid commodity purchase contracts and advances to farmers, which are typically secured by the farmer’s crop and a mortgage on the farmer’s land and other assets. Over the past two years, due to the higher costs of fertilizer, seed, crop chemicals and other farm inputs, as well as the growth of planted acreage in Brazil, we have advanced funds to farmers in greater amounts under these arrangements than we have in the past. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had approximately $924 million and $932 million in outstanding prepaid commodity purchase contracts and advances to the farmers, respectively. As our exposure under these financial arrangements increases, we will be increasingly exposed to the risks that the underlying crop will be unable to satisfy a farmer’s obligation under the financing arrangements as a result of weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. In addition, any collateral held by us as part of these financing transactions may not be sufficient to fully protect us from loss. In addition, we sell fertilizer on credit to farmers in Brazil. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, our total fertilizer segment accounts receivable were $663 million and $548 million, respectively. During 2005, approximately 85% of our fertilizer sales were made on credit. Furthermore, in connection with our fertilizer sales, we issue guarantees to a financial institution in Brazil related to amounts owed the institution by certain of our farmer customers. For additional information on our guarantees see Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the event that the customers default 19 on their payments to us or the financial institution under these financing arrangements, we would be required to recognize the associated bad debt expense or perform under the guarantees, as the case may be. Although our prior loss experience has been small, significant defaults by farmers under these financial arrangements could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us and our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies or corporations incorporated in other jurisdictions. Most of our directors and some of our officers are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the U.S. judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. We have been advised by our Bermuda counsel, Conyers Dill & Pearman, that uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws and have adopted a shareholder rights plan that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: · a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; · directors to be removed without cause only upon the affirmative vote of at least 66% of all votes attaching to all shares then in issue entitling the holder to attend and vote on the resolution; · restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; · our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and · an affirmative vote of at least 66% of all votes attaching to all shares then in issue entitling the holder to attend and vote on the resolution for some business combination transactions, which have not been approved by our board of directors. In addition, we have a shareholder rights plan which will entitle shareholders to purchase our Series A Preference Shares if a third-party acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common shares. In some circumstances, shareholders are also entitled to purchase the common stock of a company issuing 20 shares in exchange for our common shares in a merger, amalgamation or tender offer or a company acquiring most of our assets. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Adverse U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. investors owning shares of a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, directly or indirectly. We will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if 50% or more of our assets, including goodwill (based on an annual quarterly average), are passive assets, or 75% or more of our annual gross income is derived from passive assets. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the then market value of our common shares, which is subject to change. Based on certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets available as of December 31, 2005 and relying on certain exceptions in the applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, we do not believe that we are currently a PFIC. Characterization as a PFIC could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors in our common shares. In particular, absent an election described below, a U.S. investor would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at ordinary income tax rates, plus a possible interest charge, in respect of gain derived from a disposition of our shares, as well as certain distributions by us. In addition, a step-up in the tax basis of our shares would not be available upon the death of an individual shareholder, and the preferential U.S. federal income tax rates generally applicable to qualified dividend income of certain U.S. investors would not apply. Since PFIC status is determined by us on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets and the nature of our activities from time to time, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. investors may desire to make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund” with respect to shares owned (a “QEF election”), in which case U.S. investors will be required to take into account a pro rata share of our earnings and net capital gain for each year, regardless of whether we make any distributions. As an alternative to the QEF election, a U.S. investor may be able to make an election to “mark to market” our shares each taxable year and recognize ordinary income pursuant to such election based upon increases in the value of our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved staff comments. 