Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our financial condition and business operations. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Relating to Our Business and Industries The availability, demand for and price of agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products can be affected by weather, disease and other factors beyond our control. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodities industry and consequently in our operating results by causing crop failures or significantly reduced harvests, which can adversely affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business, 16 reduce the demand for our fertilizer products and negatively affect the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers. The availability and price of agriculture commodities are also subject to other unpredictable factors, such as plantings, government farm programs and policies and changes in global demand resulting from population growth and changes in standards of living. In addition, the supply and price of agricultural commodities can be affected by factors such as plant disease, including Asian soybean rust, which has in recent years affected soybean crops in Brazil and the United States. These factors may also cause volatility in the agricultural commodities industry and, consequently, in our operating results. We are vulnerable to cyclicality in the oilseed processing industry and increases in raw material prices. In the oilseed processing industry, the lead time required to build an oilseed processing plant can make it difficult to time capacity additions with market demand for oilseed products such as meal and oil. When additional processing capacity becomes operational, a temporary imbalance between the supply and demand for oilseed processing capacity might exist, which until it is corrected, negatively impacts oilseed processing margins. Oilseed processing margins will continue to fluctuate following industry cycles, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our food products and fertilizer divisions may also be adversely affected by increases in the price of agricultural commodities and fertilizer raw materials that are caused by market fluctuations beyond our control. As a result of competitive conditions in our food products businesses, we may not be able to recoup increases in the cost of raw materials through increases in sales prices for our products, which would adversely affect our profitability. In addition, increases in fertilizer prices due to higher raw material costs could adversely affect demand for our products. We are subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally and in emerging markets. We are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the United States from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue. Our operations in South America and Europe are a fundamental part of our business. In addition, a key part of our strategy involves expanding our business in several emerging markets, including Eastern Europe and Asia. Volatile economic, political and market conditions in these and other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on our operating results and our ability to achieve our business strategies. We are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations because a significant portion of our net sales and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Brazilian real, the Argentine peso and the European euro, affect our expenses that are denominated in local currencies, affect farm economics in those markets and may have a negative impact on the value of our assets located outside of the United States. We are also exposed to other risks of international operations, including: · increased governmental ownership, including through expropriation, and regulation of the economy in the markets where we operate; · inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of higher interest rates and wage and price controls; 17 · trade barriers on imports or exports, such as quotas or higher tariffs and taxes on imports of agricultural commodities and commodity products; · changes in the tax laws or potentially adverse tax regulations in the countries where we operate; · exchange controls or other currency restrictions; and · civil unrest or significant political instability. The occurrence of any of these events in the markets where we operate or in other markets where we plan to expand or develop our business could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Government policies and regulations affecting the agricultural sector and related industries could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Agricultural production and trade flows are significantly affected by government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops versus other uses of agricultural resources, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded and the volume and types of imports and exports. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Future government policies may adversely affect the supply, demand for and prices of our products, restrict our ability to do business in our existing and target markets and could cause our financial results to suffer. The expansion of our business through acquisitions and strategic alliances poses risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these transactions. We have been an active acquirer of other companies, and we have strategic alliances and joint ventures with several partners. Part of our strategy involves acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures designed to expand and enhance our business. Our ability to benefit from acquisitions and alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisition or alliance prospects, access capital markets at an acceptable cost of capital, negotiate favorable transaction terms and successfully integrate any businesses we acquire. Integrating businesses we acquire into our operational framework may involve unanticipated delays, costs and other operational problems. If we encounter unexpected problems with one of our acquisitions or alliances, our senior management may be required to divert attention away from other aspects of our businesses to address these problems. Acquisitions also pose the risk that we may be exposed to successor liability relating to actions by an acquired company and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations and reduce the benefits of the acquisition. We are subject to food and feed industry risks. We are subject to food and feed industry risks which include, but are not limited to, product spoilage or contamination, government regulation of the food and feed industry, including processing and labeling 18 regulations, shifting customer and consumer preferences and concerns, including concerns regarding trans-fatty acids and, as further discussed below, genetically modified organisms as well as other environmental concerns, and potential product liability claims. These matters could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. The use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in food and animal feed has been met with varying acceptance in the different markets in which we operate. In some of the markets where we sell our products, most significantly the European Union and Brazil, government regulations limit sales or require labeling of GMO products. We may inadvertently deliver products that contain GMOs to customers that request GMO-free products. As a result, we could lose customers, incur liability and damage our reputation. In addition, in certain countries we may be subject to claims or other actions relating to the alleged infringement of intellectual property rights associated with our handling of genetically modified agricultural commodities, which could result in increased costs for our business. In addition, certain of our products are used as, or as ingredients in, livestock and poultry feed, and as such, we are subject to demand risks associated with the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry, including, but not limited to, avian influenza. The outbreak of disease could adversely affect demand for our products used in livestock and poultry feed. A decrease in demand for these products could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We face intense competition in each of our divisions, particularly in our agribusiness and food products divisions. We face significant competition in each of our divisions, particularly in our agribusiness and food products divisions. We have numerous competitors, some of which may be larger and have greater financial resources than we have. In addition, we face significant competitive challenges outlined below. Agribusiness. The markets for our products are highly price competitive and are sensitive to product substitution. We compete against large multinational, regional and national suppliers, processors and distributors and farm cooperatives. Competition is based on price, product and service offerings and geographic location. Food Products. Several of the markets in which our food products division operates, particularly those in which we sell retail consumer products, are mature and highly competitive. In addition, consolidation in the supermarket industry has resulted in our retail customers demanding lower prices and reducing the number of suppliers with which they do business. To compete effectively in our food products division, we must establish and maintain favorable brand recognition, efficiently manage distribution, gain sufficient market share, develop products sought by consumers and other customers, implement appropriate pricing, provide marketing support and obtain access to retail outlets and sufficient shelf space for our retail products. In addition, sales of our soybean oil products could be subject to increased competition as a result of adverse publicity and labeling requirements in the U.S. associated with trans-fatty acids. If our competitors are able to offer or develop low trans-fatty acid products more economically or quickly than we can, our competitive position could suffer and our edible oil products segment revenues and profits could be negatively affected. Competition could cause us to lose market share, exit certain lines of business, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We are subject to environmental regulation in numerous jurisdictions and may be exposed to liability as a result of our handling of hazardous materials and commodities storage operations. Our operations are regulated by environmental laws and regulations in the countries where we operate, including those governing the labeling, use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. These laws and regulations require us to implement procedures for the handling of hazardous 19 materials and for operating in potentially hazardous conditions, and they impose liability on us for the cleanup of any environmental contamination. In addition to liabilities arising out of our current and future operations for which we have ongoing processes to manage compliance with environmental obligations, we may be subject to liabilities for past operations at current facilities and in some cases to liabilities for past operations by us at facilities that we no longer own or operate. We may also be subject to liabilities for operations of acquired companies. In addition, the storage and processing of our products may create hazardous conditions. For example, we use hexane in our oilseed processing operations, and hexane can cause explosions that could harm our employees or damage our facilities. Our agricultural commodities storage operations also create dust that has caused explosions in our grain elevators. We may incur material costs or liabilities to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, changes in environmental requirements or an unanticipated significant adverse environmental event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation” and “Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters.” We advance significant capital and provide other financing arrangements to farmers in Brazil and, as a result, our business and financial results may be adversely affected if these farmers are unable to repay the capital we have advanced to them. In Brazil, where there are fewer third-party financing sources available to farmers, we provide financing services to farmers from whom we purchase soybeans and other agricultural commodities through prepaid commodity purchase contracts and advances to farmers, which are typically secured by the farmer’s crop and a mortgage on the farmer’s land and other assets. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had approximately $866 million and $924 million in outstanding prepaid commodity purchase contracts and advances to farmers, respectively. We are exposed to the risk that the underlying crop will be unable to satisfy a farmer’s obligation under the financing arrangements as a result of weather and crop growing conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. In addition, any collateral held by us as part of these financing transactions may not be sufficient to fully protect us from loss. In addition, we sell fertilizer on credit to farmers in Brazil. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, our total fertilizer segment accounts receivable were $746 million and $676 million, respectively. During 2006, approximately 63% of our fertilizer sales were made on credit. Furthermore, in connection with our fertilizer sales, we issue guarantees to a financial institution in Brazil related to amounts owed the institution by certain of our farmer customers. For additional information on our guarantees see Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the event that the customers default on their payments to us or the financial institution under these financing arrangements, we would be required to recognize the associated bad debt expense or perform under the guarantees, as the case may be. Although our prior loss experience has been minimal, significant defaults by farmers under these financial arrangements could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are a capital intensive business and depend on cash provided by our operations as well as access to external financing to operate and expand our business. We require significant amounts of capital to operate our business and fund capital expenditures. Our future funding requirements will depend, in large part, on our working capital requirements and the nature of our capital expenditures. We are required to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, upgrade and expand our extensive network of storage facilities, processing plants, refineries, mills, mines, ports, transportation assets and other facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances and changing safety standards in our industry. In addition, the expansion of our business and pursuit of acquisitions or other business opportunities may require us to have access to significant amounts of capital. We intend to fund a portion of our future capital expenditures, working capital and other funding requirements from our cash flows provided by operating activities and from external sources of 20 financing. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or raise sufficient external financing on attractive terms to fund these activities, we may not be able to achieve our desired operating efficiencies and expansion plans, which may adversely impact our competitiveness and, therefore, our results of operations. In addition, significant unbudgeted increases in our capital expenditures could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2006, we had $3,484 million in total indebtedness. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged than we are and require us to dedicate more cash on a relative basis to servicing our debt and less to developing our business. This may limit our ability to run our business and use our resources in the manner in which we would like. In June 2006, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) and Fitch Ratings revised their outlook on the credit rating of our unsecured guaranteed senior notes to “BBB with a negative outlook” from “BBB with a stable outlook”. Subsequently, on November 14, 2006, S&P lowered the credit rating on our unsecured guaranteed senior notes to “BBB- with a stable outlook” from “BBB with a negative outlook”. Also, on July 31, 2006, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) placed the Baa2 rating on our unsecured guaranteed senior notes under review for possible downgrade. Subsequently, on December 4, 2006, Moody’s revised their outlook on the credit rating of our guaranteed senior unsecured notes to “Baa2 with a negative outlook” from “Baa2”. We do not have any ratings downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of our debt. However, credit rating downgrades would increase our borrowing costs under our credit facilities and, depending on their severity, affect our ability to renew existing or to obtain new credit facilities or access the capital markets in the future on favorable terms. We may also be required to post collateral or provide third-party credit support under certain agreements as a result of such downgrades. An interruption of our access to credit or a significant increase in our borrowing costs could impair our ability to compete effectively in our business relative to competitors with lower amounts of indebtedness and/or higher credit ratings. Our risk management strategy may not be effective. Our business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodities prices, freight rates, energy prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We engage in hedging transactions to manage these risks. However, our hedging strategy may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. In addition, our control procedures and risk management policies may not successfully prevent our traders from entering into unauthorized transactions that have the potential to impair our financial position. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Risks Relating to Our Common Shares We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us and our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies or corporations incorporated in other jurisdictions. Most of our directors and some of our officers are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the U.S. judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or 21 officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws and have adopted a shareholder rights plan that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: · a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; · directors to be removed without cause only upon the affirmative vote of at least 66% of all votes attaching to all shares then in issue entitling the holder to attend and vote on the resolution; · restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; · our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and · an affirmative vote of at least 66% of all votes attaching to all shares then in issue entitling the holder to attend and vote on the resolution for some business combination transactions, which have not been approved by our board of directors. In addition, we have a shareholder rights plan which will entitle shareholders to purchase our Series A Preference Shares if a third-party acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common shares. In some circumstances, shareholders are also entitled to purchase the common stock of a company issuing shares in exchange for our common shares in a merger, amalgamation or tender offer or a company acquiring most of our assets. Although our shareholder rights plan is scheduled to terminate in August 2007, our board of directors could, under certain circumstances following such termination, adopt a new shareholder rights plan in the future. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Adverse U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. investors owning shares of a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, directly or indirectly. We will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if 50% or more of our assets, including goodwill (based on an annual quarterly average), are passive assets, or 75% or more of our annual gross income is derived from passive assets. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the then market value of our common shares, which is subject to change. Based on certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets available as of December 31, 2006 and relying on certain exceptions in the applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, we do not believe that we are currently a PFIC. Characterization as a PFIC could result in adverse U.S. tax 22 consequences to U.S. investors in our common shares. In particular, absent an election described below, a U.S. investor would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at ordinary income tax rates, plus a possible interest charge, in respect of gain derived from a disposition of our shares, as well as certain distributions by us. In addition, a step-up in the tax basis of our shares would not be available upon the death of an individual shareholder, and the preferential U.S. federal income tax rates generally applicable to qualified dividend income of certain U.S. investors would not apply. Since PFIC status is determined by us on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets and the nature of our activities from time to time, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. investors may desire to make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund” with respect to shares owned (a “QEF election”), in which case U.S. investors will be required to take into account a pro rata share of our earnings and net capital gain for each year, regardless of whether we make any distributions. As an alternative to the QEF election, a U.S. investor may be able to make an election to “mark to market” our shares each taxable year and recognize ordinary income pursuant to such election based upon increases in the value of our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 