Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors when evaluating our business. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR DEPENDENCE ON VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS If we fail to obtain renewals of one or more of our dealer agreements on favorable terms, if certain of our franchises are terminated, or if certain manufacturers’ rights under their agreements with us are triggered, our operations may be adversely affected. Each of our dealerships operates under the terms of a dealer agreement with the manufacturer (or manufacturer-authorized distributor) of each new vehicle brand it carries and/or is authorized to service. Our dealerships may obtain new vehicles from manufacturers, service vehicles, sell new vehicles and display vehicle manufacturers’ trademarks only to the extent permitted under dealer agreements. As a result of the terms of our dealer, framework and related agreements and our dependence on these franchise rights, manufacturers exercise a great deal of control over our day-to-day operations and the terms of these agreements govern key aspects of our operations, acquisition strategy and capital spending. Our franchise agreements may be terminated or not renewed by manufacturers for a number of reasons, and many of the manufacturers have the right to direct us to divest our dealerships if there is a default under the franchise agreement, an unapproved change of control, or other unapproved events. We cannot assure you we will be able to renew any of our existing dealer agreements or that we will be able to obtain renewals on favorable terms. Most of our dealer agreements also provide the manufacturer with the right of first refusal to 16 Table of Contents purchase from us any franchise we seek to sell. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our franchise rights become compromised or our operations restricted due to the terms of our dealer agreements or if we lose franchises representing a significant source of our revenues. Our failure to meet manufacturer consumer satisfaction, financial or sales performance requirements may adversely affect our ability to acquire new dealerships and our profitability. Many manufacturers attempt to measure customers’ satisfaction with their experience in our sales and service departments through rating systems that are generally known in the automotive retailing industry as consumer satisfaction indexes (“CSI”). CSI ratings are in addition to the right of manufacturers to monitor the financial and sales performance of dealerships. At the time we acquire a dealership or enter into a new dealership or framework agreement, several manufacturers establish sales or performance criteria for that dealership, in some cases in the form of a business plan. These criteria have been modified by various manufacturers from time to time in the past, and we cannot assure you that they will not be further modified or replaced by different criteria in the future. Some of our dealerships have had difficulty from time to time meeting these standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these standards in the future. In addition, manufacturers may use these criteria as factors in evaluating applications for acquisitions. A manufacturer may refuse to consent to our acquisition of one of its franchises if it determines our dealerships do not comply with its performance standards. This may impede our ability to execute our acquisition strategy and hinder our ability to grow. See also, “Risk Factors Related to our Dependence on Vehicle Manufacturers—Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions may limit our future growth and impact our profitability.” In addition, we receive payments and incentives from certain manufacturers based, in part, on CSI scores, and future payments may be materially reduced or eliminated if our CSI scores decline. The reorganization or bankruptcy of one or more of the manufacturers could have a material adverse affect on our operations. Certain manufacturers have incurred substantial operating losses in recent periods. Sustained periods of poor financial performance by a manufacturer may force it to seek to reorganize or to seek protection from creditors in bankruptcy. A reorganization by a manufacturer may, among other things, result in a delay in the introduction of new or competitive makes or models, an elimination of certain makes or models or dealership locations, a disruption in delivery or availability of service or parts, a delay or failure to reimburse us for warranty work and holdback receivables, or a disruption in vehicle deliveries to our dealerships. If an attempted reorganization proves unsuccessful for the manufacturer, the continued financial distress could result in the cessation of its operations. In the event of a bankruptcy by a vehicle manufacturer, among other things: (i) the manufacturer could seek to terminate all or certain of our franchises, and we may not receive adequate compensation for them, (ii) we may not be able to collect some or all of our receivables that are due from such manufacturer and we may be subject to preference claims relating to payments to us made by such manufacturer prior to bankruptcy, (iii) it may increase our cost to obtain financing for our new vehicle inventory with such manufacturer’s captive finance subsidiary, which may cause us to finance our new vehicle inventory with alternate finance sources on less favorable terms, and (iv) consumer demand for such manufacturer’s products could be materially adversely affected, especially if costs related to improving such manufacturer’s poor financial condition are imputed to the price of its products. The occurrence of any one or more of the above-mentioned events could have a material adverse affect on our day-to-day operations. Furthermore, such events could result in a partial write-down of our manufacturer franchise rights (to the extent that we have recorded them) or our receivables, and a partial write-down of our goodwill. See also “Risk Factors—Risk Factors Related to our Dependence on Vehicle Manufacturers—Adverse conditions affecting the manufacturers may negatively impact our revenues and profitability.” Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions may limit our future growth and impact our profitability. We are generally required to obtain manufacturer consent before we can acquire any additional dealerships. In addition, many of our dealer and framework agreements require that we meet certain customer service and sales performance standards as a condition to additional dealership acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will meet these performance standards or that manufacturers will consent to future acquisitions, which may deter us from being able to take advantage of market opportunities and restrict our ability to expand our business. The process of applying for and obtaining manufacturer consents can take a significant amount of time, generally 60 to 90 days or more. Delays in consummating acquisitions caused by this process may negatively affect our ability to acquire dealerships that we believe will produce acquisition synergies and integrate well into our overall growth strategy. In addition, manufacturers typically establish minimum capital requirements for each of their 17 Table of Contents dealerships on a case-by-case basis. As a condition to granting consent to a proposed acquisition, a manufacturer may require us to remodel and upgrade our facilities and capitalize the subject dealership at levels we would not otherwise choose, causing us to divert our financial resources from uses that management believes may be of higher long-term value to us. Furthermore, the exercise by manufacturers of their right of first refusal to acquire a dealership may prevent us from acquiring dealerships that we have identified as important to our growth, thereby having an adverse affect on our ability to grow through acquisitions. Many vehicle manufacturers place limits on the total number of franchises that any group of affiliated dealerships may own. Certain manufacturers place limits on the number of franchises or share of total brand vehicle sales maintained by an affiliated dealership group on a national, regional or local basis, as well as limits on store ownership in contiguous markets. If we reach these limits, we may be prevented from making further acquisitions, which could affect our growth. If state dealer laws that protect automotive retailers are repealed, weakened or superseded by our framework agreements with manufacturers, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their dealer agreements. Applicable state dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a dealer agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth “good cause” and stating the grounds for termination or non-renewal. Some state dealer laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or attempt to comply with the manufacturer’s criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or non-renewal. Though unsuccessful to date, manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state dealer laws. We have framework agreements with certain of our manufacturers. Among other provisions, these agreements attempt to limit the protections available to dealers under state dealer laws. If dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, it may also be more difficult for our dealers to renew their dealer agreements upon expiration. See “Business—Dealer and Framework Agreements—Regulations.” Our dealerships depend upon vehicle sales and, therefore, their success depends in large part upon customer demand for the particular vehicle lines they carry. The success of our dealerships depends in large part on the overall success of the vehicle lines they carry. Historically, we have generated most of our revenue through new vehicle sales. New vehicle sales also tend to lead to sales of higher-margin products and services such as finance and insurance products and parts and services. Although we have sought to limit our dependence on any one vehicle brand, we have focused our new vehicle sales operations on mid-line import and luxury brands. For the year ended December 31, 2007, brands representing 5% or more of our revenues from new vehicle retail sales were as follows: Brand % of Total NewLight VehicleRetail Sales Honda 23 % Nissan 13 % Mercedes-Benz 9 % Toyota 8 % BMW 8 % Lexus 7 % Ford 6 % Acura 5 % No other brand accounted for more than 5% of our total new vehicle retail sales revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. If we fail to obtain a desirable mix of popular new vehicles from manufacturers, our profitability will be negatively impacted. We depend on manufacturers to provide us with a desirable mix of popular new vehicles. Typically, popular vehicles produce the highest profit margins but tend to be the most difficult to obtain from manufacturers. Manufacturers generally allocate their vehicles among their franchised dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership and in some instances on the level of capital expenditures. If our dealerships experience prolonged sales slumps, those manufacturers will cut back their allotments of popular vehicles to our dealerships and new vehicle sales and profits may decline. 18 Table of Contents If automobile manufacturers decrease or discontinue incentive programs, our sales volumes may be adversely affected. Our dealerships benefit from certain sales incentives, warranties and other programs of our manufacturers that are intended to promote and support new vehicle sales. Some key incentive programs include: • customer rebates on new vehicles; • dealer incentives on new vehicles; • special financing or leasing terms; and • warranties on new and used vehicles. Manufacturers often make many changes to their incentive programs during each year. A reduction or discontinuation of key manufacturers’ incentive programs may reduce our new vehicle unit sales and related revenue. Adverse conditions affecting the manufacturers of the vehicles that we sell may negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Our ability to successfully market vehicles to the public depends to a great extent on aspects of our manufacturers’ operations. Conditions which negatively affect our manufacturers in the following areas could similarly have an adverse affect on our revenues and profitability: • financial condition; • marketing efforts; • vehicle design; • production capabilities; • reputation for quality; • management; and • labor relations. Manufacturers’ restrictions regarding a change in our stock ownership may result in the termination or forced sale of our franchises, which may adversely impact the value of our common stock. Some of our dealer agreements and framework agreements with manufacturers prohibit transfers of any ownership interests of a dealership or, in some cases, its parent, without manufacturer consent. Our agreements with some manufacturers provide that, under certain circumstances, we may lose the franchise (either through termination or forced sale) if a person or entity acquires an ownership interest in us above a specified level or if a person or entity acquires the right to vote a specified level of our common stock without the approval of the applicable manufacturer. Violations by our stockholders of these ownership restrictions are generally outside of our control and may result in the termination or non-renewal of our dealer and framework agreements or forced sale of one or more franchises, which may have a material adverse effect on us. These restrictions may also prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION Substantial competition in automobile sales and services may adversely affect our profitability. The automotive retail and service industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location and selection. Our competition includes: • franchised automobile dealerships in our markets that sell the same or similar new and used vehicles; • privately negotiated sales of used vehicles; • Internet-based used vehicle brokers that sell used vehicles to consumers; 19 Table of Contents • service center chain stores; and • independent service and repair shops. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers. We typically rely on advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, service reputation and dealership location to sell new and used vehicles. Our dealer agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. Our revenues or profitability may be materially and adversely affected if competing dealerships expand their market share or additional franchises are awarded in our markets. RISKS RELATED TO THE AUTOMOTIVE RETAIL INDUSTRY Our business will be harmed if overall consumer demand suffers from a significant or sustained downturn. Our business is heavily dependent on consumer demand and preferences. Our revenues will be materially and adversely affected if there is a significant or sustained downturn in overall levels of consumer spending. Retail vehicle sales are cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns characterized by oversupply and weak demand. These cycles are often dependent on general economic conditions and consumer confidence, as well as the level of discretionary personal income, credit availability and interest rates. The current economic climate in the United States and future recessions may have a material adverse effect on our retail business, particularly sales of new and used automobiles. In addition, significant or sustained increases in gasoline prices may lead to a reduction in automobile purchases or a shift in buying patterns from luxury or SUV models (which typically provide higher profit margins to retailers) to smaller, more economical vehicles (which typically have lower margins). Our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in our local markets, even if those conditions are not prominent nationally. Our performance is also subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in our various geographic areas. Our dealerships currently are located in the Atlanta, Austin, Chapel Hill, Charlotte, Charlottesville, Dallas-Fort Worth, Fayetteville, Fort Pierce, Fresno, Greensboro, Greenville, Houston, Jackson, Jacksonville, Little Rock, Los Angeles, Orlando, Princeton, Richmond, Sacramento, St. Louis and Tampa markets and the results of our operations therefore depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending levels in those areas. The seasonality of the automobile retail business magnifies the importance of our second and third quarter results. The automobile industry is subject to seasonal variations in revenues. Demand for automobiles is generally lower during the first and fourth quarters of each year. Accordingly, we expect our revenues and operating results generally to be lower in our first and fourth quarters than in our second and third quarters. If conditions surface during the second or third quarters that weaken automotive sales, such as severe weather in the geographic areas in which our dealerships operate, war, high fuel costs, depressed economic conditions or similar adverse conditions, our revenues for the year will be disproportionately adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by import product restrictions, foreign trade risks and currency valuations that may impair our ability to sell foreign vehicles or parts profitably. A portion of our new vehicle business involves the sale of vehicles, parts or vehicles composed of parts that are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations are subject to customary risks of importing merchandise, including import duties, exchange rates, trade restrictions, work stoppages and general political and socio-economic conditions in other countries. The United States or the countries from which our products are imported may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs, which may affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and/or parts at reasonable prices. The relative weakness of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies may adversely affect our cost of purchase of certain vehicles, which may also result in an increase in the retail price of such vehicles, which could discourage consumers from purchasing such vehicles. This could adversely impact our profitability. 20 Table of Contents A decline of available financing may adversely affect our sales of vehicles and the results of our finance and insurance business. The majority of vehicle buyers finance their purchases, particularly those seeking to purchase used vehicles. If there is a decline in the availability of credit or an increase in the cost to consumers for such credit, the ability of consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited, resulting in a decline in our vehicle sales. Retail sales of used vehicles generally have higher gross margins than new vehicles. A decline in our vehicle sales could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and an adverse effect on our profitability. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY If we are unable to acquire and successfully integrate additional dealerships, we will be unable to realize desired results from our growth through acquisition strategy and acquired operations will drain resources from comparatively profitable operations. We believe that the automobile retailing industry is a mature industry whose sales are significantly impacted by the prevailing economic climate in local markets. Accordingly, we believe that our future growth depends in part on our ability to manage expansion, control costs in our operations and acquire and integrate acquired dealerships into our organization. In pursuing our strategy of acquiring other dealerships, we face risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to: • failing to obtain manufacturers’ consents to acquisitions of additional franchises; • incurring significant transaction related costs for both completed and failed acquisitions; • incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships and impairing relationships with employees; • incurring undisclosed liabilities at acquired dealerships; • disrupting our ongoing business and diverting our management resources to newly acquired dealerships; and • impairing relationships with manufacturers and customers as a result of changes in management. We may not adequately anticipate all the demands that our growth will impose on our personnel, procedures and structures, including our financial and reporting control systems, data processing systems and management structure. Moreover, our failure to retain qualified management personnel at any acquired dealership may increase the risk associated with integrating the acquired dealership. If we cannot adequately anticipate and respond to these demands, we may fail to realize acquisition synergies and our resources will be focused on incorporating new operations into our structure rather than on areas that may be more profitable. See also “Risk Factors Related to our Dependence on Vehicle Manufacturers—Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions may limit our future growth and impact our profitability.” There is competition to acquire automotive dealerships, and we may not be able to fully implement our growth through acquisition strategy if attractive targets are acquired by competing buyers or if the market drives prices to the point where an acceptable rate of return is not achievable. We believe that the United States automotive retailing market is fragmented and offers many potential acquisition candidates that meet our target criteria. However, we compete with several other national, regional and local dealer groups, and other strategic and financial buyers, some of which may have greater financial resources. Competition for attractive acquisition targets may result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us, and increased acquisition costs. We will have to forego acquisition opportunities to the extent that we cannot negotiate acquisitions on acceptable terms. OTHER RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Failure to comply with certain covenants in our debt and lease agreements could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and adversely affect our compliance with our Committee Credit Facility. We have certain debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had total debt of $482.3 million, excluding floor plan notes payable and the effects of our fair value hedge on our 8% Notes. In addition, we and our subsidiaries have the ability to obtain additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, real property purchases, capital expenditures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in our Committed Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 8% Notes and our 7.625% Notes. We will have substantial debt service obligations, consisting of required cash payments of principal and interest, for the foreseeable future. 21 Table of Contents In addition, we have operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt instruments, including our Committed Credit Facility and the indentures under our 8% Notes and our 7.625% Notes. These place restrictions on, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to create liens or other encumbrances, and to make certain payments (including dividends and repurchases of our shares and investments). Our Committed Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt instruments or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event of any default under our Committed Credit Facility, the payment of all outstanding borrowings could be accelerated, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, and we would be required to apply our available cash to repay these borrowings or could be prevented from making debt service payments on our 8% Notes, our 7.625% Notes, and our 3% Notes, any of which would be an event of default under the respective indentures for such Notes. In addition, as a result of entering into a number of sale-leaseback agreements, a number of our dealerships are located on properties that we lease. Each of the leases governing such properties has certain covenants with which we must comply. The loss of key personnel may adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team. Manufacturer dealer or framework agreements may require the prior approval of the applicable manufacturer before any change is made in dealership general managers. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees may materially impair the profitability of our operations. In addition, we may need to hire additional managers as we expand. Potential acquisitions are viable to us only if we are able to retain experienced managers or obtain replacement managers should the owner or manager of the acquired dealership not continue to manage the business. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. The loss of the services of key employees or the inability to attract additional qualified managers may adversely affect the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with the standards set by us or the manufacturers. We depend on our executive officers as well as other key personnel. Most of our key personnel not are bound by employment agreements, and those with employment agreements are bound only for a limited period of time. Further, we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key personnel. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and implement our business plans. Our capital costs and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by changes in interest rates. We generally finance our purchases of new vehicle inventory and have the ability to finance the purchase of used vehicle inventory using floor plan credit facilities under which we are charged interest at floating rates. In addition, we have the ability to obtain capital for general corporate purposes, dealership acquisitions and property purchases and improvements under predominantly floating interest rate credit facilities. Therefore, our interest expense from variable rate debt will rise with increases in interest rates. In addition, a significant rise in interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used vehicle sales, because many of our customers finance their vehicle purchases. As a result, rising interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues. Given our debt composition as of December 31, 2007, each one percent increase in market interest rates would increase our total annual interest expense, including floor plan interest, by $5.5 million. We receive interest credit assistance from certain automobile manufacturers, which is reflected as a reduction in the cost of inventory on the balance sheet and is recognized as a reduction in cost of sales. Although we can provide no assurance as to the amount of future floor plan credits, it is our expectation, based on historical experience that an increase in prevailing interest rates would result in increased interest credit assistance from certain automobile manufacturers. Our operations are subject to substantial laws and regulations and related claims and proceedings, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including local licensing requirements. These laws regulate the conduct of our business, including motor vehicle and retail installment sales practices; leasing; sales of finance, insurance and vehicle protection products; truth in lending; deceptive 22 Table of Contents trade practices; consumer protection; consumer privacy; money laundering; advertising; land use and zoning; health and safety and employment practices. Environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, discharges into the air and water, storage of petroleum substances and chemicals, the handling and disposal of wastes and remediation of contamination arising from spills and releases. If we or our employees at the individual dealerships violate or are alleged to violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to individual or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal actions investigations or actions and adverse publicity. Such actions could expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses and franchises to conduct dealership operations. Some jurisdictions regulate finance fees and administrative or document fees that may be charged in connection with vehicle sales, which could restrict our ability to generate revenue from these activities Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 141R “Business Combinations,” to provide greater transparency to the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial reports about a business combination and its effects. A substantial change brought about by SFAS No. 141R is the requirement to expense all acquisition related costs in pre-acquisition periods. SFAS No. 141R is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2008. We expect that the adoption of SFAS No. 141R will negatively impact our income before taxes by $0.1 million to $0.3 million per acquisition. During 2007, the FASB issued, but subsequently repealed, FSP–ABA 14-a, which was a proposal to change the accounting for convertible debt that may be settled in cash upon conversion. Should the FASB decided to issue FSP-ABA 14-a, such proposal would cause an increase to our interest expense by $4.1 million in 2009. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 