Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors when evaluating our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY If we are unable to generate sufficient cash, our ability to service our debt may be materially adversely affected, and our failure to comply with certain covenants in our debt, mortgage and lease agreements could adversely affect our ability to access our revolving credit facilities and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. We have substantial debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had total debt of $620.7 million, excluding floor plan notes payable and the effects of our terminated fair value hedge on our 8% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (the “8% Notes). In addition, we and our subsidiaries have the ability to obtain additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions, real property purchases, capital expenditures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in our BofA Revolving Credit Facility, our JPMorgan Used Vehicle Floor Plan Facility and the indentures governing our 8% Notes and our 7.625% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2017 (the “7.625% Notes”). We will have substantial debt service obligations, consisting of required cash payments of principal and interest, for the foreseeable future. In addition, we have operating and financial restrictions and covenants in certain of our leases and in our debt instruments, including our revolving credit facilities with Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., the indentures under our 8% Notes and our 7.625% Notes and the mortgage agreements or guarantees for mortgages held with Wachovia Bank, National Association, Wachovia Financial Services, Inc., BMW Financial Services NA, LLC and Wells Fargo, N.A. These restrictions and covenants limit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to create liens or other encumbrances, and to make certain payments (including dividends and repurchases of our shares and investments). Because of the uncertainties regarding our compliance with financial covenants during 2009, as discussed below, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph that indicated there is uncertainty that we will remain in compliance with certain covenants in our debt agreements and that condition raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern in its audit report for our 2008 financial statements. The inclusion of this going concern explanatory paragraph constituted a default under our BofA Revolving Credit Facility, JPMorgan Used Vehicle Floor Plan Facility and our floor plan facilities with General Motors Acceptance Corporation. We obtained waivers with respect to these defaults from the relevant lenders prior to the filing of this Form 10-K with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. However, there can be no assurances that (i) our independent public accounting firm will not issue a similar opinion in the future; (ii) we would be able to obtain waivers to our financial covenants; or (iii) we can repurchase debt as needed to remain compliant under our financial covenants. Our revolving credit facilities, mortgages and/or guarantees related to such mortgages, and certain of our lease agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all of these covenants. In order to satisfy certain of our financial covenants in 2008, we relied in part upon income recognized in connection with our purchases of $59.8 million of our outstanding debt securities at a significant discount. These purchases generated approximately $34.2 million of income before tax in 2008. We expect that we may need to engage in similar purchases in order to satisfy our financial covenants during 2009. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to make such repurchases in 2009 in amounts and at prices sufficient to satisfy our covenants and our ability to comply with these ratios, including our ability to repurchase debt significantly below face value, may be affected by events beyond our control. Our Board of Directors has authorized us to use an additional $50.0 million in cash to repurchase debt securities and/or make 21 Table of Contents unscheduled principal payments on our existing mortgages. Currently, our BofA Revolving Credit Facility and our JPMorgan Used Vehicle Floor Plan Facility limit our ability to purchase our debt securities to $30.0 million per calendar year, plus 50% of the net proceeds from asset sales during any given calendar year. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants would constitute a default under the relevant debt agreements, which would entitle the lenders under such agreements to terminate our ability to borrow under the relevant agreements and accelerate our obligations to repay outstanding borrowings unless compliance with the covenants is waived. Obtaining such waivers often requires the payment to the bank lenders of certain fees. If we fail to satisfy any of these covenants, we could be required to apply our available cash to repay these borrowings and we could be prevented from making debt service payments on our 8% Notes, our 7.625% Notes, and our 3% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes due 2012. In many cases, defaults under one of our agreements could trigger cross default provisions in our other agreements. If we are unable to comply with our financial or other covenants, we would be required to seek waivers or modifications of our covenants from our lenders, or we would need to raise debt and/or equity financing or sell assets to generate proceeds sufficient to repay such debt. In light of current depressed conditions in the automotive industry and the exceptionally difficult current conditions in the credit markets generally, we cannot give any assurance that we would be able to successfully take these actions. A number of our dealerships are located on properties that we lease. Certain of the leases governing such properties have certain covenants with which we must comply. If we fail to comply with the covenants under our leases, the respective landlords could, among other remedies, terminate the leases and seek damages which could equal the amount to which the accelerated rents under the applicable lease for the remainder of the lease term exceeds the fair market rent over the same periods or evict us from the property. We have significant indebtedness, which may limit our flexibility to manage our business. Our indebtedness and lease obligations could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; • a substantial portion of our current cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations and other purposes; • some of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increasing interest rates; and • we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a relative competitive disadvantage and make us more vulnerable to changing market conditions and regulations. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. In particular, availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly, while the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to current debt, and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. 22 Table of Contents If the retail environment continues to be challenging and our dealerships are unable to generate sufficient cash, our liquidity position may be materially adversely affected and may impact our ability to continue as a going concern. The automotive retail environment experienced an unprecedented challenging environment during 2008, and we expect that the environment in 2009 will continue to be challenging. Excluding the impact of impairment expenses, we expect to experience lower net income in 2009 as compared to 2008, as a result of (i) our expectation of 2009 U.S. new vehicle unit sales between 10.0 million and 11.0 million, which had been above 16.0 million since 1999, and was 13.2 million for 2008, (ii) retail margins continuing to decrease while manufacturers bring supply in line with demand, and (iii) continued difficulty for consumers to secure vehicle financing. If we are unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow, we may need to sell certain of our dealerships or other assets and borrow under our existing credit facilities to generate cash to sustain our operations. In the current economic environment, there can be no assurance that, if necessary, we will be able to sell our dealerships and other assets in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, if at all. Furthermore, in the event we are required to sell dealership assets to maintain our liquidity, the sale of a material portion of such assets could have an adverse effect on our revenue stream, the size of our operations and the efficiencies that are generated from being a certain corporate size. If we are unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow or execute the sale of our assets in a timely and lucrative manner, our liquidity may be materially adversely affected, which could impact our ability to continue as a going concern. Although we currently have funds available for borrowings under our credit facilities to finance our operations, our lenders may be unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us if these lenders face bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale. The inability to draw cash under our credit facilities due to any such event facing any one of our lenders would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations. See also, “Risk Factors—Risks Related to our Company—Recent turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity” below. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions, an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other foreign governments and tighter availability of credit. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they could have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to borrow money to finance operations or obtain credit from creditors were to be impaired. We currently have revolving credit facilities with Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and a syndicate of other banks under those credit facilities, and we have hedge transactions in place with Wells Fargo, N.A., Wachovia Financial Services, Inc., Goldman Sachs & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch. If any of these financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us or have entered into hedge or similar transactions with us are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us or otherwise fulfill their obligations under the relevant transactions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate purposes. The recent events in the credit markets and financial services industry have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain. If these recent trends continue, additional equity or debt financing might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Any additional equity financings will be dilutive to our stockholders and any additional debt financings may involve operating covenants that further restrict our business, beyond the operating covenants currently in place. 23 Table of Contents In addition, the current economic crisis could also adversely impact our customers' ability to purchase or pay for vehicles or other products and services from us or adversely affect the manufacturers’ ability to provide us with vehicles, either of which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. See also, “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Automotive Retail Industry—A decline of available consumer financing may adversely affect our sales of vehicles and the results of our business” below. If economic conditions in the United States do not improve, and the capital markets remain depressed causing a further negative impact on our stock price, such negative effect on our stock price could jeopardize our listing on the NYSE and affect our ability to raise equity in the future. The United States economy has been in a recession since December 2007, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, and it is widely believed that certain elements of the economy, such as housing, were in decline before that time. These general economic conditions have had an adverse effect on the capital markets, causing a sharp decline in the overall stock market and the price of shares of stock in the automotive retailing sector of the economy. On December 31, 2008, our common stock closed at $4.57 on the NYSE and we had a market capitalization of approximately $146.0 million, representing a 70% and 69% decline in our stock price and market capitalization, respectively, from December 31, 2007. As of March 12, 2009, our common stock closed at $2.13 and we had a market capitalization of approximately $68.0 million. Market or business conditions may continue to decline, and may continue to have a negative impact on our stock price. If our common stock were to trade at an average 30-day closing market price of less than $1 per share and/or our equity market capitalization fell under the $25.0 million minimum requirement of the NYSE, our common stock could be removed from the NYSE and traded in the over the counter market. All of these factors, along with otherwise volatile equity market conditions, could limit our ability to raise new equity capital in the future. Our capital costs and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by changes in interest rates. We generally finance our purchases of new vehicle inventory and have the ability to finance the purchase of used vehicle inventory using floor plan credit facilities under which we are charged interest at floating rates. In addition, we have the ability to obtain capital for general corporate purposes, dealership acquisitions and property purchases and improvements under predominantly floating interest rate credit facilities. Therefore, our interest expense from variable rate debt will rise with increases in interest rates. In addition, a significant rise in interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used vehicle sales, because most of our customers finance their vehicle purchases. As a result, rising interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues. Given our debt composition as of December 31, 2008, each one percent increase in market interest rates would increase our total annual interest expense, including floor plan interest, by $7.3 million. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEPENDENCE ON VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS The reorganization or bankruptcy of one or more of the vehicle manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Certain vehicle manufacturers have incurred substantial operating losses in recent years and have required government bailout funds. Sustained periods of poor financial performance by a manufacturer may cause it to seek protection from creditors in bankruptcy. A reorganization by a manufacturer may, among other things, result in a delay in the introduction of new or competitive makes or models, an elimination of dealership locations, an elimination of certain makes or models, a decrease in the value of our inventory as consumer demand drops, a disruption in delivery or availability of service or parts, a delay or failure to reimburse us for warranty work and holdback receivables, a disruption in vehicle deliveries to our dealerships, or a significant disruption in the availability of consumer credit for the purchase or lease of vehicles or negative changes in the terms of such financing. If an attempted reorganization proves unsuccessful for the manufacturer, the continued financial distress could result in the cessation of its operations. 24 Table of Contents In the event of a bankruptcy by a vehicle manufacturer, among other things: (i) the manufacturer could seek to terminate all or certain of our franchises, and their efforts may be successful if the state dealership laws that limit their ability to terminate our franchise agreements are superseded by federal bankruptcy laws, (ii) if the manufacturer is successful in terminating all or certain of our franchises, we may not receive adequate compensation for them, (iii) we may not be able to collect some or all of our receivables that are due from such manufacturer and we may be subject to preference claims relating to payments to us made by such manufacturer prior to bankruptcy, (iv) our cost to obtain financing for our new vehicle inventory may increase with such manufacturer’s captive finance subsidiary or the manufacturer’s captive finance subsidiary may no longer provide financing for our new vehicle inventory, which may cause us to finance our new vehicle inventory with alternate finance sources on less favorable terms, (v) consumer demand for such manufacturer’s products could be materially adversely affected, especially if costs related to improving such manufacturer’s poor financial condition are imputed to the price of its products, (vi) may result in a significant disruption in the availability of consumer credit to purchase or lease vehicles or negative changes in the terms of such financing, which may negatively impact our sales, (vii) there may be a reduction in the value of receivables and inventory associated with that manufacturer and (viii) there may be an impairment of our manufacturer franchise rights, to the extent that such franchise rights are included in our consolidated balance sheet. The occurrence of any one or more of the above-mentioned events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our exposure in these areas of our inventory and manufacturer receivables, net of amounts due to manufacturers, as of December 31, 2008, together with comparative data as of December 31, 2007, are as follows: (in millions) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Chrysler Brands New vehicle inventory $ 21.0 $ 34.2 Parts inventory 1.9 2.0 Receivables, net of payables of $0.6 million and $0.9 million, respectively 0.7 1.0 General Motors Brands New vehicle inventory 49.0 60.5 Parts inventory 2.9 3.1 Receivables, net of payables of $0.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively 2.0 2.8 Manufacturer franchise rights 0.3 5.0 Ford Brands New vehicle inventory 54.8 72.0 Parts inventory 3.3 3.7 Receivables, net of payables of $0.4 million 3.4 4.3 Manufacturer franchise rights 3.3 4.5 Adverse conditions affecting the manufacturers of the vehicles that we sell may negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Our ability to successfully market vehicles to the public depends to a great extent on aspects of our manufacturers’ operations. Conditions which negatively affect our manufacturers in the following areas could similarly have an adverse affect on our revenues and profitability: • financial condition; • marketing efforts; • vehicle design; • production capabilities; • reputation for quality; 25 Table of Contents • management; and • labor relations. If we fail to obtain renewals of one or more of our dealer and framework agreements on favorable terms, if certain of our franchises are terminated, or if certain manufacturers’ rights under their agreements with us are triggered, our operations may be adversely affected. Each of our dealerships operates under the terms of a dealer agreement with the manufacturer (or manufacturer-authorized distributor) of each new vehicle brand it carries and/or is authorized to service. Our dealerships may obtain new vehicles from manufacturers, service vehicles, sell new vehicles and display vehicle manufacturers’ trademarks only to the extent permitted under dealer agreements. As a result of the terms of our dealer, framework and related agreements and our dependence on these franchise rights, manufacturers exercise a great deal of control over our day-to-day operations and the terms of these agreements govern key aspects of our operations, acquisition strategy and capital spending. Our franchise agreements may be terminated or not renewed by manufacturers for a number of reasons, and many of the manufacturers have the right to direct us to divest our dealerships if there is a default under the franchise agreement, an unapproved change of control, or other unapproved events. Although we currently have certain dealer agreements that will expire during 2009, and we expect that these agreements will be renewed, there can be no assurances that we will be able to renew these agreements or that we will be able to obtain renewals on favorable terms. Most of our dealer agreements also provide the manufacturer with the right of first refusal to purchase from us any franchise we seek to sell. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our franchise rights become compromised or our operations restricted due to the terms of our dealer agreements or if we lose franchises representing a significant source of our revenues. If we fail to comply with the financial covenants contained in certain of our framework agreements, the manufacturers who are parties to such agreements may terminate our dealer agreements with them and cause us to divest our dealerships with them, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain of our manufacturers require us to meet certain financial ratios. Our failure to comply with these ratios gives the manufacturer the right to reject proposed acquisitions, and may give them the right to repurchase their franchises for fair value. The inability to acquire additional dealerships could inhibit the growth of our business, and the repurchase of our dealerships by the manufacturers may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our failure to meet manufacturer consumer satisfaction, financial or sales performance requirements may adversely affect our ability to acquire new dealerships and our profitability. Many manufacturers attempt to measure customers’ satisfaction with their experience in our sales and service departments through rating systems that are generally known in the automotive retailing industry as consumer satisfaction indexes (“CSI”). CSI ratings are in addition to the right of manufacturers to monitor the financial and sales performance of dealerships. At the time we acquire a dealership or enter into a new dealership or framework agreement, several manufacturers establish sales or performance criteria for that dealership. These criteria have been modified by various manufacturers from time to time in the past, and we cannot assure you that they will not be further modified or replaced by different criteria in the future. Some of our dealerships have had difficulty from time to time meeting these standards. We cannot assure you that our dealerships will be able to comply with these standards in the future. In addition, manufacturers may use these criteria as factors in evaluating applications for acquisitions. A manufacturer may refuse to consent to our acquisition of one of its franchises if it determines our dealerships do not comply with its performance standards. This may impede our ability to execute acquisitions and hinder our ability to grow. In addition, we receive payments and incentives from certain manufacturers based, in part, on CSI scores, and future payments may be materially reduced or eliminated if our CSI scores decline. 26 Table of Contents Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions or divestitures may limit our future growth and impact our profitability. We are generally required to obtain manufacturer consent before we can acquire any additional dealerships. In addition, many of our dealer and framework agreements require that we meet certain customer service and sales performance standards as a condition to additional dealership acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will meet these performance standards or that manufacturers will consent to future acquisitions, which may prevent us from being able to take advantage of market opportunities and restrict our ability to expand our business. The process of applying for and obtaining manufacturer consents can take a significant amount of time, generally 60 to 90 days or more. Delays in consummating acquisitions caused by this process may negatively affect our ability to acquire dealerships that we believe will produce acquisition synergies and integrate well into our overall growth strategy. In addition, manufacturers typically establish minimum capital requirements for each of their dealerships on a case-by-case basis. As a condition to granting consent to a proposed acquisition, a manufacturer may require us to remodel and upgrade our facilities and capitalize the subject dealership at levels we would not otherwise choose, causing us to divert our financial resources from uses that management believes may be of higher long-term value to us. Furthermore, the exercise by manufacturers of their right of first refusal to acquire a dealership may prevent us from acquiring dealerships that we have identified as important to our growth, thereby having an adverse affect on our ability to grow through acquisitions. Likewise, from time to time, we may determine that it is in our best interest to divest of a dealership. Parties that are interested in acquiring our dealership must also seek the consent of the manufacturers. The refusal by the manufacturer to approve a potential buyer would delay the divestiture of the dealership, as we would either have to find another potential buyer or wait until the buyer is able to meet the requirements of the manufacturer. A delay in the sale of a dealership may have a negative impact on our profitability and an adverse affect on our business. Many vehicle manufacturers place limits on the total number of franchises that any group of affiliated dealerships may own. Certain manufacturers place limits on the number of franchises or share of total brand vehicle sales maintained by an affiliated dealership group on a national, regional or local basis, as well as limits on store ownership in contiguous markets. If we reach these limits, we may be prevented from making further acquisitions, which could affect our growth. If state dealer laws that protect automotive retailers are repealed, weakened or superseded by our framework agreements with manufacturers, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their dealer agreements. Applicable state dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a dealer agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth “good cause” and stating the grounds for termination or non-renewal. Some state dealer laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or attempt to comply with the manufacturer’s criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or non-renewal. Though unsuccessful to date, manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state dealer laws. We have framework agreements with certain of our manufacturers. Among other provisions, these agreements attempt to limit the protections available to dealers under state dealer laws. If dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, it may also be more difficult for our dealers to renew their dealer agreements upon expiration. Furthermore, if a manufacturer seeks protection from creditors in bankruptcy, it is possible that the federal bankruptcy laws may supersede the state laws which protect automotive retailers. See also, “Risk Factors —Risk Factors Related to our Dependence on Vehicle Manufacturers—The reorganization or bankruptcy of one or more of the vehicle manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our operations.” See “Business—Dealer and Framework Agreements—Regulations.” 27 Table of Contents Our dealerships depend upon vehicle sales and, therefore, their success depends in large part upon customer demand for the particular vehicle lines they carry. The success of our dealerships depends in large part on the overall success of the vehicle lines they carry. Historically, we have generated most of our revenue through new vehicle sales. New vehicle sales also tend to lead to sales of higher-margin products and services such as finance and insurance products and parts and services. Although we have sought to limit our dependence on any one vehicle brand, we have focused our new vehicle sales operations on mid-line import and luxury brands. For the year ended December 31, 2008, brands representing 5% or more of our revenues from new light vehicle retail sales were as follows: Brand % of Total NewLight VehicleRetail Sales Honda 25 % Nissan 11 % Toyota 10 % BMW 9 % Mercedes-Benz 8 % Lexus 6 % Ford 6 % Acura 5 % No other brand accounted for more than 5% of our total new light vehicle retail sales revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. If we fail to obtain a desirable mix of popular new vehicles from manufacturers, our profitability will be negatively impacted. We depend on manufacturers to provide us with a desirable mix of popular new vehicles. Typically, popular vehicles produce the highest profit margins but tend to be the most difficult to obtain from manufacturers. Manufacturers generally allocate their vehicles among their franchised dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership and in some instances on the level of capital expenditures. If our dealerships experience prolonged periods of sales declines, those manufacturers may cut back their allotments of popular vehicles to our dealerships and new vehicle sales and profits may decline. Furthermore, if a manufacturer fails to produce desirable vehicles or has a reputation for producing undesirable vehicles, and we own dealerships of that manufacturer, our revenues at those dealerships could be adversely affected as consumers veer their purchases toward more desirable brands, makes and models. If automobile manufacturers reduce or discontinue incentive programs, our sales volumes may be adversely affected. Our dealerships benefit from certain sales incentives, warranties and other programs of our manufacturers that are intended to promote and support new vehicle sales. Some key incentive programs include: • customer rebates on new vehicles; • dealer incentives on new vehicles; • special financing or leasing terms; • warranties on new and used vehicles; and • sponsorship of used vehicle sales by authorized new vehicle dealers. Manufacturers often make many changes to their incentive programs during each year. A reduction or discontinuation of key manufacturers’ incentive programs may reduce our new vehicle unit sales and related revenue. 28 Table of Contents Manufacturers’ restrictions regarding a change in our stock ownership may result in the termination or forced sale of our franchises, which may adversely impact the value of our common stock. Some of our dealer agreements and framework agreements with manufacturers prohibit transfers of any ownership interests of a dealership or, in some cases, its parent, without manufacturer consent. Our agreements with some manufacturers provide that, under certain circumstances, we may lose the franchise (either through termination or forced sale) if a person or entity acquires an ownership interest in us above a specified level or if a person or entity acquires the right to vote a specified level of our common stock without the approval of the applicable manufacturer. Violations by our stockholders of these ownership restrictions are generally outside of our control and may result in the termination or non-renewal of our dealer and framework agreements or forced sale of one or more franchises, which may have a material adverse effect on us. These restrictions may also prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO THE AUTOMOTIVE RETAIL INDUSTRY A continued decline in consumer demand will adversely affect our profitability. Our business is heavily dependent on consumer demand and preferences. We have witnessed severe economic conditions in the U.S. and globally in 2008 and the economic forecast for 2009 is equally bleak. The seasonally adjusted annual rate (“SAAR”) of new vehicle sales in the U.S. decreased to 10.3 million in the fourth quarter, compared to 16.2 million in U.S. industry-wide vehicle sales for the full-year of 2007. Our revenues will be materially and adversely affected if the downward trend in overall levels of consumer spending is not reversed. Retail vehicle sales are cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns characterized by oversupply and weak demand. These cycles are often dependent on general economic conditions and consumer confidence, as well as the level of discretionary personal income, credit availability and interest rates. The current economic climate in the United States and future recessions may have a material adverse effect on our retail business, particularly sales of new and used automobiles. In addition, fuel prices in 2008 reached historically high levels. Significant or sustained increases in gasoline prices could cause a reduction in automobile purchases and a shift in buying patterns from luxury or SUV models (which typically provide higher profit margins to retailers) to smaller, more economical vehicles (which typically have lower profit margins). A continued preference for smaller, more economic vehicles with lower profit margins by consumers may have an adverse affect on our revenues and results of operations. A decline of available consumer financing may adversely affect our sales of vehicles and the results of our business. The majority of vehicle buyers finance their purchases, particularly those seeking to purchase used vehicles. During 2008, consumers experienced a decline in the availability of credit due to a tightening of the lending markets. If there is a continued decline in the availability of credit or an increase in the cost to consumers for such credit, and such decline is sustained over several periods, the ability of consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited, resulting in a decline in our vehicle sales. Retail sales of used vehicles generally have higher gross margins than new vehicles. A decline in our vehicle sales could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and an adverse effect on our profitability. Our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in our local markets, even if those conditions are not prominent nationally. Our performance is also subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in our various geographic areas. Our dealerships currently are located in the Atlanta, Austin, Chapel Hill, Charlotte, Charlottesville, Dallas-Fort Worth, Fayetteville, Fort Pierce, Fresno, Greensboro, Greenville, Houston, Jackson, Jacksonville, Little Rock, Los Angeles, Orlando, Princeton, Richmond, Sacramento, St. Louis and Tampa markets and the results of our operations therefore depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending levels in those areas. 29 Table of Contents A decline of available financing in the sub-prime lending market may adversely affect our sales of used vehicles. The majority of vehicle buyers, particularly those seeking to purchase used vehicles, finance the purchase of such vehicles. Sub-prime lenders have historically provided financing to those buyers who, for a number of reasons, do not have access to traditional financing, including those buyers who have a poor credit history or lack the down payment necessary to purchase a vehicle. Sub-prime lenders have become more stringent with their credit standards, which has made it more difficult for consumers needing sub-prime financing to obtain credit. Furthermore, the sub-prime lenders may continue to apply higher standards in the future. If there is a continuous decline in the availability of credit in the sub-prime lending market, the ability of these consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited, resulting in a decline in our used vehicle sales. Retail sales of used vehicles generally have higher gross margins than new vehicles. A decline in our used vehicle sales could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The results of our second and third quarter results may be disproportionately affected by adverse conditions. The automobile industry is subject to seasonal variations in revenues. Demand for automobiles is generally lower during the first and fourth quarters of each year. Accordingly, we expect our revenues and operating results generally to be lower in our first and fourth quarters than in our second and third quarters. If conditions surface during the second or third quarters that weaken automotive sales, such as severe weather in the geographic areas in which our dealerships operate, war, high fuel costs, depressed economic conditions or similar adverse conditions, our revenues for the year will be disproportionately adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by import product restrictions, foreign trade risks and currency valuations that may impair our ability to sell foreign vehicles or parts profitably. A portion of our new vehicle business involves the sale of vehicles, parts or vehicles composed of parts that are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations are subject to customary risks of importing merchandise, including import duties, exchange rates, trade restrictions, work stoppages and general political and socio-economic conditions in other countries. The United States or the countries from which our products are imported may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs, which may affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and/or parts at reasonable prices. The relative weakness of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies may adversely affect our cost of purchasing certain vehicles, which may also result in an increase in the retail price of such vehicles, which could discourage consumers from purchasing such vehicles. This could adversely impact our profitability. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEALERSHIP PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT If we are unable to acquire and successfully integrate additional dealerships, we will be unable to realize desired results and acquired operations may drain resources from comparatively profitable operations. We believe that the automobile retailing industry is a mature industry whose sales are significantly impacted by the prevailing economic climate in local markets. Accordingly, we believe that our future growth depends in part on our ability to manage expansion, control costs in our operations and acquire and integrate acquired dealerships into our organization. In pursuing our strategy of acquiring other dealerships, we face risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to: • failing to obtain manufacturers’ consents to acquisitions of additional franchises; • incurring significant transaction related costs for both completed and failed acquisitions; • incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; 30 Table of Contents • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships and impairing relationships with employees; • incurring undisclosed liabilities at acquired dealerships; • disrupting our ongoing business and diverting our management resources to newly acquired dealerships; and • impairing relationships with manufacturers and customers as a result of changes in management. We may not adequately anticipate all the demands that our growth will impose on our personnel, procedures and structures, including our financial and reporting control systems, data processing systems and management structure. Moreover, our failure to retain qualified management personnel at any acquired dealership may increase the risk associated with integrating the acquired dealership. If we cannot adequately anticipate and respond to these demands, we may fail to realize acquisition synergies and our resources will be focused on incorporating new operations into our structure rather than on areas that may be more profitable. See also “Risk Factors Related to our Dependence on Vehicle Manufacturers—Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions or divestitures may limit our future growth and impact our profitability.” There is competition to acquire automotive dealerships, and we may not be able to fully implement our growth through acquisition strategy if attractive targets are acquired by competing buyers or if the market drives prices to the point where an acceptable rate of return is not achievable. We believe that the United States automotive retailing market is fragmented and offers many potential acquisition candidates that meet our target criteria. However, we compete with several other national, regional and local dealer groups, and other strategic and financial buyers, some of which may have greater financial resources. Competition for attractive acquisition targets may result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us, and increased acquisition costs. We will have to forego acquisition opportunities to the extent that we cannot negotiate acquisitions on acceptable terms. OTHER RISKS Substantial competition in automobile sales and services may adversely affect our profitability. The automotive retail and service industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location and selection. Our competition includes: • franchised automobile dealerships in our markets that sell the same or similar new and used vehicles; • privately negotiated sales of used vehicles; • Internet-based used vehicle brokers that sell used vehicles to consumers; • service center chain stores; and • independent service and repair shops. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers. We typically rely on advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, service reputation and dealership location to sell new and used vehicles. Our dealer agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. Our revenues or profitability may be materially and adversely affected if competing dealerships expand their market share or additional franchises are awarded in our markets. 31 Table of Contents Government regulations and environmental regulation compliance costs may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including local licensing requirements. These laws regulate the conduct of our business, including: • motor vehicle and retail installment sales practices; • leasing; • sales of finance, insurance and vehicle protection products; • consumer credit; deceptive trade practices; • consumer protection; • consumer privacy; • money laundering; • advertising; • land use and zoning; and • health and safety and employment practices. Environmental laws and regulations govern, among other things, discharges into the air and water, storage of petroleum substances and chemicals, the handling and disposal of wastes and remediation of contamination arising from spills and releases. In addition, we may also have liability in connection with materials that were sent to third-party recycling, treatment and/or disposal facilities under federal and state statutes. These federal and state statutes impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault or the legality of the conduct that contributed to the contamination. Similar to many of our competitors, we have incurred and will continue to incur capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with such federal and state statutes. If we or our employees at the individual dealerships violate or are alleged to violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to individual or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal actions investigations or actions and adverse publicity. Such actions could expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses and franchises to conduct dealership operations. Some jurisdictions regulate finance fees and administrative or document fees that may be charged in connection with vehicle sales, which could restrict our ability to generate revenue from these activities. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, during 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FSP–ABA 14-a, which changed the accounting for convertible debt that may be settled in cash upon conversion. FSP-ABA 14-a will cause an increase to our interest expense by $1.7 million in 2009. 32 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel may adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team. Manufacturer dealer or framework agreements may require the prior approval of the applicable manufacturer before any change is made in dealership general managers or other management positions. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees may materially impair the profitability of our operations. In addition, we may need to hire additional managers as we expand. Potential acquisitions are viable to us only if we are able to retain experienced managers or obtain replacement managers should the owner or manager of the acquired dealership not continue to manage the business. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. The loss of the services of key employees or the inability to attract additional qualified managers may adversely affect the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with the standards set by us or the manufacturers. We depend on our executive officers as well as other key personnel. Most of our key personnel are not bound by employment agreements, and those with employment agreements are bound only for a limited period of time. Further, we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key personnel. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and implement our business plans. 33 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 