Item 1a. Risk Factors This filing contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. A variety of risks and uncertainties could cause Acuity Brands’ actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 36. These risks include, without limitation: Risks Related to the Business of Acuity Brands, Inc. General business and economic conditions may affect demand for the Company’s products and services, which could impact results from operations. The Company competes based on such factors as name recognition and reputation, service, product features, innovation, and price. In addition, the Company operates in a highly competitive environment that is influenced by a number of general business and economic factors, such as general economic vitality, employment levels, credit availability, interest rates and commodity costs. Declines in general economic activity may negatively impact new construction, and renovation projects, which in turn may impact demand for the Company’s product and service offerings. The impact of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results from operations, and cash flows. Tight credit conditions could impair the ability of the Company and other industry parties to effectively access capital markets, which could negatively impact the Company’s capital position and demand for the Company’s products and services. Tight credit conditions could impair the Company’s ability to effectively access capital. This could impair the Company’s ability to refinance debt as it becomes due or to obtain additional credit, if needed. The inability to effectively access capital markets could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results from operations, and cash flows. In addition, the impact of the tight credit conditions has and could continue to impair the ability of real estate developers, property owners, and contractors to effectively access capital markets or obtain reasonable costs of capital on borrowed funds, resulting in a decline in construction and renovation projects. The inability of these constituents to borrow money to fund construction and renovation projects reduces the demand for the Company’s products and services and could adversely affect the Company’s results from operations and cash flow. The lack of credit availability and the general economic conditions over the last two years have negatively impacted the Company’s results from operations by reducing customer demand. Acuity Brands is heavily dependent on the strength of construction activity. Sales of lighting equipment depend significantly on the level of activity in new construction and renovations. Demand for non-residential construction and renovation is driven by many factors, including but not limited to economic activity, employment levels, credit availability, interest rates, accessibility to financing, and trends in vacancy rates and rent values. Demand for new residential construction and remodeling is also affected by interest rates and credit availability, as well as the supply of existing homes, price appreciation, and household formation rates. Significant declines in either non-residential or residential construction activity could significantly impact the Company’s results from operations and cash flow. Since early fiscal 2009, both the Company and the industry 9 Table of Contents experienced declines in sales volumes resulting from weakness in both the non-residential and residential construction markets due to the weak economic environment. Acuity Brands’ results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or availability of raw materials, components, and purchased finished goods. The Company utilizes a variety of raw materials and components in its production process including steel, aluminum, lamps, LEDs, ballasts, power supplies, petroleum-based by-products, natural gas, and copper. Future increases in the costs of these items could adversely affect operating margins, as there can be no assurance that future raw material and component price increases will be successfully passed through to customers. The Company generally sources these goods from a number of suppliers and, therefore, is reasonably insulated from risks affecting any one supplier. However, there are a limited number of suppliers for certain components and certain purchased finished goods, and disruptions in supply for those items could negatively impact the Company’s short-term performance. Profitability and volume could be negatively impacted by limitations inherent within the supply chain of certain of these component parts, including competitive, governmental, legal, natural disasters, and other events that could impact both supply and price. Since mid-fiscal 2010, the industry has experienced shortages in certain electronic components used in the manufacturing of ballasts and power supplies, resulting in delays in sourcing these vital components. A persistent lack of availability of these components could adversely impact shipments in future periods. Variability in cost and availability could adversely affect the Company’s results from operations and cash flows. Acuity Brand’s results may be adversely affected by the Company’s inability to maintain pricing. Aggressive pricing actions by competitors may affect the Company’s ability to achieve desired unit volume growth and profitability levels under its current pricing strategies. The Company may also decide to lower pricing to match the competition. Additionally, the Company may not be able to increase prices to cover rising costs of components and raw materials. Even if the Company were able to increase prices to cover costs, competitive pricing pressures may not allow the Company to pass on any more than the cost increases which could negatively impact gross margin percentages. Alternatively, if component and raw material costs were to decline, the marketplace may not allow the Company to hold prices at their current levels, which could negatively impact both net sales and gross margins. Acuity Brands may experience difficulties in the consolidation of manufacturing facilities which could impact the shipments to customers, product quality, and the ability to realize the expected savings from streamlining actions. During fiscal 2009, the Company continued its ongoing programs to streamline operations, including the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and the reduction of overhead costs. Upon completion of these actions, the Company realized annualized benefits of more than $50.0. During fiscal 2010, the Company announced plans to relocate certain production and down-size two facilities, and, upon completion, the Company expects to realize $10.0 in annualized benefits. The Company will gain from such activity only to the extent that it can effectively leverage assets, personnel, and operating processes in the transition of production between manufacturing facilities. Uncertainty is inherent within the facility consolidation process, and unforeseen circumstances could offset the anticipated benefits, disrupt service to customers, and impact product quality. Acuity Brands is subject to risks related to operations outside the United States. The Company has substantial activities outside of the United States, including sourcing of products, materials, and components. The Company’s operations, as well as those of key vendors, are therefore subject to regulatory, economic, political, military, and other events in countries where these operations are located, particularly Mexico. In addition to the risks that are common to both the Company’s domestic and international operations, the Company faces risks specifically related to its foreign operations, including but not limited to: foreign currency fluctuations; unstable political, social, regulatory, economic, financial, and market conditions; potential for privatization and other confiscatory actions; trade restrictions and disruption; criminal activities; and unforeseen increases in tariffs and taxes. The Company continues to monitor conditions affecting its international locations. Some of these risks 10 Table of Contents could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results from operations, and cash flows in the future. The Company is exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting from non-U.S. dollar denominated transactions, particularly in our international operations. Potential decreases in income could result from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar. Acuity Brands is subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and the Company may be exposed to substantial environmental, health, and safety costs and liabilities. The Company is subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental, health, and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment, and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, and the remediation of environmental contamination and working conditions for the Company’s employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund, the Clean Water Act, and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions world-wide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct, on those persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. The Company may also be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to energy, climate change, or similar concerns. These laws may impact the manufacture and distribution of the Company’s products and place restrictions on the products the Company can sell in certain geographical locations. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations, and past activities. The Company has established reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these reserves may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, the Company’s potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not previously been established, and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital and other ongoing expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at the Company’s properties could adversely affect its ability to sell a property, receive full value for a property, or use a property as collateral for a loan. Acuity Brands may develop unexpected legal contingencies or matters that exceed insurance coverage. The Company is subject to various claims, including legal claims arising in the normal course of business. The Company is insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims with a self-insurance retention of $0.5 per occurrence, including product liability claims, and is fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, commercial disputes, and patent infringement. The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the level of insurance coverage held by the Company and/or the amounts reserved for such claims. In the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolutions of such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results from operations, financial position, or cash flows. The Company’s insurance coverage is negotiated on an annual basis, and insurance policies in the future may have coverage exclusions that could cause claim-related costs to rise. 11 Table of Contents Acuity Brands may pursue future growth through strategic acquisitions and alliances, which may not yield anticipated benefits. The Company has and may continue to seek to improve its business through strategic acquisitions and alliances. The Company will gain from such activity only to the extent that it can effectively leverage the assets, including personnel, technology and operating processes, of the acquired businesses and alliances. Uncertainty is inherent within the acquisition and alliance process, and unforeseen circumstances arising from recent and future acquisitions or alliances could offset their anticipated benefits. In addition, unanticipated events, negative revisions to valuation assumptions and estimates, and/or difficulties in attaining synergies, among other factors, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to recover initial and subsequent investments, particularly those related to acquired goodwill and intangible assets. Any of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results from operations, and cash flows. Technological developments and increased competition could affect the Company’s operating profit margins and sales volume. The Company competes in an industry where technology and innovation play major roles in the competitive landscape. The Company is highly engaged in the investigation, development, and implementation of new technologies. Securing key partnerships and alliances as well as employee talent, including having access to technologies developed by others, and the obtaining of appropriate patents play a significant role in protecting the Company’s intellectual property and development activities. Additionally, the continual development of new technologies (e.g., LED, OLED, lamp/ballast systems, lighting controls systems, etc.) by existing and new source suppliers — including non-traditional competitors with significant resources — looking for either direct market access or partnership with competing large manufacturers, coupled with significant associated exclusivity and/or patent activity, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to sustain operating profit margin and desirable levels of sales volume. Consolidation remains a key trend. Certain broader and more global electrical manufacturers may be able to obtain a competitive advantage over the Company by offering broader and more integrated electrical solutions utilizing electrical, lighting, and building automation products. Acuity Brands may be unable to sustain significant customer and/or channel partner relationships. Relationships forged with customers, including The Home Depot which historically has represented slightly greater than 10% of the Company’s total net sales, are directly impacted by the Company’s ability to deliver high-quality products and services. The Company does not have a written contract obligating The Home Depot to purchase its products. The loss of or substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by The Home Depot would harm the Company’s sales, profitability and cash flow. The Company also has relationships with channel partners such as electrical distributors and independent sale agencies. While the Company has experienced positive, and in most cases long-term, relationships with these channel partners, the loss of some number of these channel partners or a substantial decrease in the volume of purchases from a major channel partner or a group of channel partners could, at least in the short-term, adversely affect the Company’s sales, profitability, and cash flows. If Acuity Brands’ products are improperly designed, manufactured, packaged, or labeled, the Company may need to recall those items and could be the target of product liability claims if consumers are injured. The Company may need to recall products if they are improperly designed, manufactured, packaged, or labeled and does not maintain insurance for such events. The Company’s quality control procedures relating to the raw materials, including packaging, that it receives from third-party suppliers, as well as the Company’s quality control procedures relating to its products after those products are designed, manufactured, and packaged, may not be sufficient. The Company has previously initiated product recalls as a result of potentially faulty components, assembly, installation, and packaging of its products, and widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. The Company may also be liable if the use of any of its products causes injury, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against the Company. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to the Company’s reputation, and a loss of 12 Table of Contents consumer confidence in its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial results, and cash flows. Acuity Brands could be adversely affected by disruptions of its operations. The breakdown of equipment or other events, including labor disputes, pandemics or catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions in the Company’s or one or more of its suppliers’ plants could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results and cash flows. Approximately 50% of the Company’s sales of finished products are manufactured in Mexico, a country that is currently experiencing heightened civil unrest, which could also disrupt supply of products from these facilities. Further, because many of the Company’s customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on planned deliveries from the Company’s plants, those customers that have to reschedule their own production or delay opening a facility due to the Company’s missed deliveries could pursue financial claims against the Company. The Company may incur costs to correct any of these problems, in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, the Company’s reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed and result in a loss of business. While the Company has developed business continuity plans to support responses to such events or disruptions and maintains insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage and business interruptions, these policies may not cover all losses. The Company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, loss of customers, and substantial losses in operational capacity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial results and cash flows. Failure of a Company operating or information system or a compromise of security with respect to an operating or information system or portable electronic device could adversely affect the Company’s results from operations and financial condition or the effectiveness of internal controls over operations and financial reporting. The Company is highly dependent on automated systems to record and process Company and customer transactions and certain other components of the Company’s financial statements. The Company could experience a failure of one or more of these systems or could fail to complete all necessary data reconciliation or other conversion controls when implementing a new software system. The Company could also experience a compromise of its security due to technical system flaws, clerical, data input or record-keeping errors, or tampering or manipulation of those systems by employees or unauthorized third parties. Information security risks also exist with respect to the use of portable electronic devices, such as laptops and smartphones, which are particularly vulnerable to loss and theft. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of any of these systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics, computer viruses, and electrical/telecommunications outages). All of these risks are also applicable where the Company relies on outside vendors to provide services to it. Operating system failures, ineffective system implementation or disruptions, or the compromise of security with respect to operating systems or portable electronic devices could subject the Company to liability claims, harm the Company’s reputation, interrupt the Company’s operations, and adversely affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, business, results from operations, financial condition or cash flow. The inability to attract and retain talented employees and/or a loss of key employees could adversely affect the effectiveness of the Company’s operations. The Company relies upon the knowledge and experience of employees involved in functions throughout the organization that require technical expertise and knowledge of the industry. A loss of such employees could adversely impact the Company’s ability to execute key operational functions and could adversely affect the Company’s operations. The risks associated with the inability to effectively execute its strategies could adversely affect the Company’s results from operations and financial condition. Various uncertainties and risks are associated with the implementation of a number of aspects of the Company’s global business strategy, including but not limited to new product development, effective integration of acquisitions, and efforts to streamline operations. Those uncertainties and risks include, but are not limited to: diversion of management’s attention; difficulty in retaining or attracting employees; negative impact on relationships with distributors and customers; obsolescence of current products and slow new product development; 13 Table of Contents additional streamlining efforts; and unforeseen difficulties in the implementation of the management operating structure. Problems with strategy execution could offset anticipated benefits, disrupt service to customers, and impact product quality, and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results from operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Acuity Brands Common Stock The market price and trading volume of the Company’s shares may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common shares could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including for reasons unrelated to the Company’s specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general economic and industry conditions. For example, to the extent that other large companies within the Company’s industry experience declines in their share price, the Company’s share price may decline as well. In addition, when the market price of a company’s shares drops significantly, shareholders could institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against the Company could cause the Company to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of the Company’s management and other resources. Risks Related to the Spin-off of Zep Inc. Failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction could result in substantial liability. Acuity Brands has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to the effect that, among other things, the Spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to Acuity Brands, Zep, and Acuity Brands’ stockholders for United States federal income tax purposes under section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”). Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Acuity Brands will not be able to rely on the ruling. Moreover, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution of shares satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the IRC. Rather, the private letter ruling is based upon representations by Acuity Brands that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. Acuity Brands has received an opinion of King & Spalding LLP, counsel to Acuity Brands, to the effect that, with respect to the requirements referred to above on which the IRS will not rule, those requirements will be satisfied. The opinion is based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Acuity Brands and Zep which, if untrue or incomplete in any material respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. If the Spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, a substantial corporate tax would be payable by Acuity Brands, measured by the difference between (1) the aggregate fair market value of the shares of Zep common stock on the date of the Spin-off and (2) Acuity Brands’ adjusted tax basis in the shares of Zep common stock on the date of the Spin-off. The corporate level tax would be payable by Acuity Brands. However, Zep has agreed, under certain circumstances, to indemnify Acuity Brands for this tax liability. In addition, under the applicable Treasury regulations, each member of Acuity Brands’ consolidated group at the time of the Spin-off (including Zep) is severally liable for such tax liability. Furthermore, if the Spin-off does not qualify as tax-free, each Acuity Brands stockholder generally would be taxed as if he or she had received a cash distribution equal to the fair market value of the shares of Zep common stock on the date of the Spin-off. Even if the Spin-off otherwise qualifies as tax-free, Acuity Brands nevertheless could incur a substantial corporate tax liability under section 355(e) of the IRC, if 50 percent or more of the stock of Acuity Brands or Zep were to be acquired as part of a “plan (or a series of related transactions)” that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of the stock of Acuity Brands or of Zep stock that occurred within two years before or after the Spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan, although Acuity Brands may be able to rebut that presumption. If such an acquisition of the stock of Acuity Brands or of Zep stock triggers the application of section 355(e), Acuity Brands would recognize taxable gain as described above, but the Spin-off would generally 14 Table of Contents remain tax-free to the Acuity Brands stockholders. If acquisitions of Zep’s stock trigger the application of section 355(e), Zep would be obligated to indemnify Acuity Brands for the resulting corporate-level tax liability. 