Item 1A. Risk Factors" section; •challenges in maintaining an effective internal control environment with operations in multiple international locations, including language differences, varying levels of U.S. GAAP expertise in international locations and multiple financial information systems; and •labor disruptions, civil unrest, significant political instability, wars or other armed conflict or acts of terrorism. These risks could adversely affect our operations, business strategies and operating results. Government policies and regulations, particularly those affecting the agricultural sector and related industries, could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Agricultural commodity production and trade flows are significantly affected by government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products and energy policies (including biofuels mandates), can influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops versus other uses of agricultural resources, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded and the volume and types of imports and exports. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. Increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs, such as fertilizers, have become the subject of significant discussion by governmental bodies and the public throughout the world in recent years. In some countries, this has led to the imposition of policies such as price controls, tariffs and export restrictions on agricultural commodities. Additionally, efforts to change the regulation of financial markets, including the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, may subject large users of derivatives, such as Bunge, to extensive new oversight and regulation. Such initiatives could impose significant additional costs on us, including operating and compliance costs, and could materially affect the availability, as well as the cost and terms, of certain transactions. Future governmental policies, regulations or actions affecting our industries may adversely affect the supply of, demand for and prices of our products, restrict our ability to do business and cause our financial results to suffer. Increases in commodity prices can increase the scrutiny to which we are subject under antitrust laws. We are subject to antitrust and competition laws in various countries throughout the world. We cannot predict how these laws or their interpretation, administration and enforcement will change over time, particularly in periods of significant price increases in our industries. Changes or developments in antitrust laws globally, or in their interpretation, administration or enforcement, may limit our existing or future operations and growth. Increases in food and crop nutrient prices have in the past resulted in increased scrutiny of our industries under antitrust and competition laws in Europe, Brazil and other jurisdictions and increase the risk that these laws could be interpreted, administered or enforced in a 18 Table of Contents manner that could affect our operations or impose liability on us in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures. We have been an active acquirer of other companies, and we have joint ventures with several partners. Part of our strategy involves acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures designed to expand and enhance our business. Our ability to benefit from acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify suitable prospects, access funding sources on acceptable terms, negotiate favorable transaction terms and successfully consummate and integrate any businesses we acquire. In addition, we may decide, from time to time, to divest certain of our assets or businesses. Our ability to successfully complete a divestiture will depend on, among other things, our ability to identify buyers that are prepared to acquire such assets or businesses on acceptable terms and to adjust and optimize our retained businesses following the divestiture. Our acquisition or divestiture activities may involve unanticipated delays, costs and other problems. If we encounter unexpected problems with one of our acquisitions, alliances or divestitures, our senior management may be required to divert attention away from other aspects of our businesses to address these problems. Additionally, we may fail to consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures, after incurring expenses and devoting substantial resources, including management time, to such transactions. Acquisitions also pose the risk that we may be exposed to successor liability relating to actions by an acquired company and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations and reduce the benefits of the acquisition. Additionally, acquisitions involve other risks, such as differing levels of management and internal control effectiveness at the acquired entities, systems integration risks, the risk of impairment charges relating to goodwill and intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions, the risk of significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition, the need to fund increased capital expenditures and working capital requirements, our ability to retain and motivate employees of acquired entities and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. Divestitures may also expose us to potential liabilities or claims for indemnification, as we may be required to retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters, including environmental or litigation matters, associated with the assets or businesses that we sell. The magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction, and its cost to us could ultimately exceed the proceeds we receive for the divested assets or businesses. Divestitures also have other inherent risks, including possible delays in closing transactions (including potential difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals), the risk of lower-than-expected sales proceeds for the divested businesses and unexpected costs or other difficulties associated with the separation of the businesses to be sold from our information technology and other systems and management processes, including the loss of key personnel. Additionally, expected cost savings or other anticipated efficiencies or benefits from divestitures may also be difficult to achieve or maximize. Additionally, we have several joint ventures and investments where we may have limited control over governance and operations. As a result, we face certain operating, financial and other risks relating to these investments, including risks related to the financial strength of our joint venture partners or their willingness to provide adequate funding for the joint venture, having differing objectives from our partners, the inability to implement some actions with respect to the joint venture's activities that we may believe are favorable if the joint venture partner does not agree and the risk that 19 Table of Contents we will be unable to resolve disputes with the joint venture partner. As a result, these investments may contribute significantly less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to food and feed industry risks. We are subject to food and feed industry risks which include, but are not limited to, spoilage, contamination, tampering or other adulteration of products, product recalls, government regulation, including regulations regarding food and feed safety, nutritional standards and genetically modified organisms (GMOs), shifting customer and consumer preferences and concerns, and potential product liability claims. These matters could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, certain of our products are used as, or as ingredients in, livestock and poultry feed, and as such, we are subject to demand risks relating to the outbreak of disease associated with livestock and poultry, including avian or swine influenza. A severe or prolonged decline in demand for our products as a result of the outbreak of disease could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We face intense competition in each of our businesses. We face significant competition in each of our businesses and we have numerous competitors, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than we have. As many of the products we sell are global commodities, the markets for our products are highly price competitive and in many cases sensitive to product substitution. In addition, to compete effectively, we must continuously focus on improving efficiency in our production and distribution operations, as well as developing and maintaining appropriate market share, and customer relationships. We also compete for talent in our industries, particularly commercial personnel. Competition could cause us to lose market share and talented employees, exit certain lines of business, increase marketing or other expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. We are subject to environmental, health and safety regulation in numerous jurisdictions. We may be subject to substantial costs, liabilities and other adverse effects on our business relating to these matters. Our operations are regulated by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the countries where we operate, including those governing the labeling, use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. These laws and regulations require us to implement procedures for the handling of hazardous materials and for operating in potentially hazardous conditions, and they impose liability on us for the cleanup of environmental contamination. In addition to liabilities arising out of our current and future operations for which we have ongoing processes to manage compliance with regulatory obligations, we may be subject to liabilities for past operations at current facilities and in some cases to liabilities for past operations at facilities that we no longer own or operate. We may also be subject to liabilities for operations of acquired companies. We may incur material costs or liabilities to comply with environmental, health and safety requirements. In addition, our industrial activities can result in serious accidents that could result in personal injuries, facility shutdowns, reputational harm to our business and/or the expenditure of significant amounts to remediate safety issues or repair damaged facilities. In addition, continued government and public emphasis in countries where we operate on environmental issues, including climate change, conservation and natural resource management, have resulted in and could result in new or more stringent forms of regulatory oversight of our industries, including increased environmental controls, land-use restrictions affecting us or our suppliers and other conditions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, certain aspects of Bunge's business and the larger food production chain generate carbon emissions. The imposition of regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions, 20 Table of Contents which may include limitations on greenhouse gas emissions, other restrictions on industrial operations, taxes or fees on greenhouse gas emissions and other measures, could affect land-use decisions, the cost of agricultural production and the cost and means of processing and transport of our products, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. We are exposed to credit and counterparty risk relating to our customers in the ordinary course of business. In particular, we advance capital and provide other financing arrangements to farmers in Brazil and, as a result, our business and financial results may be adversely affected if these farmers are unable to repay the capital advanced to them. We have various credit terms with customers, and our customers have varying degrees of creditworthiness, which exposes us to the risk of non-payment or other default under our contracts and other arrangements with them. In the event that we experience significant defaults on their payment obligations to us, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In Brazil, where there are limited third-party financing sources available to farmers for their annual production of crops, we provide financing services to farmers from whom we purchase soybeans and other agricultural commodities through prepaid commodity purchase contracts and advances, which are generally intended to be short-term in nature and are typically secured by the farmer's crop and a mortgage on the farmer's land and other assets to provide a means of repayment in the potential event of crop failure or shortfall. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, we had approximately $955 million and $885 million in outstanding prepaid commodity purchase contracts and advances to farmers. We are exposed to the risk that the underlying crop will be insufficient to satisfy a farmer's obligation under the financing arrangements as a result of weather and crop growing conditions, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. In addition, any collateral held by us as part of these financing transactions may not be sufficient to fully protect us from loss. We are a capital intensive business and depend on cash provided by our operations as well as access to external financing to operate and expand our business. We require significant amounts of capital to operate our business and fund capital expenditures. In addition, our working capital needs are directly affected by the prices of agricultural commodities, with increases in commodity prices generally causing increases in our borrowing levels. We are also required to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, upgrade and expand our extensive network of storage facilities, processing plants, refineries, mills, logistics assets and other facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances and safety and environmental standards. Furthermore, the expansion of our business and pursuit of acquisitions or other business opportunities may require us to have access to significant amounts of capital. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or raise sufficient external financing on attractive terms to fund these activities, including as a result of a tightening in the global credit markets, we may be forced to limit our operations and growth plans, which may adversely impact our competitiveness and, therefore, our results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $4,300 million unused and available borrowing capacity under various committed short and long-term credit facilities and $4,644 million in total indebtedness. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged than we are and require us to dedicate more cash on a relative basis to servicing our debt and less to developing our business. This may limit our ability to run our business and use our resources in the manner in which we would like. Furthermore, difficult conditions in global credit or financial markets generally could adversely impact our ability to refinance maturing debt or the cost or other terms of such refinancing, as well as adversely affect the financial position of the lenders with whom we do business, which may reduce our ability to obtain financing for our operations. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources." 21 Table of Contents Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. While our debt agreements do not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of our debt, a reduction in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and, depending on their severity, could impede our ability to obtain credit facilities or access the capital markets in the future on favorable terms. We may also be required to post collateral or provide third-party credit support under certain agreements as a result of such downgrades. A significant increase in our borrowing costs could impair our ability to compete effectively in our business relative to competitors with higher credit ratings. Our risk management strategies may not be effective. Our business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodity prices, transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We engage in hedging transactions to manage these risks. However, our exposures may not always be fully hedged and our hedging strategies may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. In addition, our risk management strategies may seek to position our overall portfolio relative to expected market movements. While we have implemented a broad range of control procedures and policies to mitigate potential losses, they may not in all cases successfully protect us from losses that have the potential to impair our financial position. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." We may not be able to achieve the efficiencies, savings and other benefits anticipated from our cost reduction, margin improvement and other business optimization initiatives. We are continually implementing programs throughout the company to reduce costs, increase efficiencies and enhance our business. Initiatives currently in process or implemented in the past four years include the outsourcing of certain administrative activities in several regions and the rationalization of manufacturing operations, including the closing of facilities and the implementation of a restructuring and consolidation of our operations in Brazil. Unexpected delays, increased costs, adverse effects on our internal control environment, inability to retain and motivate employees or other challenges arising from these initiatives could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated savings or other intended benefits of these activities. The loss of or a disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or other operations and systems could adversely affect our business. We are engaged in manufacturing and distribution activities on a global scale, and our business depends on our ability to execute and monitor, on a daily basis, a significant number of transactions across numerous markets or geographies. As a result, we are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, fires, explosions, strikes and other labor or industrial disputes and disruptions in logistics or information systems, as well as natural disasters, pandemics, acts of terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. While we insure ourselves against many of these types of risks in accordance with industry standards, our level of insurance may not cover all losses. The loss of, or damage to, any of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our information technology systems, processes and sites may suffer a significant breach or disruption that may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, provide critical data and services for internal and external users, including procurement and inventory management, transaction processing, financial, commercial and operational data, human resources management, legal and tax compliance information and other information and processes necessary to operate and manage our business. Our information technology and infrastructure may 22 Table of Contents experience attacks by hackers, breaches or other failures or disruptions that could compromise our systems and the information stored there. While we have implemented security measures and disaster recovery plans designed to protect the security and continuity of our networks and critical systems, these measures may not adequately prevent adverse events such as breaches or failures from occurring or mitigate their severity if they do occur. If our information technology systems are breached, damaged or fail to function properly due to any number of causes, such as security breaches or cyber based attacks, systems implementation difficulties, catastrophic events or power outages, and our security, contingency or disaster recovery plans do not effectively mitigate these occurrences on a timely basis, we may experience a material disruption in our ability to manage our business operations. We may also be subject to legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, potential regulatory penalties and damage to our reputation. These impacts may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our competitive position. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us and our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies or corporations incorporated in other jurisdictions, including the United States. A majority of our directors and some of our officers are non-residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the U.S. judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act, or failure to act, involves fraud or dishonesty. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions provide for: •a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; •directors to be removed without cause at any special general meeting only upon the affirmative vote of at least 66% of all votes attaching to all shares then in issue entitling the holder to attend and vote on the resolution; •restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; 23 Table of Contents •our Board of Directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and •an affirmative vote of at least 66% of all votes attaching to all shares then in issue entitling the holder to attend and vote on the resolution for some business combination transactions, which have not been approved by our Board of Directors. These provisions, as well as any additional anti-takeover measures our Board of Directors could adopt in the future, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party's offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Adverse U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. investors owning shares of a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, directly or indirectly. We will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if 50% or more of our assets, including goodwill (based on an annual quarterly average), are passive assets, or 75% or more of our annual gross income is derived from passive assets. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the then-market value of our common shares, which is subject to change. Based on certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets and relying on certain exceptions in the applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, we do not believe that we are currently a PFIC. Such a characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors in our common shares. In particular, absent an election described below, a U.S. investor would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at ordinary income tax rates, plus a possible interest charge, in respect of gain derived from a disposition of our common shares, as well as certain distributions by us. In addition, a step-up in the tax basis of our common shares would not be available upon the death of an individual shareholder, and the preferential U.S. federal income tax rates generally applicable to dividends on our common shares held by certain U.S. investors would not apply. Since PFIC status is determined on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets and the nature of our activities from time to time, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. investors may desire to make an election to treat us as a "qualified electing fund" with respect to shares owned (a QEF election), in which case U.S. investors will be required to take into account a pro rata share of our earnings and net capital gain for each year, regardless of whether we make any distributions. As an alternative to the QEF election, a U.S. investor may be able to make an election to "mark-to-market" our common shares each taxable year and recognize ordinary income pursuant to such election based upon increases in the value of our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents 