Item 1a. Risk Factors This filing contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. A variety of risks and uncertainties could cause Acuity Brands’ actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 42. The risks and uncertainties include risks related to the spin-off of the specialty products business as well as risks related to the Company’s continuing operations both prior to and following the spin-off. These risks include, without limitation: Risks Related to the Spin-off of Acuity Specialty Products Group, Inc. Failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction could result in substantial liability. Acuity Brands has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to Acuity Brands, Zep Inc., and Acuity Brands stockholders for United States federal income tax purposes under section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the Internal Revenue Service, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Acuity Brands will not be able to rely on the ruling. Moreover, the Internal Revenue Service will not rule on whether a distribution of shares satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. Rather, the private letter ruling is based upon representations by Acuity Brands that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. Acuity Brands has received an opinion of King & Spalding LLP, counsel to Acuity Brands, to the effect that, with respect to the requirements referred to above on which the Internal Revenue Service will not rule, those requirements will be satisfied. The opinion is based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Acuity Brands and Zep Inc. which, if untrue or incomplete in any material respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and the Internal Revenue Service or the courts may not agree with the opinion. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, a substantial corporate tax would be payable by Acuity Brands, measured by the difference between (1) the aggregate fair market value of the shares of Zep common stock on the date of the spin-off and (2) Acuity Brands’ adjusted tax basis in the shares of Zep common stock on the date of the spin-off. The corporate level tax would be payable by Acuity Brands. However, Zep has agreed under certain circumstances to indemnify Acuity Brands for this tax liability. In addition, under the applicable Treasury regulations, each member of Acuity Brands’ consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including Zep) is severally liable for such tax liability. Furthermore, if the spin-off does not qualify as tax-free, each Acuity Brands stockholder generally would be taxed as if he or she had received a cash distribution equal to the fair market value of the shares of Zep common stock on the date of the spin-off. Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as tax-free, Acuity Brands nevertheless could incur a substantial corporate tax liability under section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, if 50 percent or more of the stock of Acuity Brands or Zep were to be acquired as part of a “plan (or a series of related transactions)” that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of the stock of Acuity Brands or of Zep stock that occur within two years before or after the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan, although Acuity Brands may be able to rebut that presumption. If such an acquisition of the stock of Acuity Brands or of Zep stock triggers the application of section 355(e), Acuity Brands would recognize taxable gain as described above, but the spin-off would generally remain tax-free to the Acuity Brands stockholders. If acquisitions of Zep’s stock trigger the application of section 355(e), Zep would be obligated to indemnify Acuity Brands for the resulting corporate-level tax liability. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The combined post-spin-off value of Acuity Brands and Zep shares may not equal or exceed the pre-spin-off value of Acuity Brands shares. After the spin-off, Acuity Brands common stock will continue to be listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Zep will also list its common stock on the New York Stock Exchange. There can be no assurances that the combined trading prices of Acuity Brands common stock and Zep common stock after the spin-off, as adjusted for any changes in the combined capitalization of both companies, will be equal to or greater than the trading price of Acuity Brands common stock prior to the spin-off. Until the market has fully evaluated the business of Acuity Brands without Zep’s business, the price at which Acuity Brands common stock trades may fluctuate significantly. Similarly, until the market has fully evaluated Zep’s business, the price at which Zep common stock trades may fluctuate significantly, and shareholders may not realize the full benefit of the spin-off. Risks Related to the Business of Acuity Brands, Inc. General business and economic conditions may affect the Company’s results from operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment that is affected by a number of factors. Demand for its product offerings is sensitive to both volatility within the non-residential construction and other industrial markets, and to the effect of consolidation of the Company’s competitors. Changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates could impair the Company’s ability to effectively access capital markets. The Company’s primary competitors have the ability to drive both pricing and product innovation within the marketplace. These competitive pressures may affect the Company’s ability to achieve desired volume growth and profitability levels under its current pricing models, which could adversely impact results from operations. Acuity Brands is subject to risks related to operations outside the United States. The Company has substantial operations outside the United States. Net sales outside the United States represented approximately 13% of the Company’s total net sales for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2007. Furthermore, as of August 31, 2007, approximately 57% of ABL’s and 11% of ASP’s products were manufactured outside the United States. The Company’s operations as well as those of key vendors are therefore subject to regulatory, economic, political, military, and other events in countries where these operations are located. In addition to the risks that are common to both the Company’s U.S. and non-U.S. operations, the Company faces risks related to its foreign operations including but not limited to foreign currency fluctuations; unstable political, economic, financial, and market conditions; trade restrictions; and increases in tariffs and taxes. Some of these risks have affected the business of Acuity Brands in the past and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in the future. Acuity Brands is subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and the Company may be exposed to substantial environmental, health, and safety costs and liabilities. Acuity Brands is subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental, health, and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment, and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, and the remediation of environmental contamination and working conditions for the Company’s employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund, the Clean Water Act, and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions world-wide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct, on those persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These laws may impact the manufacture and distribution of the Company’s products and place restrictions on the products the Company can sell in certain geographical locations. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations, and past activities. The Company has established reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these reserves may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, the Company’s potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not previously been established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital and other ongoing expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at the Company’s properties could adversely affect its ability to sell property, receive full value for a property, or use a property as collateral for a loan. Acuity Brands may develop unexpected legal contingencies or lose insurance coverage. Acuity Brands is subject to various claims, including legal claims arising in the normal course of business. The Company is insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims with a self-insurance retention of $0.5 million per occurrence, including toxic tort and other product liability claims, and is fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including employment practices, environmental, product recall, commercial disputes, patent infringement, and errors and omissions. Acuity Brands establishes reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved for such claims. In the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolutions of such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, Acuity Brands cannot guarantee that it will be able to maintain current levels of insurance coverage for all matters that are currently insured for costs that the Company considers to be reasonable. The Company’s insurance coverage is negotiated on an annual basis, and insurance policies in the future may have coverage exclusions that could cause claim related costs to rise. Acuity Brands’ results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or availability of raw materials. The Company utilizes a variety of raw materials and components in its production process including petroleum based chemicals, steel, copper, ballasts, and aluminum. For example, Acuity Brands Lighting purchases approximately 116,000 tons of steel and aluminum on an annual basis depending on various factors including ABL’s product mix. The Company estimates that approximately 8% of the raw materials purchased are petroleum-based. Failure to effectively manage future increases in the costs of these items could adversely affect the ability to achieve operating margins acceptable to shareholders. There can be no assurance that future raw material price increases will be successfully passed through to customers. The Company sources these goods from a number of suppliers and is, therefore, reasonably insulated from risks affecting any one supplier. Profitability and volume could be negatively impacted by limitations inherent within the supply chain of certain of these materials, including competitive, governmental, legal, natural disasters, and other events that could impact both supply and price. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Acuity Brands may pursue future growth through strategic acquisitions which may not yield anticipated benefits. The Company has previously endeavored, and may again endeavor to improve the business through strategic acquisitions. The Company will gain from such activity only to the extent that it can effectively leverage the assets, including personnel, and operating processes of the acquired businesses. Uncertainty is inherent within the acquisition process, and unforeseen circumstances arising from future acquisitions could offset their anticipated benefits. Any of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, including its ability to generate positive operating cash flows. Technological developments by competitors could affect the Company’s operating profit margins and sales volume. Acuity Brands Lighting is highly engaged in the investigation, development, and implementation of new technologies. Securing key partnerships and alliances, including having access to technologies generated by others and the obtaining of appropriate patents, play a significant role in protecting Acuity Brands’ intellectual property and development activities. However, the continual development of new technologies (e.g., LEDs and lamp ballast systems) by existing and new source suppliers looking for either direct market access or partnership with competing large manufacturers, coupled with significant associated exclusivity and/or patent activity, could adversely affect the Company’s, and specifically ABL’s, ability to sustain operating profit margin and desirable levels of volume. Acuity Brands may be unable to sustain significant customer relationships. Relationships forged with customers, including The Home Depot, which represent approximately 15% and 13% of the total net sales from ABL and ASP, respectively, are directly impacted by the Company’s ability to deliver high quality products and service. Acuity Brands does not have a written contract obligating The Home Depot to purchase its products. The loss of or substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by The Home Depot would harm the Company’s sales and profitability. Innovation in design and technology achieved by competitors could have a negative impact on customer acceptance of the Company’s products. Additionally, the Company sources many materials and components used in its production processes from third-party suppliers. The Company has recently incurred recall costs associated with faulty items purchased from third-party suppliers. While the Company anticipates reimbursement for the majority of the recall costs, the inability to effectively manage customer relationships during the recall process could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to maintain desired levels of profitability and volume. If Acuity Brands products are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or become adulterated, it may need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured. Acuity Brands may need to recall some of its products if they are improperly manufactured, packaged, or labeled or if they become adulterated. The Company’s quality control procedures relating to the raw materials, including packaging, that it receives from third-party suppliers as well as the Company’s quality control procedures relating to its products after those products are designed, manufactured or formulated and packaged may not be sufficient. Acuity Brands has previously initiated product recalls as a result of potentially faulty components, assembly, installation, and packaging of its products, and widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. Acuity Brands may also be liable if the use of any of its products causes injury, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against the Company. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to the Company’s reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial results, and cash flow. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Acuity Brands could be adversely affected by disruptions of its operations. Breakdown of equipment or other events, including catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions in the Company’s plants could have a material adverse effect on its financial results. Further, because many of the Company’s customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on planned deliveries from the Company’s plants, those customers that have to reschedule their own production or delay opening a facility due to the Company’s missed deliveries could pursue financial claims against Acuity Brands. The Company may incur costs to correct any of these problems, in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, the Company’s reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed, resulting in a loss of business. While the Company maintains insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage, business interruptions and product liability, these policies may not cover all losses and the Company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, loss of customers, and suffer substantial losses in operational capacity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial results and cash flow. The Company’s lighting equipment business is heavily dependent on the strength of construction activity. Sales activity within the lighting equipment industry depends significantly on the level of activity in new construction, additions, and renovations. Demand for non-residential construction is driven by many factors, including but not limited to the availability of credit, fluctuation of interest rates, accessibility to public financing, and trends in vacancy rates and rent values. Demand for new residential construction and remodeling is also affected by the fluctuation of interest rates and the availability of credit as well as the supply of existing homes, price appreciation, and household formation rates. Significant decreases in either residential or non-residential construction activity could significantly impact the Company’s results of operations. Acuity Brands is heavily dependent on the strength of construction activity, and this dependency will increase with the spin-off of its specialty products business. Of Acuity Brands’ fiscal 2007 net sales of approximately $2.5 billion, the lighting equipment segment generated approximately 78% of total net sales while the specialty products segment provided the remaining 22%. Sales activity within the lighting equipment industry depends significantly on the level of activity in new construction, additions and renovations. Demand for non-residential construction is driven by many factors, including but not limited to general economic activity, the availability of credit, fluctuation of interest rates, and trends in vacancy rates and rent values. Demand for new residential construction and remodeling is also affected by the fluctuation of interest rates and the availability of credit as well as the supply of existing homes, price appreciation and household formation rates. Acuity Brands’ exposure to the above listed trends affecting its lighting business has, to a degree, been buffered by the operations of its specialty products business. While some seasonality is inherent to the specialty products business, ASP’s performance remains generally unaffected by trends isolated to construction markets. Acuity Brands announced plans in July 2007 to separate the lighting and specialty chemical businesses by spinning off Acuity Specialty Products into an independent public company. During the past five years, ASP’s annual contribution to its parent’s operating cash flows, net of investing activity, has averaged approximately $37 million. The specialty products business has been responsible for approximately 22-25% of the consolidated parent company’s revenues over that period. Additionally, the specialty products business has contributed to the profitability of the consolidated entity; the specialty products group’s operating profit and operating profit margins during the previous five years have averaged approximately $41 million and 7.7%, respectively, excluding any allocation of corporate costs. In fiscal 2008, Acuity Brands, with Acuity Brands Lighting as its sole operating subsidiary, will proceed without the benefit from operations previously conducted by ASP. Therefore, Acuity Brands’ exposure to activity within the non-residential and residential construction markets will no longer be mitigated, to any extent, by the operations of its chemical business. Significant decreases non-residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, retail construction activity could significantly impact the Company’s future results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to Ownership of Acuity Brands Common Stock The market price and trading volume of the Company’s shares may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common shares could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including for reasons unrelated to the Company’s specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general economic and industry conditions. For example, to the extent that other large companies within Acuity Brands’ industries experience declines in their share price, the Company’s share price may decline as well. In addition, when the market price of a company’s shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of the Company’s management and other resources. 