Item 1A Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as described below. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, as well as any related benefits of owning our securities could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us The amount of cash that we will be able to distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our natural gas midstream and coal and natural resource management businesses. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, we must pay our general partner’s expenses and set aside any cash reserve amounts before making a distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash that we will be able to distribute each quarter to our partners principally depends upon the amount of cash we can generate from our natural gas midstream and coal and natural resource management businesses. The amount of cash we will generate will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas transported in our gathering systems; 17 Table of Contents • the amount of throughput in our processing plants; • the price of and demand for natural gas; • the price of and demand for NGLs; • our timely receipt of payments from our natural gas and NGL customers; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices, which impact the effectiveness of our hedging positions, if any; • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our natural gas midstream services; • the amount of coal our lessees are able to produce; • the price at which our lessees are able to sell the coal; • our lessees’ timely receipt of payment from their customers; and • our timely receipt of payments from our lessees. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner in its sole discretion for the proper conduct of our business. Because of these factors, we may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at their current level or at all. The amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record profits. Our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to our unitholders, or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities, in addition to impairing our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2013, our total outstanding long-term indebtedness was approximately $1.7 billion. While we are permitted by our partnership agreement to incur debt to pay distributions to our unitholders, our payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Furthermore, our leverage, various limitations in the agreements governing our revolving credit facility (“Revolver”), other restrictions governing our indebtedness and the indentures governing our senior notes (“Senior Notes”) may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: • make it more difficult for us to make distributions to our unitholders; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general partnership purposes or other purposes; • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our debt is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest; • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments of our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general partnership requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity capital or sell our assets. We may then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell our assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our operating flexibility. The indentures governing our outstanding Senior Notes and credit agreement governing our Revolver and any agreements governing our other future indebtedness contain or may contain various covenants limiting our ability and the ability of our specified subsidiaries to, among other things: • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our equity interests or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; • make investments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred securities; • create or incur certain liens; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • create non-guarantor subsidiaries. These restrictions could limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. Our Revolver contains covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. We may be unable to meet those ratios and conditions. Any future breach of these covenants and our failure to meet any of those ratios and conditions could result in a default under the terms of our Revolver, which could result in the acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. Additionally, our Revolver is secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations thereunder, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. The lenders may also sell substantially all of our assets under such foreclosure or other realization upon those encumbrances without prior approval of our unitholders, which would adversely affect the price of our common units. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Long-Term Debt,” for more information about the Revolver. Our general partner may cause us to issue additional common units or other equity securities without the approval of our unitholders, which would dilute their ownership interests and may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase our cash distributions. Our general partner may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with the common units, without unitholder approval. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; and • the market price of our common units may decline. Our unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Under Delaware law, our unitholders could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by our unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to the partnership agreement or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business. Additionally, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the liabilities of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions. Furthermore, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. 19 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement restricts the rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our unitholders’ voting rights are restricted by the provision in our partnership agreement generally providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of the general partner, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. As a result of these provisions, the price at which our common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement limits the liability of the directors and officers of our general partner. The directors and officers of our general partner owe fiduciary duties to our unitholders. Provisions of our partnership agreement, however, contain language limiting the liability of the officers and directors of our general partner to our unitholders for actions or omissions taken in good faith which do not involve gross negligence or willful misconduct. In addition, our partnership agreement grants broad rights of indemnification to our general partner’s directors, officers, employees and affiliates. Our general partner has a call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time more than 80% of our outstanding common units are owned by our general partner and its affiliates, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign in whole or in part to any of its affiliates or us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (i) the average of the daily closing prices of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (ii) the highest price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. The tax consequences to a unitholder of the exercise of this call right are the same as a sale by that unitholder of his or her units in the market. Our common units may experience price volatility. Our common unit price has experienced volatility in the past, and volatility in the price of our common units may occur in the future as a result of any of the risks described in our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For instance, our common units may experience price volatility as a result of changes in investor sentiment with respect to our competitors, our business partners and our industry in general, which may be influenced by volatility in prices for natural gas, NGLs and coal. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies but affect the market price of their securities. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common units. Risks Related to Our Natural Gas Eastern Midstream and Midcontinent Midstream Businesses The success of our natural gas midstream business depends upon our ability to contract for new sources of natural gas supply. In order to maintain or increase system throughput levels on our gathering systems and asset utilization rates at our processing plants, we must contract for new natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to our gathering systems include the level of drilling activity creating new gas supply near our gathering systems, our success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and our ability to expand and increase the capacity of our systems. We may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity and production generally decrease as oil and natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells and the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. Our natural gas midstream assets, including our gathering systems and processing plants, are connected to natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Our cash flows associated with these systems will decline unless we are able to secure new supplies of natural gas by connecting additional production to these systems. A material decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operation, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, would result in a decline in the volume of natural gas we handle, which would reduce our revenues and operating income. In addition, our future growth will depend, 20 Table of Contents in part, upon whether we can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves dedicated to our gathering systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas on our systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. We typically do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our gathering systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information, as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our gathering systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas gathered on our gathering systems in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas on our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A reduction in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The NGL products we produce, including ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane and natural gasoline, have a variety of applications, including as heating fuels, petrochemical feedstocks and refining blend stocks. A reduction in demand for NGL products, whether because of general economic conditions, new government regulations, reduced demand by consumers for products made with NGL products, increased competition from petroleum-based products due to pricing differences, mild winter weather or other reasons, could result in a decline in the volume of NGL products we handle or reduce the fees we charge for our services. Any reduced demand for our NGL products could adversely affect demand for the services we provide as well as NGL prices, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The profitability of certain activities in our natural gas midstream business is dependent upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond our control and have been volatile. A portion of our Midcontinent Midstream natural gas business is subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices. During 2013, our Midcontinent Midstream segment generated a portion of its revenues from two types of contractual arrangements under which our gross margin is exposed to increases and decreases in the price of natural gas and NGLs — gas purchase/keep-whole and percentage-of-proceeds arrangements. See Item 1, “Business — Contracts — Natural Gas Midstream Segment.” This risk is mitigated by our increasing volumes under fixed fee contracts. Virtually all of the system throughput volumes in our Crescent System and Hamlin System are processed under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements. The system throughput volumes in our Panhandle System are processed primarily under either percentage-of-proceeds or gas purchase/keep-whole arrangements. Under both types of arrangements, we provide gathering and processing services for natural gas received. Under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally sell the NGLs produced from the processing operations and the remaining residue gas at market prices and remit to the producers an agreed upon percentage of the proceeds based on either an index price or the price actually received for the gas and NGLs. Under these arrangements, revenues and gross margins decline when natural gas prices and NGL prices decrease. Accordingly, a decrease in the price of natural gas or NGLs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Under gas purchase/keep-whole arrangements, we generally buy natural gas from producers based upon an index price and then sell the NGLs and the remaining residue gas to third parties at market prices. Because the extraction of the NGLs from the natural gas during processing reduces the volume and economic value of the natural gas available for sale, profitability is dependent on the value of the NGLs and related residue gas being higher than the value of unprocessed natural gas. Under these arrangements, revenues and gross margins decrease when the price of natural gas increases relative to the price of NGLs. Accordingly, a change in the relationship between the price of natural gas and the price of NGLs could have a material adverse effect on our Midcontinent Midstream business, results of operations or financial condition. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. The markets and prices for residue gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: • the state of the global economy, including financial and credit markets on worldwide demand for oil and domestic demand for natural gas and NGLs; • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; 21 Table of Contents • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Future acquisitions and expansions may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities and increasing the risks of being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing operations. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. Readily available access to debt and equity capital markets and credit availability have been and continue to be critical factors in our ability to grow. While global financial markets and economic conditions have been disrupted in the past, these conditions have improved more recently. However, if we become unable to finance our future growth expansions in a cost effective manner due to tightened capital markets we may be required to seek alternative financing strategies or revise or cancel our plans. If we consummate future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. In the event we complete acquisitions, we may encounter difficulties integrating these acquisitions with our existing businesses without a loss of employees or customers, a loss of revenues, an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. In addition, we may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, competitive advantages, cost savings or other benefits expected from these acquisitions. Moreover, we may incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses, or costs associated with the businesses or assets acquired for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity is inadequate. Future acquisitions might not generate increases in our cash distributions to our unitholders, and because of the capital used to complete such acquisitions, or the debt incurred, our results of operations may change significantly. Expanding our natural gas midstream business by constructing new gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities subjects us to construction risks. The construction of a new gathering system or pipeline, the expansion of an existing pipeline through the addition of new pipe or compression and the construction of new processing facilities involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we do undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, or at all, or at the anticipated cost. A variety of factors outside our control, such as weather, difficulties in obtaining permits or other regulatory approvals, obtaining or renewing rights-of-way, as well as performance by third party contractors, may result in increased costs or delays in construction. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For example, the construction of gathering facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our estimates. Generally, we may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. In addition, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. As a result, there is the risk that new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas throughput or contracted capacity reservation to achieve our expected investment return, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we do not continue to expand our pipeline systems, our future growth could be limited. During the past several years, we have constructed several new pipelines, and are currently involved in constructing several pipeline system expansions. Our results of operations and ability to grow and to increase distributable cash flow per unit will depend, in part, on our ability to construct pipeline expansions that are accretive to our distributable cash flow. We may be unable to construct pipeline expansions that are accretive to distributable cash flow for any of the following reasons, among others: • we are unable to identify pipeline construction opportunities with favorable projected financial returns; or • we are unable to secure sufficient natural gas transportation commitments from potential customers due to competition from other pipeline construction projects or for other reasons. Further, even if we construct a pipeline expansion that we believe will be accretive, the pipeline may adversely affect our results of operations or results from those projected prior to the commencement of construction. We are exposed to the credit risk of our natural gas midstream customers, and nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers would reduce our cash flows. We are subject to risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our natural gas midstream customers. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our natural gas midstream revenues. In 2013, 51% of our total consolidated revenues and 51% of our December 31, 2013 consolidated accounts receivable resulted from seven of our natural gas midstream customers. Within the Eastern Midstream segment for 2013, 55% of the segment’s revenues and 54% of the December 31, 2013 accounts receivable for the segment resulted from three customers. Within the Midcontinent Midstream segment for 2013, 57% of the segment’s revenues and 54% of the December 31, 2013 accounts receivable for the segment resulted from four customers. Any nonpayment or nonperformance by our natural gas midstream segment customers would reduce our cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Any reduction in overall interconnecting third-party pipeline capacity or our capacity allocations in interconnecting third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes processed, which could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. We are dependent upon connections to third-party pipelines to receive and deliver residue gas and NGLs. Any reduction of capacities of these interconnecting pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in reduced volumes gathered and processed in our natural gas midstream facilities. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of residue gas and NGLs on interconnecting pipelines, our allocations in these pipelines could be reduced. Any reduction in volumes gathered and processed in our facilities could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. Commodity derivative transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our natural gas and NGLs, we continually monitor commodity prices and when it is opportunistic, we may choose to enter into derivative contracts intended to hedge a portion of our expected exposure. Historically, our hedges are limited in duration, usually for periods of two years or less. These hedging transactions may limit our potential gains if commodity prices were to move in an otherwise favorable direction. We will continue to have direct commodity price risk on the portion of expected production that is not hedged. In trying to maintain an appropriate balance, we may end up hedging too much or too little, depending upon how natural gas or NGL prices fluctuate in the future. In addition, derivative transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts natural gas or NGL prices. In addition, derivative instruments involve basis risk. Basis risk in a derivative contract occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of production may have more or less variability than the regional price index used for the sale of that production. Accordingly, our Consolidated Financial Statements have reflected volatility due to derivatives, even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point. In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in a derivative transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to commodity prices. Our Consolidated Financial Statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge transaction. Our natural gas midstream business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our natural gas midstream operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compression, treating, processing and transportation of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. Our natural gas midstream operations are concentrated in Texas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our natural gas midstream business. We do not have property insurance on all of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our natural gas midstream business. 23 Table of Contents We own and operate an 11-mile interstate natural gas pipeline that, pursuant to the NGA, is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC. The FERC has granted us waivers of various requirements otherwise applicable to conventional FERC-jurisdictional pipelines, including the obligation to file a tariff governing rates, terms and conditions of open access transportation service. The FERC has determined that we will have to comply with the filing requirements if our natural gas midstream segment ever desires to apply for blanket transportation authority to transport third-party gas on the 11-mile pipeline. The FERC may revoke these waivers at any time. Our natural gas gathering facilities generally are exempt from the FERC’s jurisdiction under the NGA, but the FERC regulation nevertheless could change and significantly affect our gathering business and the market for our services. For a more detailed discussion of how regulatory measures affect our natural gas gathering business, see Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation and Environmental Matters — Natural Gas Midstream Segment.” Failure to comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations can result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal remedies. Our natural gas midstream business is subject to extensive environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of our gathering systems, plants and other facilities are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions and discharge of wastes from our facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or the prior owners of our natural gas midstream business or locations to which we or they have sent wastes for disposal. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we dispose of substances, requiring pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our natural gas midstream business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our natural gas midstream operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and the use by the prior owners of our natural gas midstream business of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation and Environmental Matters — Natural Gas Midstream Segment.” The natural gas midstream segment may record impairment losses on its long-lived assets. The natural gas midstream segments have completed a number of acquisitions in recent years. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our natural gas midstream segments’ material acquisitions. In conjunction with our accounting for these acquisitions, it was necessary for us to estimate the values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which involved the use of various assumptions. The most significant assumptions, and the ones requiring the most judgment, involve the estimated fair values of property, plant and equipment, and the resulting amount of goodwill, if any. Unforeseen changes in operations, the business environment or market conditions could substantially alter management’s assumptions and could result in lower estimates of values of acquired assets or of future cash flows. This could result in impairment charges being recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Operations Risks Related to Our Coal and Natural Resource Management Business If our lessees do not manage their operations well or experience financial difficulties, their production volumes and our coal royalties revenues could decrease. We depend on our lessees to effectively manage their operations on our properties. Our lessees make their own business decisions with respect to their operations, including decisions relating to: • the method of mining; 24 Table of Contents • credit review of their customers; • marketing of the coal mined; • coal transportation arrangements; • negotiations with unions; • employee hiring and firing; • employee wages, benefits and other compensation; • permitting; • surety bonding; and • mine closure and reclamation. If our lessees do not manage their operations well, or if they experience financial difficulties, their production could be reduced, which would result in lower coal royalties revenues to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The coal mining operations of our lessees are subject to numerous operational risks that could result in lower coal royalties revenues. Our coal royalties revenues are largely dependent on the level of production from our coal reserves achieved by our lessees. The level of our lessees’ production is subject to operating conditions or events that may increase our lessees’ cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines for varying lengths of time and that are beyond their or our control, including: • the inability to acquire necessary permits; • changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • changes in governmental regulation of the coal industry; • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • adverse claims to title or existing defects of title; • interruptions due to power outages; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; • labor-related interruptions; • employee injuries or fatalities; and • fires and explosions. Any interruptions to the production of coal from our reserves could reduce our coal royalties revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our coal royalties revenues are based upon sales of coal by our lessees to their customers. If our lessees do not receive payments for delivered coal on a timely basis from their customers, their cash flow would be adversely affected, which could cause our cash flow to be adversely affected and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We could be negatively impacted by any decline in the market demand for coal. The domestic demand for, and price of, our coal primarily depend on coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric utility industry. Consumption by the domestic electric utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel sources, such as natural gas, nuclear, hydroelectric power and other renewable energy sources. In addition, during the last several years, the U.S. coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. Increased competition by coal producers or producers of alternate fuels could decrease the demand for coal, our pricing of coal or length of term of coal sales contracts, adversely impacting demand for the coal that our lessees produce and thereby reducing our coal royalties revenues. Indirect competition from gas-fired plants that are less expensive to construct and easier to permit has the most potential to displace a significant amount of coal-fired generation in the near term, particularly for older, less efficient coal-powered generators. The demand for U.S. coal exports is dependent upon a number of factors, including the overall demand for electricity in foreign markets, currency exchange rates, ocean freight rates, the demand for foreign-produced steel both in foreign markets and in the U.S. market (which is dependent in part on tariff rates on steel), general economic conditions in foreign countries, technological developments and environmental and other governmental regulations and any other pressures placed on companies that are connected 25 Table of Contents to the emission of greenhouse gases. Historically, global demand for electricity and steel production has decreased during periods of economic downturn. If there is a worsening of foreign and U.S. economic and financial market conditions, and additional tightening of global credit markets, foreign demand for U.S. coal could decline, causing competition among coal producers in the United States to intensify, potentially resulting in additional downward pressure on domestic coal prices and thereby reducing our coal royalties revenues. In addition, Federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the ultimate consumers of the coal our lessees produce. These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures. As a result of these current and proposed laws, regulations and trends, electricity generators may elect to switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions, possibly further reducing demand for the coal that our lessees produce and thereby reducing our coal royalties revenues. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation and Environmental Matters — Coal and Natural Resource Management Segment — Air Emissions.” A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could reduce our coal royalties revenues and the value of our coal reserves. During 2013, weaker international and domestic economies, low natural gas prices and mild weather have impacted coal markets and market weakness is expected to continue into 2104. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could have a material adverse effect on our lessees’ operations (including mine closures) and on the quantities of coal that may be economically produced from our properties. In addition, because a majority of our coal royalties are derived from coal mined on our properties under leases containing royalty rates based on the higher of a fixed base price or a percentage of the gross sales price, our coal royalties revenues could be reduced by such a decline. Such a decline could also reduce our coal services revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Additionally, volatility in coal prices could make it difficult to estimate with precision the value of our coal reserves. The future state of the global economy, including financial and credit markets on coal production levels and prices is uncertain. Depending on the longevity and ultimate severity of this downturn, demand for coal may continue to decline, which could adversely affect production and pricing for coal mined by our lessees, and, consequently, adversely affect the royalty income received by us. We depend on a limited number of primary operators for a significant portion of our coal royalties revenues and the loss of or reduction in production from any of our major lessees would reduce our coal royalties revenues. We depend on a limited number of primary operators for a significant portion of our coal royalties revenues. In the year ended December 31, 2013, five primary operators, each with multiple leases, accounted for 76% of our coal royalties revenues and 6% of our total consolidated revenues. If any of these operators enters bankruptcy or decides to cease operations or significantly reduces its production, our coal royalties revenues would be reduced. A failure on the part of our lessees to make coal royalty payments could give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the property or obtain liquidation damages and/or enforce payment obligations under the lease. If we repossessed any of our properties, we would seek to find a replacement lessee. We may not be able to find a replacement lessee and, if we find a replacement lessee, we may not be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the outgoing lessee could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings that could further delay the execution of a new lease or the assignment of the existing lease to another operator. If we enter into a new lease, the replacement operator might not achieve the same levels of production or sell coal at the same price as the lessee it replaced. Our coal reserves decline as our lessees mine our coal and our inability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable may have a material adverse effect on the future profitability of our coal business. Because our reserves decline as our lessees mine our coal, we have historically expanded our coal operations by adding and developing coal reserves in existing, adjacent and neighboring properties and through acquisitions of additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable to replace the reserves we produce. If we are unable to negotiate purchase contracts to replace or increase our coal reserves on acceptable terms, our coal royalties revenues will decline as our coal reserves are eventually depleted and we could, therefore, experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As of December 31, 2013, we owned or controlled approximately 847 million tons of proven or probable coal reserves located in Kentucky, Virginia, West Virginia, Illinois and New Mexico. We anticipate that these reserves will take over 34 years to deplete, based upon 2013 production volumes. Our current business strategy does not contemplate any additional growth in our coal reserve holdings through acquisitions or investments in our existing market areas. See Item 1, “Business — Business Strategy.” During 2014, our coal reserves located in the San Juan Basin will deplete and the associated royalty revenue will cease. Our lessees could satisfy obligations to their customers with coal from properties other than ours, depriving us of the ability to receive amounts in excess of the minimum coal royalties payments. 26 Table of Contents We do not control our lessees’ business operations. Our lessees’ customer supply contracts do not generally require our lessees to satisfy their obligations to their customers with coal mined from our reserves. Several factors may influence a lessee’s decision to supply its customers with coal mined from properties we do not own or lease, including the royalty rates under the lessee’s lease with us, mining conditions, transportation costs and availability and customer coal quality specifications. If a lessee satisfies its obligations to its customers with coal from properties we do not own or lease, production under our lease will decrease, and we will receive lower coal royalties revenues. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce the production of coal mined from our properties. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for the customers of our lessees. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make coal produced by some or all of our lessees less competitive than coal produced from other sources. On the other hand, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition for our lessees from coal producers in other parts of the country or increased imports from offshore producers. Our lessees depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to deliver coal to their customers. Disruption of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, mechanical failures and other events could temporarily impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers. Our lessees’ transportation providers may face difficulties in the future and impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers, thereby resulting in decreased coal royalties revenues to us. Our lessees’ workforces could become increasingly unionized in the future, which could adversely affect their productivity and thereby reduce our coal royalties revenues. One of our lessees has one mine operated by unionized employees. This mine was our second largest mine on the basis of coal production for the year ended December 31, 2013. All of our lessees could become increasingly unionized in the future. If some or all of our lessees’ non-unionized operations were to become unionized, it could adversely affect their productivity due to a potential increase in the risk of work stoppages. In addition, our lessees’ operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies, particularly if union workers were to orchestrate boycotts against our lessees’ operations. Any further unionization of our lessees’ employees could adversely affect the stability of production from our coal reserves and reduce our coal royalties revenues. Our coal reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may be inaccurate, which could materially adversely affect the quantities and value of our coal reserves. Our estimates of our coal reserves may vary substantially from the actual amounts of coal our lessees may be able to economically recover. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: • geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data; • the amount of ultimately recoverable coal in the ground; • the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and • future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes and development and reclamation costs. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our coal reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the coal reserve data provided by us. Federal and state laws restricting the emissions of greenhouse gases in many jurisdictions could adversely affect our coal royalties revenues. Global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. Several scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases”, or GHG’s, including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. Legislative attention in the United States is being paid to reducing GHG emissions. Many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the development of regional GHG cap-and-trade programs. There are many regulatory approaches currently in effect or being considered to address GHGs, including possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation that may impose a carbon emissions tax or establish a cap-and-trade program and regulation by the EPA. EPA rules require extensive regulation of GHG emissions from mobile sources and stationary sources, including imposing permitting requirements and obligations to use best available control technology for the reduction of GHG 27 Table of Contents emissions whenever certain stationary sources, such as power plants, are built or significantly modified. Moreover, the EPA has updated pollution standards for fossil fuel power plants and petroleum refineries. The permitting of new coal-fired power plants has also been contested by state regulators and environmental organizations for concerns related to greenhouse gas emissions from the new plants. Other state regulatory authorities have also rejected the construction of new coal-fired power plants based on the uncertainty surrounding the potential costs associated with greenhouse gas emissions from these plants under future laws limiting the emissions of carbon dioxide. In addition, several permits issued to new coal-fired power plants without limits on greenhouse gas emissions have been appealed to EPA’s Environmental Appeals Board. The regulation of emissions of GHGs associated with the use of coal may lead our lessees’ customers to curtail their operations, switch to other fuels or other alternatives which may, individually and collectively, reduce demand for our lessees’ coal and thereby decrease revenues. See Item 1, “Business — Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters — Coal and Natural Resource Management Segment — Air Emissions.” As a result of current laws and proposed laws, regulations and trends, electric generators may switch from coal to other fuels that generate less greenhouse gas emissions, possibly reducing demand for coal. Delays in obtaining, inability to obtain, or revocation of our lessees’ mining permits and approvals could have an adverse effect on our coal royalties revenues. Mine operators, including our lessees, must obtain numerous permits and approvals that impose strict conditions and obligations relating to various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult, and may possibly preclude the continuance of ongoing mining operations or the development of future mining operations. To dispose of mining overburden generated from surface mining activities, our lessees often need to obtain government approvals, including CWA Section 404 permits to construct valley fills, stream impoundments, and sediment control ponds. Recently, these Section 404 permits and the Section 404 permitting standard have been the target of increased scrutiny by environmental groups, legislators, the White House, and the EPA which has made it more difficult for miners to obtain, and in some cases maintain, Section 404 permits. In one case, the EPA retroactively rescinded a permit that had been issued. The U.S. Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation is in the process of rewriting the “stream buffer zone rule” which currently requires surface mining operators to minimize soil disturbances and dispose of excess mining spoil away from water sources. If the EPA promulgates a more restrictive stream buffer zone rule, any such additional requirements could impact coal mining operations, particularly in Appalachia, including, for example, by reducing locations where coal mining operations can be conducted or by further restricting common spoil disposal practices. Regulations which dramatically increase the costs of compliance or prohibit our lessees from obtaining new permits could reduce coal production and cash flows, and could ultimately have an adverse effect on our royalty revenues. Our lessees’ mining operations are subject to extensive and costly laws and regulations, which could increase operating costs and limit our lessees’ ability to produce coal, which could have an adverse effect on our coal royalties revenues. Our lessees are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting coal mining operations, including laws and regulations pertaining to employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Our lessees are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be significant and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new laws or regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may be adopted in the future that could materially affect our lessees’ mining operations, either through direct impacts such as new requirements impacting our lessees’ existing mining operations, or indirect impacts such as new laws and regulations that discourage or limit coal consumers’ use of coal. Any of these direct or indirect impacts could have an adverse effect on our coal royalties revenues. See Item 1, “Business — Government Regulation and Environmental Matters — Coal and Natural Resource Management Segment.” Because of extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, violations during mining operations are not unusual in the industry and, notwithstanding compliance efforts, we do not believe violations by our lessees can be eliminated completely. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and, to a lesser extent, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. Our lessees may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from their operations. If our lessees are required to pay these costs and liabilities and if their financial viability is affected by doing so, then their mining operations and, as a result, our coal royalties revenues and our ability to make distributions, could be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Our lessees operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Our lessees operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own as well as at sites that we previously owned, or may acquire. We may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. Tax Risks to Our Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or we become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to common unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based on our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amount will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, or other forms of taxation. Imposition of a similar tax on us in the jurisdictions in which we operate or in other jurisdictions to which we may expand could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Both the tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships and an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, and an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such recent legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception we rely on for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability which results from that income. 29 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on disposition of common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount they realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell their units at a price greater than their tax basis in those common units, even if the price they receive is equal to their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation deductions. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if unitholders sell their units they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investments in our common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as “IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raise issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Allocations and/or distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective tax rate applicable to non-U.S. persons, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their shares of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisors before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between existing unitholders and unitholders who purchase units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based on the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units may be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan of their units are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. 30 Table of Contents We will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange within a twelve-month period of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one calendar year and could result in significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two short tax periods included in the year in which the termination occurs. Unitholders may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. taxes and return filing requirements. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including, state and local taxes, non-U.S. taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file tax returns and pay taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of our common unitholders to file all required U.S. federal, state, local, and non-U.S. tax returns. Risks Related to Our Proposed Merger with Regency Pending the completion of the transaction, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. Under the terms of our merger agreement with Regency Energy Partners LP (“Regency”), we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the transaction, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies without first obtaining consent from Regency, including our ability in certain cases to enter into contracts, incur capital expenditures or grow our business. The merger agreement also restricts our ability to solicit, initiate or encourage alternative acquisition proposals with any third party and may deter a potential acquirer from proposing an alternative transaction or may limit our ability to pursue any such proposal. Such limitations could negatively affect our business and operations prior to the completion of the proposed transaction. Furthermore, the process of planning to integrate two businesses and organizations for the post-merger period can divert management attention and resources and could ultimately have an adverse effect on us. In connection with the pending merger, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have business relationships may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the transaction, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our common units, regardless of whether the transaction is completed. We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other employees in light of the merger. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on our employees may have an adverse effect on us and the combined organization. This uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the merger is completed. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as employees may feel uncertain about their future roles with the combined organization. In addition, we may have to provide additional compensation in order to retain employees. If our employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to become employees of the combined organization, the combined organization’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could be reduced. Also, if we fail to complete the merger, it may be difficult and expensive to recruit and hire replacements for such employees. We will incur substantial transaction-related costs in connection with the merger. We expect to incur a number of non-recurring merger-related costs associated with completing the merger, combining the operations of the two companies, and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs will be substantial. Non-recurring transaction costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, filing fees and printing costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our and Regency’s businesses. There can be no assurance that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time. Thus, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, the long term or at all. 31 Table of Contents Failure to successfully combine the businesses of PVR and Regency in the expected time frame may adversely affect the future results of the combined organization, and, consequently, the value of the Regency common units that PVR unitholders receive as the merger consideration. The success of the proposed merger will depend, in part, on the ability of Regency to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining the businesses of Regency and PVR. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses must be successfully combined. If the combined organization is not able to achieve these objectives, or is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. Failure to complete the merger, or significant delays in completing the merger, could negatively affect the trading price of our common units and our future business and financial results. Completion of the merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the merger by our unitholders or by governmental agencies is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. If the merger is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the merger, it could negatively affect the trading price of our common units and our future business and financial results, and we will be subject to several risks, including the following: • liability for damages to Regency under the terms and conditions of the merger agreement; • negative reactions from the financial markets, including declines in the price of our common units due to the fact that current prices may reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed; • having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger, including a termination fee of $134.5 million; and • the attention of our management will have been diverted to the merger rather than our own operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. Purported class action complaints have been filed against PVR, Regency and PVR’s board of directors challenging the merger, and an unfavorable judgment or ruling in these lawsuits could prevent or delay the consummation of the proposed merger and result in substantial costs. Eight purported class action lawsuits were initially filed challenging the merger. Each lawsuit names as defendants PVR, Regency, their respective general partners, individual members of PVR’s board of directors (the “Board”) and RVP GP LLC, a Regency subsidiary. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the proposed merger. If these lawsuits are not dismissed or otherwise resolved, they could prevent and/or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to us, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. Two lawsuits have been voluntarily dismissed and the currently pending lawsuits challenging the merger are: • Naiditch v. PVR Partners, L.P., et al., No. 9015-VCL (Del. — Ct. of Chancery) • Monatt v. PVR Partners, LP, et al., No. 2013-10606 (PA — Common Pleas, Del. County) • Srour v. PVR Partners, L.P., et al., No. 2013-11015 (PA — Common Pleas, Del. County) • Bushansky v. PVR Partners, L.P., et al., No. 2:13-cv-06829-HB (E.D. Pa.) • Hinnau v. PVR Partners, L.P., et al., No. 2:13-cv-07496-HB (E.D. Pa.) On January 28, 2014, PVR, Regency, their respective general partners, all the Board members of PVR and RVP GP LLC entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with plaintiffs in the Monatt, Srour, Bushansky, Naiditch and Hinnau lawsuits (the “Settled Lawsuits”) detailing an agreement in principle to a settlement of the Settled Lawsuits, which will be memorialized in a separate settlement agreement. The settlement is subject to customary conditions, including consummation of the merger, completion of certain confirmatory discovery, class certification and final approval by the Court of Common Pleas for Delaware County, Pennsylvania. If the Court approves the settlement, the Settled Lawsuits will be dismissed with prejudice and all defendants will be released from any and all claims relating to, among other things, the merger and any disclosures made in connection therewith. In exchange for that release, PVR and Regency have provided additional disclosures requested by the plaintiffs in the Settled Lawsuits related to, among other things the merger and any disclosures made in connection therewith. The settlement will not 32 Table of Contents affect any provisions of the merger agreement or the form or amount of consideration to be received by PVR unitholders in the Merger. Additional lawsuits may be filed in connection with the proposed merger. There can be no assurance that any of the defendants will prevail in the pending litigation or in any future litigation. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim may adversely affect our or the combined organization’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 