Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our financial condition and business operations. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Relating to Our Business and Industries Adverse weather conditions and other unpredictable factors may adversely affect the availability and price of agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products, as well as our operations. Adverse weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and consequently in our operating results by causing crop failures or significantly reduced harvests, which can affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business, reduce demand for our fertilizer products and negatively affect the creditworthiness of agricultural producers who do business with us. Our assets and operations may also be affected by adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes or severe storms, which may result in extensive property 15 Table of Contents damage, extended business interruption, personal injuries and other loss and damage to us. Our operations also rely on dependable and efficient transportation services. A disruption in transportation services, as a result of weather conditions or otherwise, may also significantly adversely impact our operations. In addition to weather conditions, the availability and price of agricultural commodities are also subject to other unpredictable factors, including farmer planting decisions, government farm programs and policies, demand from the biofuels industry, price volatility as a result of increased participation by non-commercial market participants in commodity markets and the occurrence of plant disease, including Asian soybean rust, which has in past years adversely affected soybean crops in Brazil and the United States. These factors may cause volatility in the agricultural commodity industry and, consequently, in our operating results. We are subject to global and regional economic downturns and risks relating to turmoil in global financial markets. The level of demand for our products is affected by global and regional demographic and macroeconomic conditions, including population growth rates and changes in standards of living. A significant downturn in global economic growth, or recessionary conditions in major geographic regions, may lead to reduced demand for agricultural commodities which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, weak global economic conditions and turmoil in global financial markets, including severe tightening of credit markets, recently have adversely affected, and may in the future continue to adversely affect, the financial viability of some of our customers, suppliers and other counterparties, which in turn may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for more information. We are vulnerable to industry cyclicality and increases in raw material prices. In the oilseed processing industry, the lead time required to build an oilseed processing plant can make it difficult to time capacity additions with market demand for processed oilseed products such as meal and oil. When additional processing capacity becomes operational, a temporary imbalance between the supply and demand for oilseed meal and oil might exist, which, until the supply/demand balance is restored, negatively impacts oilseed processing margins. This is also the case for the fertilizer industry, as availability of raw materials and production capacity for fertilizer products may not always be aligned with market demand. During times of reduced market demand, we may suspend or reduce production at some of our facilities. The extent to which we efficiently manage available capacity at our facilities will also affect our profitability. Our food products and fertilizer divisions may also be adversely affected by increases in the prices of agricultural commodities and fertilizer raw materials, respectively, that are caused by market fluctuations beyond our control. Increases in fertilizer prices due to higher raw material costs have in the past and could in the future adversely affect demand for our fertilizer products. Additionally, as a result of competitive conditions in our food products and fertilizer businesses, we may not be able to recoup higher raw material costs through increases in sales prices for our products, which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally and in emerging markets. We are a global business with substantial assets located outside of the United States. Our operations in South America and Europe are a fundamental part of our business. In addition, a key part of our strategy involves expanding our business in several emerging market regions, including 16 Table of Contents Eastern Europe and Asia. Volatile international economic, political and market conditions may have a negative impact on our operating results and our ability to achieve our business strategies. Due to the international nature of our business, we are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations as a significant portion of our net sales and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Brazilian real, the Argentine peso and the euro and certain Eastern European currencies, affect our revenues and expenses that are denominated in local currencies, affect farm economics in those regions and may have a negative impact on the value of our assets located outside of the United States. We are also exposed to other risks of international operations, including: •trade barriers on agricultural commodities and commodity products; •inflation and adverse economic conditions resulting from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, such as imposition of wage and price controls and higher interest rates; •changes in laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate, such as the risk of future adverse tax regulation in the United States relating to our status as a Bermuda company; •difficulties in enforcing agreements or judgments and collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; •exchange controls or other currency restrictions; •increased governmental ownership, including through expropriation, or regulation of the economy, including restrictions on foreign ownership; and •civil unrest or significant political instability. The occurrence of any of these events in countries or regions where we currently operate or where we plan to expand or develop our business could adversely affect our business strategies and operating results. Government policies and regulations, particularly those affecting the agricultural sector and related industries, could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Agricultural commodity production and trade flows are significantly affected by government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products and energy policies, can influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops versus other uses of agricultural resources, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded and the volume and types of imports and exports. In addition, international trade disputes can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions. For example, recent significant increases in prices for, among other things, food, fuel and crop inputs such as fertilizers, have been the subject of significant discussion by governmental bodies and the public throughout the world and, in some countries, have led to the imposition of price controls and export restrictions on agricultural commodities. Future governmental policies, regulations or actions affecting our industries may adversely affect the supply of, demand for and prices of our products, restrict our ability to do business in existing and target markets and cause our financial results to suffer. 17 Table of Contents The expansion of our business through acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances poses risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these transactions. We have been an active acquirer of other companies, and we have strategic alliances and joint ventures with several partners. Part of our strategy involves acquisitions, alliances and joint ventures designed to expand and enhance our business. Our ability to benefit from acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisition or alliance prospects, access capital markets or other funding sources at an acceptable cost of capital, negotiate favorable transaction terms and successfully consummate and integrate any businesses we acquire. Integrating businesses we acquire into our operational framework may involve unanticipated delays, costs and other operational problems. If we encounter unexpected problems with one of our acquisitions or alliances, our senior management may be required to divert attention away from other aspects of our businesses to address these problems. Additionally, we may fail to consummate proposed acquisitions, after incurring expenses and devoting substantial resources, including management time, to such transactions. Acquisitions also pose the risk that we may be exposed to successor liability relating to actions by an acquired company and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations and reduce the benefits of the acquisition. We are subject to food and feed industry risks. We are subject to food and feed industry risks which include, but are not limited to, spoilage, contamination, tampering or other adulteration of products, product recalls, government regulation, shifting customer and consumer preferences and concerns, including concerns regarding trans-fatty acids and, as further discussed below, genetically modified organisms, and potential product liability claims. These matters could adversely affect our business and operating results. The use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in food and animal feed has been met with varying acceptance globally. In some regions where we sell our products, most significantly the European Union and Brazil, government regulations limit sales or require labeling of GMO products. We may inadvertently deliver products that contain GMOs to customers that request GMO-free products. As a result, we could lose customers, incur liability and damage our reputation. In addition, in certain countries we have been or may be subject to claims or other actions relating to the alleged infringement of intellectual property rights associated with our handling of genetically modified agricultural commodities, which could result in increased costs for our business. In addition, certain of our products are used as, or as ingredients in, livestock and poultry feed, and as such, we are subject to demand risks associated with the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry, including, but not limited to, avian influenza. The outbreak of disease could adversely affect demand for our products used in livestock and poultry feed, which could adversely affect our operating results. We face intense competition in each of our businesses. We face significant competition in each of our businesses and we have numerous competitors, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than we have. As many of the products we sell are global commodities, the markets for our products are highly price competitive and in many cases sensitive to product substitution. In addition, to compete effectively, we must continuously focus on improving efficiency in our production and distribution operations, as well as developing and maintaining appropriate market share, and customer relationships. Competition could cause us to lose market share, exit certain lines of business, increase marketing or other expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental, health and safety regulation in numerous jurisdictions. We may be subject to substantial costs, liabilities and other adverse effects on our business relating to these matters. Our operations are regulated by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the countries where we operate, including those governing the labeling, use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. These laws and regulations require us to implement procedures for the handling of hazardous materials and for operating in potentially hazardous conditions, and they impose liability on us for the cleanup of environmental contamination. In addition to liabilities arising out of our current and future operations for which we have ongoing processes to manage compliance with environmental obligations, we may be subject to liabilities for past operations at current facilities and in some cases to liabilities for past operations at facilities that we no longer own or operate. We may also be subject to liabilities for operations of acquired companies. We may incur material costs or liabilities to comply with environmental, health and safety requirements. In addition, our mining and industrial activities can result in serious accidents that could result in personal injuries, facility shutdowns, reputational harm to our business and/or cause us to expend significant amounts to remediate safety issues or repair damaged facilities. In addition, continued government and public emphasis in countries where we operate on environmental issues, including climate change, conservation and natural resource management, could result in new or more stringent forms of regulatory oversight of our industries, which may lead to increased levels of expenditures for environmental controls, land use restrictions affecting us or our suppliers and other conditions that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, certain aspects of Bunge's business and the larger food production chain generate carbon emissions. As a result, the expansion of voluntary and mandated participation in carbon markets, cap and trade systems and other programs could affect land-use decisions as well as the cost of agricultural production and the processing and transport of our products, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. We advance significant capital and provide other financing arrangements to farmers in Brazil and, as a result, our business and financial results may be adversely affected if these farmers are unable to repay the capital advanced to them. In Brazil, where there are limited third-party financing sources available to farmers, we provide financing services to farmers from whom we purchase soybeans and other agricultural commodities through prepaid commodity purchase contracts and advances, which are typically secured by the farmer's crop and a mortgage on the farmer's land and other assets. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had approximately $783 million and $1,163 million in outstanding prepaid commodity purchase contracts and advances to farmers, respectively. We are exposed to the risk that the underlying crop will be insufficient to satisfy a farmer's obligation under the financing arrangements as a result of weather and crop growing conditions, and other factors that influence the price, supply and demand for agricultural commodities. In addition, any collateral held by us as part of these financing transactions may not be sufficient to fully protect us from loss. We also sell fertilizer on credit to farmers in Brazil. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our total fertilizer segment accounts receivable were $586 million and $857 million, respectively. During 2008, approximately 36% of our fertilizer sales were made on credit. Furthermore, in connection with our fertilizer sales, we issue guarantees to a financial institution in Brazil related to amounts owed the institution by certain of our farmer customers. For additional information on these guarantees, see Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the event that the customers default on their obligations to either us or the financial institution under these financing arrangements, we would be required to recognize the associated bad debt expense or perform under the guarantees, as the case may be. Significant defaults by farmers under 19 Table of Contents these financial arrangements could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are a capital intensive business and depend on cash provided by our operations as well as access to external financing to operate and expand our business. We require significant amounts of capital to operate our business and fund capital expenditures. In addition, our working capital needs are directly affected by the prices of agricultural commodities, with increases in commodity prices generally causing increases in our borrowing levels. We are also required to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, upgrade and expand our extensive network of storage facilities, processing plants, refineries, mills, mines, ports, transportation assets and other facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances and changing safety and environmental standards in our industry. Furthermore, the expansion of our business and pursuit of acquisitions or other business opportunities may require us to have access to significant amounts of capital. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or raise sufficient external financing on attractive terms to fund these activities, including as a result of the current severe tightening in the global credit markets, we may be forced to limit our operations and growth plans, which may adversely impact our competitiveness and, therefore, our results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $3,532 million available under various committed short and long-term credit facilities and $3,583 million in total indebtedness. As a result of the current turmoil in global financial markets, failure by one or more banks to honor their funding commitments to us as a result of such banks' financial difficulties may adversely affect our ability to finance working capital and capital expenditures. In addition, our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged than we are and require us to dedicate more cash on a relative basis to servicing our debt and less to developing our business. This may limit our ability to run our business and use our resources in the manner in which we would like. Furthermore, difficult conditions in the global credit markets could adversely impact our ability to refinance maturing debt or adversely impact the cost or other terms of such refinancing. Our debt agreements do not have any credit ratings downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of our debt. However, credit rating downgrades would increase our borrowing costs under our credit facilities and, depending on their severity, could affect our ability to renew existing or to obtain new credit facilities or access the capital markets in the future on favorable terms. We may also be required to post collateral or provide third-party credit support under certain agreements as a result of such downgrades. A significant increase in our borrowing costs could impair our ability to compete effectively in our business relative to competitors with lower amounts of indebtedness and/or higher credit ratings. Our risk management strategies may not be effective. Our business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodity prices, transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We engage in hedging transactions to manage these risks. However, our hedging strategies may not be successful in minimizing our exposure to these fluctuations. In addition, our control procedures and risk management policies may not successfully prevent our traders from entering into unauthorized transactions that have the potential to impair our financial position. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 20 Table of Contents If our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results may be adversely affected. In connection with our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, we identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as described in "Item 9A. Controls and Procedures." These material weaknesses have subsequently been fully remediated as described further in Item 9A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, potential future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements not being prevented or detected and could adversely impact the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements or cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations, which in turn could harm our business or negatively impact our share price. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us and our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of holders of our common shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies or corporations incorporated in other jurisdictions. Most of our directors and some of our officers are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of those directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the U.S. judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act, or failure to act, involves fraud or dishonesty. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide for: •a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; •directors to be removed without cause only upon the affirmative vote of at least 66% of all votes attaching to all shares then in issue entitling the holder to attend and vote on the resolution; •restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; •our board of directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and •an affirmative vote of at least 66% of all votes attaching to all shares then in issue entitling the holder to attend and vote on the resolution for some business combination transactions, which have not been approved by our board of directors. 21 Table of Contents These provisions, as well as any additional anti-takeover measures our board could adopt in the future, could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-party's offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Adverse U.S. federal income tax rules apply to U.S. investors owning shares of a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, directly or indirectly. We will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes if 50% or more of our assets, including goodwill (based on an annual quarterly average), are passive assets, or 75% or more of our annual gross income is derived from passive assets. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the then market value of our common shares, which is subject to change. Based on certain estimates of our gross income and gross assets available as of December 31, 2008 and relying on certain exceptions in the applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, we do not believe that we are currently a PFIC. Such a characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors in our common shares. In particular, absent an election described below, a U.S. investor would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at ordinary income tax rates, plus a possible interest charge, in respect of gain derived from a disposition of our common shares, as well as certain distributions by us. In addition, a step-up in the tax basis of our common shares would not be available upon the death of an individual shareholder, and the preferential U.S. federal income tax rates generally applicable to dividends on our common shares held by certain U.S. investors would not apply. Since PFIC status is determined on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets and the nature of our activities from time to time, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. investors may desire to make an election to treat us as a "qualified electing fund" with respect to shares owned (a QEF election), in which case U.S. investors will be required to take into account a pro rata share of our earnings and net capital gain for each year, regardless of whether we make any distributions. As an alternative to the QEF election, a U.S. investor may be able to make an election to "mark to market" our common shares each taxable year and recognize ordinary income pursuant to such election based upon increases in the value of our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 