Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, results of operations and financial condition may vary materially from those we anticipate, estimate or project due to risks arising primarily in five key areas: • our operations under the Continental CPA may no longer be profitable; • our Corporate Aviation operation and other aviation services may affect our ability to operate profitably; • our covenants under the amended indentures of our convertible notes and the profile of our current shareholders; • rising costs, the global economic recession and the highly competitive nature of the airline industry; and • regulations, including listing regulation for publicly-traded companies, and other factors. Additionally, we may encounter risks in addition to those described in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely impair or offset our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our operations under the Continental CPA may no longer be profitable. We amended and restated the Continental CPA on June 5, 2008. The amendments became effective on July 1, 2008. In contrast to the Continental CPA in effect before the amendments, which had provided for us to earn a 10% margin on our expenses incurred flying as a regional carrier for Continental, the agreement now has fixed block hour rates, which are subject to an annual adjustment tied to a consumer price index (capped at 3.5% per annum). Under the Amended Continental CPA, the ceiling for the annual adjustment noted above is 3.5%; however, there is no floor; therefore, in prolonged deflationary periods, the annual adjustment can be a negative percentage. The rates under the Amended Continental CPA are considerably lower than the pre-amendment rates and will result in lower overall revenues. At this time, it is difficult to quantify the overall financial impact of the changes because the pre- and post-amendment agreements are substantially different, including with respect to the services covered. Our results will depend, in part, on the timing of our fleet changes and how successful we are in reducing our operating costs. We originally derived significant amounts of revenue from the reimbursement, plus the 10% margin, for aircraft rent, fuel and other expenses. Those expenses, and the corresponding revenue, will no longer be reflected on our financial statements as they will be incurred directly by Continental. Moreover, the rates we earn will be fixed and not tied to our expenses; consequently, we could be unprofitable if we do not manage our costs effectively. We would need to aggressively reduce managed expenses under the agreement if aircraft are removed from service and returned to Continental. Table of Contents Our charter operation and other aviation services may affect our ability to operate profitably. The aircraft transitioned in 2006 from the Continental CPA and in 2008 from our Branded Flying operation to our Corporate Aviation division have been unprofitable to date. Currently the aircraft deployed outside of the Continental CPA and the associated risks relate to over 12% of our fleet; however, if the Continental CPA were terminated, our fleet could be significantly reduced or these risks could extend across our entire fleet. The risks affecting our Corporate Aviation operations include: • our ability to obtain and finance any fleet expansion at acceptable rates of return; • our ability to create a profitable recognized brand and attract frequent group travelers; • the condition of the U.S. economy, including a prolonged global economic recession; and • competitive responses from other charter operators and aviation service providers. We remain dependent on Continental for the majority of our revenue and cash flows. We currently operate more than 87% of our fleet (214 aircraft) under the Continental CPA and so rely heavily on the financial and operational stability of Continental. The domestic airline environment in the United States continues to be extremely challenging for all carriers and Continental experienced a loss in the fourth quarter and for the full year of 2008. Continental has indicated that its own business and financial results are subject to a number of risk factors, many of which are uncontrollable, including the amount of debt it carries, volatile fuel prices, delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries, its high labor and pension costs, service interruptions at one of its hub airports, disruptions to the operations of any of its regional operators, disruptions in its computer systems, and industry conditions, including the airline pricing environment, an economic downturn in the U.S. and global economies, industry capacity decisions, industry consolidation, terrorist attacks, regulatory matters, excessive taxation, the availability and cost of insurance, public health threats and the seasonal nature of the airline business. We cannot predict the future impact of these factors on Continental. Moreover, changes in fare structures (most importantly in relation to business fares), booking patterns, low-cost competitor growth, customers’ direct booking on the internet, volatile fuel prices, competitors emerging from bankruptcies with reduced cost structures, rumored industry consolidation and other changes in the industry cannot be predicted at this time, but could have a material adverse effect on both Continental’s and our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our Continental CPA could be terminated. We currently operate 214 aircraft for Continental under the Continental CPA. Although Continental no longer has the unilateral right to remove aircraft from the Continental CPA, Continental is permitted to reduce that number to a minimum of 190 aircraft after June 30, 2009. In the event that Continental exercises this right, the 190 aircraft will remain covered by the agreement through its scheduled June 30, 2015 expiration. After a term of seven years, the Amended Continental CPA is scheduled to expire with no renewal or extension options. Additionally, Continental can also terminate the agreement: • for cause, at any time without giving us notice or an opportunity to cure; • at any time upon our material breach that does not constitute cause, including our failure to complete a specified percentage of our scheduled flights, if the breach continues for 90 days after we receive notice of the breach; • at any time, upon two business days notice, and with no opportunity to cure, if Continental reasonably and in good faith determines, using recognized standards of safety, that there is a material safety concern with our operation of any flights under the agreement; and • at any time, without giving us notice or an opportunity to cure, if a change of control occurs as described in “—Continental Capacity Purchase and Other Agreements.” Table of Contents We could lose access to our aircraft, facilities and regulatory authorizations if the Continental CPA were terminated. We currently lease or sublease almost all of our aircraft from Continental. If Continental terminated the Continental CPA for cause, it would have the right to terminate our leases and subleases for aircraft covered by the agreement at the time of termination. Additionally, if Continental’s financial condition deteriorated and it filed for bankruptcy protection, it would have the ability to reject the leases or subleases on our aircraft. There can be no assurance that Continental will have sufficient liquidity to fund its future operations and other financial obligations, especially in the event additional adverse factors beyond its control occur, such as declining passenger revenue mix from global economic recessions, volatile fuel prices, terrorist attacks or adverse regulatory rulings. Additionally, if the Continental CPA were terminated for any reason, including termination at the end of its term on June 30, 2015, we could lose access to some or substantially all of our airport facilities and other services that Continental currently provides to us, as well as our take-off and landing slots and route authorities. Continental leases most of the airport facilities that we use. We could be required to vacate the terminal facilities (or all facilities if the termination resulted from our material breach of the Continental CPA) that are subleased to us by Continental, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to assign to Continental or its designee any lease in our name where we fly for Continental. Consequently, to offer commercial airline services in the same markets, we would have to arrange to use the same or other airport facilities, take-off or landing slots, route authorities and other regulatory authorizations used for scheduled flights at potentially higher rates. We cannot provide any assurance that we would be able to gain appropriate access to airport facilities, slots or other authorizations, or would not incur a significant increase in our costs to do so. We may not be successful in retaining qualified personnel to maintain the current level of customer service and reliability. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs, and wage rates, in general, are increasing. To return to profitability, we reduced our work force significantly and obtained wage and salary concessions from each of our employees that remain. Because of this, our employees may elect to seek other employment opportunities, thereby increasing our recruiting and training costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to find qualified personnel to fill our vacancies. As our workforce matures, we may not be able to cover the resulting higher wage rates if competition or other conditions do not permit us to achieve sufficient revenues. Approximately 77% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Deterioration in our labor relationships could significantly impact our operations and financial results. Consolidations in our industry can adversely impact our current business strategy. There have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the U.S airline industry since its deregulation in 1978, and there may be additional mergers and acquisitions in the future. Any airline industry consolidation could substantially alter the competitive landscape and may result in changes in our business strategy. Although the majority of our current flying is under contractual obligations and, thus, is insulated somewhat from the immediate impact of any change of control, consolidation involving legacy carriers in our industry could, in the long run, result in the reduction of capacity for network-feed services to be provided by the regional carriers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Table of Contents Amendments to the terms of the convertible notes increased our obligations and put our assets at risk. As a result and pursuant to the terms of the exchange offer, the Company issued 163,824,975 shares (pre-Reverse Split) of common stock in payment of the repurchase price for the principal amount of the 4.25% convertible notes due 2023 (the “Original 4.25% Convertible Notes due 2023”) validly tendered. Following the completion of the tender offer, the Company had $68.5 million aggregate principal of its Original 4.25% Convertible Notes due 2023 remaining outstanding. As previously disclosed, we have unilaterally amended the indenture governing our convertible notes in order to provide improved terms and additional flexibility for the noteholders remaining after the exchange offer, including: • The obligations under the remaining notes are secured with a pro-rata portion (based on the portion that the remaining notes represent of the total convertible notes that were issued) of assets with an appraised value of approximately as of December 31, 2008 of $180.4 million, including approximately $96 million in spare parts and $85 million of spare engines; • The interest rate on the remaining notes was increased from 4.25% to 11.25% over the remaining note term; and • The noteholders have an additional put right on August 1, 2011. Noteholders of record on August 2, 2008, automatically began to receive the benefits of the supplemental indenture that become effective the same day. From August 2 forward, the notes will be referred to as the “11.25% Convertible Secured Notes due 2023.” The terms of the 11.25% Convertible Secured Notes due 2023 could have important consequences by adversely affecting our financial condition and making it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the notes and our other contractual and commercial commitments. The amendments also increased the cash required to service the interest on the notes. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may be required to take actions such as curtailing our business activities, reducing capital expenditures, selling assets, incurring additional debt or seeking bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to accomplish any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, if we are unable to repay our obligations under the notes, the trustee could seek to foreclose on the assets securing the notes. A significant percentage of our common stock outstanding is held by a small number of institutional stockholders. These institutional stockholders may be able to exert significant control over the election of our Board of Directors and the management of our business and their interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. As reported in their filings with the SEC, four large, institutional investors currently own or control a significant amount of our common stock. By virtue of the number of shares they control, these stockholders may be able to significantly influence or control our management and affairs, and initiate or effect corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of these institutional investors may differ from that of other stockholders, with the result that the institutional investors may cause us to change our business strategy or objectives in ways that may not be viewed favorably by us, our strategic partners or other stockholders and may lead to increased costs. Our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE. Our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE if we fail to maintain the continued listing standards applicable to our Company. Table of Contents We were notified in July 2008 from NYSE Regulation, Inc. that we were not in compliance with the NYSE $1.00 average share price continued listing standard. We immediately pursued various solutions and worked closely with the NYSE to maintain our current listing. As of January 20, 2009, we received a letter from the NYSE stating that we have cured such non-compliance and returned to good standing for our listing at the NYSE. No further adverse actions will be taken by the NYSE at this time; however, considering the current global economic recession, the volatility of the stock market and the make-up of our current stockholders, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to meet all the continued listing standards. If we do not meet the standards, we could be subject to delisting, which would constitute a default under our convertible notes and could result in the obligation to repay the notes in cash at par. We may be responsible for additional taxes as a result of our tax agreement with Continental. We have a tax agreement with Continental that provides, among other things, for our payment to Continental of all or a significant portion of the tax benefits we realize as a result of an internal reorganization done prior to our initial public offering in 2002. Since that time, we have made net payments of approximately $122.5 million to Continental under the agreement and could pay Continental as much as an additional $234.6 million through 2017. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 10 Income Taxes” for a detailed discussion of our income taxes and the tax agreement. If it were determined, as a result of an income tax audit or examination, that a significant amount of these tax benefits should not have been available, thus requiring us to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties to one or more tax authorities, and if at that time Continental were unable to indemnify us for these amounts as contemplated in the tax agreement, then we could be responsible for such tax payments, interest and penalties. We may be unable to obtain all of the parts or related support services we expect from Embraer to operate our aircraft. We operate a single fleet type produced by a single manufacturer; consequently, our operations could be materially adversely affected by: • Embraer’s inability to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis-- especially in light of its announcement to cease the production of our current fleet type; • the issuance of FAA directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Embraer regional jets or parts; • unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements; or • force majeure events that prevent Embraer from performing under the lease agreement. Conversely, if we choose to operate another aircraft type in the future, for a time we will not have the maintenance expertise we have acquired with our current fleet, training costs would increase, and parts and inventory costs would rise. Maintenance costs will likely increase as the average age of our fleet increases. Similar to other air carriers in our industry, as the average age of our fleet increases, our aircraft maintenance costs will likely increase. We emphasize routine maintenance in addition to the inspection of our aircraft engines and airframes at intervals required by the FAA. We perform line and heavy maintenance at our maintenance facilities and satellite stations located throughout the United States. Additionally, we have a “power-by-the-hour” agreement with Rolls Royce to maintain the engines on our aircraft through April 2015. Under the agreement, we are charged a fixed rate based on flight hours incurred during a month. The rates are subject to annual revisions based on specified labor and material indices. We also have power-by-the-hour agreements with other vendors to cover various components and systems on our aircraft, and will continue to evaluate and implement similar agreements when the terms are favorable. Table of Contents However, our average maintenance costs could increase and adversely impact our results of operations in the event that we have to address any new FAA or Embraer maintenance directives. We are not aware of any such directives at this time that will adversely affect our maintenance costs. Reductions in insurance coverage or increases in rates could adversely impact our operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums, as well as a decrease in the coverage available to commercial air carriers. We carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and damage to our aircraft. The Homeland Security Act of 2002 currently requires the federal government to provide third party, passenger, and hull war-risk insurance coverage to commercial air carriers through March 31, 2009. If any of our insurance programs terminated, the Company would likely face a material increase in the cost of war-risk insurance. Our cost structure may not be competitive with some of our competitors. Our costs are mainly driven by the flight schedule determined by Continental, Continental’s own cost structure or factors that are outside our control, or in some instances even Continental’s control (such as aircraft rent, fuel, insurance, property taxes, etc.). As a significant portion of our costs are wages that are contractually agreed with our labor work groups, we may not be able to restructure our costs effectively to compete with other carriers even though in the past we have been successful in our concessionary discussions. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and we may incur additional costs to comply with such regulations. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation. As evidenced by the enactment of the ATSA, airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that can or may result in significant costs. The FAA and other governmental agencies such as the EPA from time to time issue directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Some requirements cover, among other things, security measures, collision avoidance systems, potable water standards, noise abatement and other environmental matters, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures conducted on older aircraft. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with these regulations. In addition, if any of these regulations caused us to cancel flights, it would result in a reduction in our revenue. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges are proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. Such laws, taxes and regulations have affected all facets of our operations from security at airports, restrictions on landing, take-off, routes, restrictions on international routes (which can change suddenly depending on the current arrangements between the United States and the foreign governments), and increases in landing fees and other airport facility charges. We cannot be certain that current laws or regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect us. We may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including weather conditions and the availability and cost of fuel. During periods of fog, icy conditions, storms, hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Under the Amended Continental CPA, we are not protected against cancellations due to weather or air traffic control restrictions, which could adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Table of Contents Additionally, in operating our aircraft for other airlines or under charter contracts we may be exposed to the volatility of fuel prices. Both the cost and availability of fuel are subject to various economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world. Significant changes or extended periods of high fuel cost or fuel supply disruptions could materially affect our operating results. Our ability to pass on increased fuel costs through contract pricing is limited by several factors, including economic and competitive conditions. Additionally, under the Continental CPA, if the unavailability of fuel caused us to cancel flights, our incentive revenue would be reduced. The cost and availability of adequate supplies of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our financial condition in the future. Our reliance on technology could be harmful in the event of system failure. Like other air carriers, we rely heavily on automated systems and technology to operate our business, including flight operations and telecommunications. Any disruptions in these systems due to internal failures of technology or external interruptions, such as power outages, could result in the loss of critical data and/or cancellation of flights and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected as a result of an aviation accident. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service, as well as significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance. In the event of an accident, our liability insurance may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from the accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm operational and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could create a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC’s staff as of the date of this filing. 