Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that May Affect our Future Operating Results and Financial Condition Our results of operations and financial condition may vary materially from those we anticipate, estimate or project due to risks arising primarily in four key areas: • our ability to operate profitably outside of our contractual flying; • our reliance on Continental for the majority of our revenue; • rising costs and the highly competitive nature of the airline industry; and • regulation and other factors Table of Contents Our operations outside of the Continental CPA may affect our ability to operate profitably The aircraft transitioned last year from the Continental CPA to the Delta Prorate, ExpressJet branded flying and charter flying have been unprofitable to date. Currently the aircraft deployed outside of capacity purchase agreements and the associated risks relate only to 22% of our fleet; however, if the Continental CPA were terminated, our fleet could be significantly reduced or these risks could extend across our entire fleet. The risks affecting our new operations include: • high fuel costs; • our ability to obtain and finance any expansion at acceptable rates of return; • our ability to create a profitable recognized brand; • the condition of the U.S. economy; and • competitive responses from other air carriers. As we continue our diversification, we need to successfully develop markets that are new for us. The risks of entering new markets or our inability to effectively manage our costs could lead to our decision to significantly reduce our aircraft utilization, including the removal of some aircraft from service, and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additional competitive responses to our Branded service may make that service even more unprofitable The airline industry is fiercely competitive. Barriers to entry are low, and a number of airlines have failed over the years. Subject to the availability of space, and in some cases the right to serve certain airports, we have the right to serve most U.S. airports. However, most airports already have some combination of legacy, regional and low-cost carriers and we cannot predict with certainty the competitive response we might face in a given market or future competitive response from current or future airlines where we currently operate. Carriers with comparatively larger fleets and more capital have greater flexibility to increase frequencies into a market or to reduce fares. They also enjoy established brand recognition and may have marketing alliances that we do not, which enable them to compete more effectively. There have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the U.S airline industry since its deregulation in 1978, and there may be additional mergers and acquisitions in the future. Any airline industry consolidation could substantially alter the competitive landscape and may result in changes in our business strategy. Although the majority of our current flying is under contractual obligations and, thus, is insulated somewhat from the immediate impact of any change of control, consolidation involving legacy carriers in our industry could, in the long run, result in the reduction of capacity for network-feed services to be provided by the regional carriers, which could have a material adverse effect on us, We remain dependent on Continental for the majority of our revenue and cash flows We operate 75% of our fleet (205 aircraft) under the Continental CPA and so rely heavily on the financial and operational stability of Continental. Although Continental has returned to profitability, the domestic airline environment in the United States continues to be extremely challenging for all carriers. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Continental reported net income of $459 million and has indicated that its own business and financial results are subject to a number of risk factors, many of which are uncontrollable, including low-cost competitors, higher fuel prices, pension liability, terrorist attacks and adverse regulatory rulings. Table of Contents We cannot predict the future impact of these factors on Continental. Moreover, record fuel prices, changes in fare structures (most importantly in relation to business fares), booking patterns, low-cost competitor growth, customers’ direct booking on the internet, competitors emerging from bankruptcies that were able to reduce their cost structures, rumored industry consolidation and other changes in the industry cannot be predicted at this time, but could have a material adverse effect on both Continental’s and our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In the past, Airlines and Continental have been unable to agree on rates under the Continental CPA and have submitted our disagreements to binding arbitration in accordance with the agreement’s terms. We began 2008 rate discussions with Continental last September. The Continental CPA contemplates a November 1 deadline for setting the rates; however, the parties agreed to extend the deadline. Although we believed that we were nearing completion of the rate setting process, Continental advised us on February 28, that if we were unable to reach agreement by March 14, they might initiate arbitration proceedings again in accordance with the provisions of the Continental CPA. We can also initiate arbitration if we thought it necessary. As of the date of this filing neither party has triggered arbitration and we remain hopeful that it will not be necessary. Although we prevailed on a significant portion of our claims in 2007, we can provide no assurance that we would be as successful in a new arbitration. Airlines will continue to be paid under the 2007 block hour rates until 2008 rates are finalized and expects the parties’ decision (or that of the arbitration panel, if necessary) setting the revised rates to be retroactive to January 1, 2008. If the arbitration panel were to issue a decision that is wholly or partially adverse to Airlines, then Airlines could have a significant liability to Continental for overpayments that Continental would have made since January 1, and Airlines could receive significantly smaller payments from Continental for the remainder of 2008. The final arbitration decision could also significantly affect future payments for the remaining term of the Continental CPA. In addition, another arbitration may be disruptive to our ongoing relationship with Continental and divert management’s attention and resources from our operations and other business activities. One or more of these results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position. Our Continental CPA could be terminated Although Continental cannot reduce the aircraft we fly under the Continental CPA again prior to December 28, 2009, Continental can terminate the agreement at any time with 12-months notice. If the agreement were terminated, our revenue from Continental would be effectively eliminated after the pertinent wind-down period and we would incur significant losses unless we were able to profitably redeploy the 205 aircraft currently being flown for Continental. We cannot be certain that we would be able to do so or, if we did, that the alternative business would be as profitable as the Continental CPA. Although the Continental CPA is scheduled to terminate on December 31, 2010, in addition to its right to terminate the agreement at any time upon 12-months notice, Continental can also terminate the agreement: • for cause, as described in “—Continental Capacity Purchase and Other Agreements,” at any time without giving us notice or an opportunity to cure; • at any time upon our material breach that does not constitute cause, including our failure to complete a specified percentage of our scheduled flights, if the breach continues for 90 days after we receive notice of the breach; and • at any time, without giving us notice or an opportunity to cure, if Continental reasonably and in good faith determines, using recognized standards of safety, that there is a material safety concern with our operation of any flights under the agreement. Table of Contents We could lose access to our aircraft, facilities and regulatory authorizations if the Continental CPA were terminated We currently lease or sublease all of our aircraft from Continental. If Continental terminated the Continental CPA for cause, it would have the right to terminate our leases and subleases for aircraft covered by the agreement at the time of termination. Additionally, if Continental’s financial condition deteriorated and it filed for bankruptcy protection, it would have the ability to reject the leases or subleases on our aircraft. There can be no assurance that Continental will have sufficient liquidity to fund its future operations and other financial obligations, especially in the event additional adverse factors beyond its control occur, such as escalating fuel prices, terrorist attacks or adverse regulatory rulings. Additionally, if the Continental CPA were terminated for any reason, we could lose access to some or substantially all of our airport facilities and other services that Continental currently provides to us, as well as our take-off and landing slots and route authorities. Continental leases most of the airport facilities that we use. We could be required to vacate the terminal facilities (or all facilities if the termination results from our material breach of the Continental CPA) that are subleased to us by Continental, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to assign to Continental or its designee any lease in our name where we fly for Continental. Consequently, to offer airline services in the same markets, we would have to arrange to use the same or other airport facilities, take-off or landing slots, route authorities and other regulatory authorizations used for scheduled flights at potentially higher rates. We cannot provide any assurance that we would be able to gain appropriate access to airport facilities, slots or other authorizations, or would not incur a significant increase in our costs to do so. Conversion of our convertible notes would dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders On August 1, 2008, holders of our outstanding $134.7 million aggregate principal amount 4.25% convertible notes due 2023 may require us to repurchase their notes. We may pay the repurchase price in cash or in stock. The conversion of some or all of our senior convertible notes would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could further depress the price of our common stock. We may not be successful in retaining qualified personnel to maintain the current level of customer service and reliability and to execute our diversification plans Labor cost constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs and wage rates, in general, are increasing. Because of this, our employees may elect to seek other employment opportunities, thereby increasing our recruiting and training costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to find qualified personnel to fill our vacancies. As our workforce matures, we may not be able to cover the resulting higher wage rates if competition or other conditions do not permit us to achieve sufficient revenues. Approximately 65% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Deterioration in our labor relationships could significantly impact our operations and results. Table of Contents We may be responsible for additional taxes as a result of our tax agreement with Continental We have a tax agreement with Continental that provides, among other things, for our payment to Continental of all or a significant portion of the tax benefits we realize as a result of an internal reorganization done prior to our initial public offering in 2002. Since that time, we have made net payments of approximately $123.4 million to Continental under the agreement and could pay Continental as much as an additional $234.6 million through 2017. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 8” for a detailed discussion of our income taxes and the tax agreement. If it were determined, as a result of an income tax audit or examination, that a significant amount of these tax benefits should not have been available, thus requiring us to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties to one or more tax authorities, and if at that time Continental were unable to indemnify us for these amounts as contemplated in the tax agreement, then we could be responsible for such tax payments, interest and penalties. We may be unable to obtain all of the parts or related support services we expect from Embraer to operate our aircraft We operate a single fleet type produced by a single manufacturer; consequently, our operations could be materially adversely affected by: • Embraer’s inability to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis-- especially in light of its announcement to cease the production of our current fleet type; • the issuance of FAA directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Embraer regional jets or parts; • unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements; or • force majeure events that prevent Embraer from performing under the lease agreement. Conversely, if we choose to operate another aircraft type in the future, for a time we will not have the maintenance expertise we have acquired with our current fleet, training costs would increase, and parts and inventory costs would rise. Maintenance costs will likely increase as the average age of our fleet increases Similar to other air carriers in our industry, as the average age of our fleet increases, our aircraft maintenance costs will likely increase. We emphasize routine maintenance in addition to the inspection of our aircraft engines and airframes at intervals required by the FAA. We perform line and heavy maintenance at our maintenance facilities and satellite stations located throughout the Midwest and Eastern parts of the United States. Additionally, we have a “power-by-the-hour” agreement with Rolls Royce to maintain the engines on our aircraft through April 2015. Under the agreement, we are charged a fixed rate based on flight hours incurred during a month. The rates are subject to annual revisions based on specified labor and material indices. We also have power-by-the-hour agreements with other vendors to cover various components and systems on our aircraft, and will continue to evaluate and implement similar agreements when the terms are favorable. However, our average maintenance costs could increase and adversely impact our results of operations in the event that we have to address any new FAA or Embraer maintenance directives. We are not aware of any such directives at this time that will adversely affect our maintenance costs. Table of Contents Reductions in insurance coverage or increases in rates could adversely impact our operations and financial results The terrorist attacks of 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums, as well as a decrease in the coverage available to commercial air carriers. We carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and damage to our aircraft. The Homeland Security Act of 2002 currently requires the federal government to provide third party, passenger, and hull war-risk insurance coverage to commercial air carriers through August 31, 2008. If any of our insurance programs terminated, the Company would likely face a material increase in the cost of war-risk insurance. Our cost structure may not be competitive with some of our competitors Because we do not control our own flight schedule under the Continental CPA, only 40% of these costs are controlled by us. All other costs are driven by the flight schedule determined by Continental, Continental’s own cost structure or factors that are outside our control, or in some instances even Continental’s control (such as aircraft rent, fuel, insurance, property taxes, etc.). As a significant portion of our costs are allocated and/or inherited from Continental, we may not be able to restructure our costs effectively to compete with low-cost or other carriers. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and we may incur additional costs to comply with such regulations Our business is subject to extensive government regulation. As evidenced by the enactment of the ATSA, airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that can or may result in significant costs. The FAA and other governmental agencies such as the EPA from time to time issue directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Some requirements cover, among other things, security measures, collision avoidance systems, potable water standards, noise abatement and other environmental matters, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures conducted on older aircraft. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with these regulations. In addition, if any of these regulations caused us to cancel flights, the resulting reduction in our revenue from performance penalties would not be taken into account in any reconciliation payment made under the Continental CPA to maintain our operating margin within a specified range. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges are proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. Such laws, taxes and regulations have affected all facets of our operations from security at airports, restrictions on landing, take-off, routes, restrictions on international routes (which can change suddenly depending on the current arrangements between the United States and the foreign governments), and increases in landing fees and other airport facility charges. We cannot be certain that current laws or regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect us. We may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including weather conditions and the availability and cost of fuel Generally, revenue for airlines depends on the number of passengers carried, the fare paid by each passenger and service factors, such as timeliness of departure and arrival. During periods of fog, icy conditions, storms, hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Under the Continental CPA, we are substantially protected against cancellations due to weather or air traffic control restrictions. However, when we operate our aircraft for other airlines, we may not be, and when operating under our own brand, we are not, protected against weather or air traffic control cancellations, which could adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Table of Contents Additionally, in operating our aircraft for other airlines we may be, and in Branded Flying we are, exposed to the volatility of fuel prices. Both the cost and availability of fuel are subject to various economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world. Significant changes or extended periods of high fuel cost or fuel supply disruptions would materially affect our operating results. Our ability to pass on increased fuel costs through fare increases is limited by several factors, including economic and competitive conditions. Additionally, under the Continental CPA, if the unavailability of fuel caused us to cancel flights, our incentive revenue would be reduced. The cost and availability of adequate supplies of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our financial condition in the future. Our reliance on technology could be harmful in the event of system failure Like other air carriers, we rely heavily on automated systems and technology to operate our business, including computerized airline reservations, flight operations and telecommunications. Any disruptions in these systems due to internal failures of technology or external interruptions, such as power outages, could result in the loss of critical data and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected as a result of an aviation accident An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service, as well as significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance. In the event of an accident, our liability insurance may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from the accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm operational and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could create a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines. Our reliance on third-party service providers could adversely affect our operations if they failed to perform their functions Our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may limit our ability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including ticketing distribution, fuel supply and delivery, aircraft maintenance, services and ground facilities, and expect to enter into additional similar agreements in the future. These agreements are subject to termination for various reasons. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of our automated or contract services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC’s staff as of the date of this filing. Table of Contents 