Item 1A Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as described below. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Risks Related to our Business Generally The amount of cash that we will be able to distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our coal and natural gas midstream businesses. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, we must pay our general partner’s expenses and set aside any cash reserve amounts before making a distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash that we will be able to distribute each quarter on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our coal and natural gas midstream businesses. The amount of cash we will generate will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of coal our lessees are able to produce; • the price at which our lessees are able to sell the coal; • the lessees’ timely receipt of payment from their customers; • the amount of natural gas transported in our gathering systems; • the amount of throughput in our processing plants; • the price of natural gas; 12 • the price of NGLs; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our midstream services; and • our hedging activities. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner in its sole discretion for the proper conduct of our business. You should also be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record profits. We may not be able to fully execute our growth strategy and our results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate the businesses we acquire or if we substantially increase our indebtedness and contingent liabilities. Our strategy contemplates growth through the development and acquisition of a wide range of midstream and coal assets while maintaining a strong balance sheet. This strategy includes constructing and acquiring additional assets and businesses to enhance our ability to compete effectively and diversify our asset portfolio, thereby providing more stable cash flow. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding, and are currently contemplating, potential joint ventures, stand alone projects or other transactions that we believe will present opportunities to realize synergies and increase our market positions in the coal and midstream businesses. We may require substantial new capital to finance the future development and acquisition of assets and businesses. Limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute this strategy. Expensive capital will limit our ability to develop or acquire accretive assets. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire in the future. We may incur substantial expenses or encounter delays or other problems in connection with our growth strategy that could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Moreover, acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies or business segments; • inefficiencies and complexities that can arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them, including with their markets; • unanticipated costs or liabilities; and • diversion of the attention of management and other personnel from day-to-day business to the development or acquisition of new businesses and other business opportunities. If consummated, any acquisition or investment would also likely result in the incurrence of indebtedness and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest expense and depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses. As a result, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly following an acquisition. A substantial increase in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Coal Business If our lessees do not manage their operations well, their production volumes and our coal royalty revenues could decrease. We depend on our lessees to effectively manage their operations on our properties. Our lessees make their own business decisions with respect to their operations, including decisions relating to: 13 • the method of mining; • credit review of their customers; • marketing of the coal mined; • coal transportation arrangements; • negotiations with unions; • employee wages; • permitting; • surety bonding; and • mine closure and reclamation. If our lessees do not manage their operations well, their production could be reduced, which would result in lower coal royalty revenues to us and could adversely affect our ability to make our quarterly distributions. Coal mining operations are subject to numerous operational risks that could result in lower coal royalty revenues. Our coal royalty revenues are largely dependent on the level of production from our coal reserves achieved by our lessees. The level of our lessees’ production is subject to operating conditions or events beyond their or our control, including: • the inability to acquire necessary permits; • changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • changes in governmental regulation of the coal industry; • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • adverse claims to title or existing defects of title; • interruptions due to power outages; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; • labor-related interruptions; • employee injuries or fatalities; and • fires and explosions. These conditions may increase our lessees’ cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines for varying lengths of time. Any interruptions to the production of coal from our reserves could reduce our coal royalty revenues and adversely affect our ability to make our quarterly distributions. In addition, our coal royalty revenues are based upon sales of coal by our lessees to their customers. If our lessees do not receive payments for delivered coal on a timely basis from their customers, their cash flow would be adversely affected, which could cause our cash flow to be adversely affected and could adversely affect our ability to make our quarterly distributions. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could reduce our coal royalty revenues and the value of our coal reserves. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices from recent levels could have a material adverse effect on our lessees’ operations and on the quantities of coal that may be economically produced from our properties. This, in turn, could reduce our coal royalty revenues, our coal services revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Additionally, volatility in coal prices could make it difficult to estimate with precision the value of our coal reserves and any coal reserves that we may consider for acquisition. We depend on a limited number of primary operators for a significant portion of our coal royalty revenues and the loss of or reduction in production from any of our major lessees could reduce our coal royalty revenues. We depend on a limited number of primary operators for a significant portion of our coal royalty revenues. During 2005, five primary operators, each with multiple leases, accounted for 78 percent of our coal royalty revenues. If any of these operators enters bankruptcy or decide to cease operations or significantly reduce its production, our coal royalty revenues could be reduced. A failure on the part of our lessees to make coal royalty payments could give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the property or obtain liquidation damages and/or enforce payment obligations under the lease. If we repossessed any of our properties, we would seek to find a replacement lessee. We may not be able to find a replacement lessee and, if we find a replacement lessee, we may not be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. 14 In addition, the outgoing lessee could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings that could further delay the execution of a new lease or the assignment of the existing lease to another operator. If we enter into a new lease, the replacement operator might not achieve the same levels of production or sell coal at the same price as the lessee it replaced. In addition, it may be difficult for us to secure new or replacement lessees for small or isolated coal reserves, since industry trends toward consolidation favor larger-scale, higher technology mining operations to increase productivity rates. Our coal business will be adversely affected if we are unable to replace or increase our reserves through acquisitions. Because our reserves decline as our lessees mine our coal, our future success and growth depends, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. If we are unable to negotiate purchase contracts to replace or increase our coal reserves on acceptable terms, our coal royalty revenues will decline as our coal reserves are depleted. In addition, if we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties we are able to acquire, our coal royalty revenues may decline and we could, therefore, experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we acquire additional coal reserves, there is a possibility that any acquisition could be dilutive to earnings and reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders or to pay interest on, or the principal of, our debt obligations. Any debt we incur to finance an acquisition may similarly affect our ability to make distributions to unitholders or to pay interest on, or the principal of, our debt obligations. Our ability to make acquisitions in the future also could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates. Lessees could satisfy obligations to their customers with coal from properties other than ours, depriving us of the ability to receive amounts in excess of the minimum royalty payments. We do not control our lessees’ business operations. Our lessees’ customer supply contracts do not generally require our lessees to satisfy their obligations to their customers with coal mined from our reserves. Several factors may influence a lessee’s decision to supply its customers with coal mined from properties we do not own or lease, including the royalty rates under the lessee’s lease with us, mining conditions, transportation costs and availability and customer coal specifications. If a lessee satisfies its obligations to its customers with coal from properties we do not own or lease, production under our lease will decrease, and we will receive lower coal royalty revenues. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect the ability of our lessees to sell coal at high prices, which could reduce our coal royalty revenues. The coal industry is intensely competitive primarily as a result of the existence of numerous producers. Our lessees compete with coal producers in various regions of the United States for domestic sales. The industry has undergone significant consolidation which has led to some of the competitors of our lessees having significantly larger financial and operating resources than most of our lessees. Our lessees compete on the basis of coal price at the mine, coal quality (including sulfur content), transportation cost from the mine to the customer and the reliability of supply. Continued demand for our coal and the prices that our lessees obtain are also affected by demand for electricity, demand for metallurgical coal, access to transportation, environmental and government regulations, technological developments and the availability and price of alternative fuel supplies, including nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydroelectric power. Demand for our low sulfur coal and the prices our lessees will be able to obtain for it will also be affected by the price and availability of high sulfur coal, which can be marketed in tandem with emissions allowances which permit the high sulfur coal to meet federal Clean Air Act requirements. Competition among coal producers could result in excess production capacity in the industry, resulting in downward pressure on prices. Declining prices reduce our coal royalty revenues and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to unitholders and to service our debt obligations. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce the production of coal mined from our properties. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for the customers of our lessees. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make coal produced by some or all of our lessees less competitive than coal produced from other sources. On the other hand, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition for our lessees from coal producers in other parts of the country. Our lessees depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to deliver coal to their customers. Disruption of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks and other events could temporarily impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers. Our lessees’ transportation providers may face difficulties in the future and impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers, thereby resulting in decreased coal royalty revenues to us. 15 Our lessees could experience labor disruptions, and our lessees’ workforces could become increasingly unionized in the future. Two of our lessees each have one mine operated by unionized employees. One of these mines was our second largest mine on the basis of coal reserves as of December 31, 2005. All of our lessees could become increasingly unionized in the future. If some or all of our lessees’ non-unionized operations were to become unionized, it could adversely affect their productivity and increase the risk of work stoppages. In addition, our lessees’ operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies, particularly if union workers were to orchestrate boycotts against our lessees’ operations. Any further unionization of our lessees’ employees could adversely affect the stability of production from our reserves and reduce our coal royalty revenues. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may be inaccurate, which could materially adversely affect the quantities and value of our reserves. Our estimates of our reserves may vary substantially from the actual amounts of coal our lessees may be able to economically recover. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: • geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or which differ from our experiences in areas where our lessees currently mine; • the amount of ultimately recoverable coal in the ground; • the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and • future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes and development and reclamation costs. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the coal reserve data provided herein. Any change in fuel consumption patterns by electric power generators away from the use of coal could affect the ability of our lessees to sell the coal they produce and thereby reduce our coal royalty revenues. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, domestic electric power generation accounts for approximately 90% of domestic coal consumption. The amount of coal consumed for domestic electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants such as nuclear, natural gas, fuel oil and hydroelectric power and environmental and other governmental regulations. We believe that most new power plants will be built to produce electricity during peak periods of demand. Many of these new power plants will likely be fired by natural gas because of lower construction costs compared to coal-fired plants and because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel. The increasingly stringent requirements of the Clean Air Act may result in more electric power generators shifting from coal to natural gas-fired power plants. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation—Coal—Air Emissions.” Extensive environmental laws and regulations affecting electric power generators could have corresponding effects on the ability of our lessees to sell the coal they produce and thereby reduce our coal royalty revenues. Federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the ultimate consumers of the coal our lessees produce. These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures. There is also continuing pressure on state and federal regulators to impose limits on carbon dioxide emissions from electric power plants, particularly coal-fired power plants. As a result of these current and proposed laws, regulations and trends, electricity generators may elect to switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions, possibly further reducing demand for the coal that our lessees produce and thereby reducing our coal royalty revenues. Please read Item 1, “Business—Regulation—Coal—Air Emissions.” Delays in our lessees obtaining mining permits and approvals, or the inability to obtain required permits and approvals, could have an adverse effect on our coal royalty revenues. 16 Mine operators, including our lessees, must obtain numerous permits and approvals that impose strict conditions and obligations relating to various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining. The permitting rules are complex and can change over time. The public has the right to comment on permit applications and otherwise participate in the permitting process, including through court intervention. Accordingly, permits required by our lessees to conduct operations may not be issued, maintained or renewed, or may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our lessees’ ability to economically conduct their mining operations. Limitations on our lessees’ ability to conduct their mining operations due to the inability to obtain or renew necessary permits could have an adverse effect on our coal royalty revenues. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation—Coal—Mining Permits and Approvals.” Our lessees’ mining operations are subject to extensive and costly laws and regulations, and such current and future laws and regulations could increase operating costs and limit our lessees’ ability to produce coal, which could have an adverse effect on our coal royalty revenues. Our lessees are subject to numerous and detailed federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting coal mining operations, including laws and regulations pertaining to employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. Our lessees are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be significant and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new laws or regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may be adopted in the future that could materially affect our lessees’ mining operations, either through direct impacts such as new requirements impacting our lessees’ existing mining operations, or indirect impacts such as new laws and regulations that discourage or limit coal consumers’ use of coal. Any of these direct or indirect impacts could have an adverse effect on our coal royalty revenues. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation.” Because of extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, violations during mining operations are not unusual in the industry and, notwithstanding compliance efforts, we do not believe violations by our lessees can be eliminated completely. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and, to a lesser extent, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. Our lessees may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from their operations. If our lessees are required to pay these costs and liabilities and if their financial viability is affected by doing so, then their mining operations and, as a result, our coal royalty revenues and our ability to make distributions, could be adversely affected. Recent mining accidents in West Virginia and Kentucky have received national attention and instigated responses at the state and national level that are likely to result in increased scrutiny of current safety practices and procedures at all mining operations, particularly underground mining operations. These recent events could also potentially result in the promulgation of more stringent mine safety laws and regulations, or amendments to existing mine safety laws, including increased sanctions for non-compliance. These potential future mine safety laws and regulations, or amendments to existing mine safety laws and regulations, and the cost of compliance with such, could adversely affect our lessees’ coal production which could have an adverse affect on our coal royalty revenues and our ability to make distributions. Risks Related to our Midstream Business The success of our midstream business depends upon our ability to find and contract for new sources of natural gas supply. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and asset utilization rates at our processing plants, we must contract for new natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to our gathering systems include our success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and the level of drilling activity creating new gas supply near our gathering systems. We may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells and the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. 17 A substantial portion of our midstream assets, including our gathering systems and processing plants, are connected to natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Our cash flows associated with these systems will decline unless we are able to access new supplies of natural gas by connecting additional production to these systems. A material decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operation, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, would result in a decline in the volume of natural gas we handle, which would reduce our revenues and operating income. In addition, our future growth will depend, in part, upon whether we can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. We may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other pipelines, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas in the markets we serve. The profitability of our midstream business is dependent upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond our control and have been volatile. We are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. During 2005, we generated a majority of our gross margin from two types of contractual arrangements under which our margin is exposed to increases and decreases in the price of natural gas and NGLs—percentage-of-proceeds and keep-whole arrangements. Virtually all of the natural gas gathered on the Crescent System and the Hamlin System is contracted under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements. The natural gas gathered on the Beaver System is contracted primarily under either percentage-of proceeds or gas purchase/keep-whole arrangements. Under both types of arrangements, we provide gathering and processing services for natural gas received. Under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally sell the NGLs produced from the processing operations and the remaining residue gas at market prices and remit to the producers an agreed upon percentage of the proceeds based upon an index price for the gas and the price received for the NGLs. Under these percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, revenues and gross margins decline when natural gas prices and NGL prices decrease. Accordingly, a decrease in the price of natural gas or NGLs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under gas purchase/keep-whole arrangements, we generally buy natural gas from producers based upon an index price and then sell the NGLs and the remaining residue gas to third parties at market prices. Because the extraction of the NGLs from the natural gas during processing reduces the volume of natural gas available for sale, profitability is dependent on the value of those NGLs being higher than the value of the volume of gas reduction or “shrink.” Under these arrangements, revenues and gross margins decrease when the price of natural gas increases relative to the price of NGLs. Accordingly, a change in the relationship between the price of natural gas and the price of NGLs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. The markets and prices for residue gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. We encounter competition from other midstream companies. We experience competition in all of our midstream markets. Competition is based on many factors, including geographic proximity to production, costs of connection, available capacity, rates and access to markets. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines and companies that gather, compress, process, transport and market natural gas. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and access to larger natural gas supplies than we do. 18 Expanding our midstream business by constructing new gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities subjects us to construction risks. One of the ways we may grow our midstream business is through the construction of additions to existing gathering, compression and processing systems. The construction of a new gathering system or pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding additional horsepower or pump stations or by adding a second pipeline within an existing right of way, and the construction of new processing facilities, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, or at all, or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For example, the construction of gathering facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our estimates. Generally, we may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. As a result, there is the risk that new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. If we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy and our cash flows could be reduced. The construction of additions to our existing gathering assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way before constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then our cash flows could be reduced. We are exposed to the credit risk of our midstream customers, and nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could reduce our cash flows. We are subject to risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our midstream revenue. For 2005, two customers represented 46 percent of our total natural gas midstream revenues and 35 percent of our total consolidated revenues. Any nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could reduce our cash flows. Any reduction in the capacity of, or the allocations to, us in interconnecting third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes processed, which would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. We are dependent upon connections to third-party pipelines to receive and deliver residue gas and NGLs. Any reduction of capacities of these interconnecting pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in reduced volumes gathered and processed in our midstream facilities. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of residue gas and NGLs on interconnecting pipelines, our allocations in these pipelines would be reduced. Any reduction in volumes gathered and processed in our facilities would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our natural gas and NGLs, we periodically enter into natural gas and NGL price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedges are limited in duration, usually for periods of two years or less. However, in connection with acquisitions, sometimes our hedges are for longer periods. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile natural gas and NGL prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains if natural gas or NGL prices were to rise over the price established by the hedging arrangements. In trying to maintain an appropriate balance, we may end up hedging too much or too little, depending upon how natural gas or NGL prices fluctuate in the future. We cannot assure you that our hedging transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in natural gas or NGL prices. In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; 19 • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts natural gas or NGL prices. We account for our derivative transactions pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which requires us to record each hedging transaction as an asset or liability measured at its fair value. We must also measure the effectiveness of our hedging position in relation to the underlying commodity being hedged, and we will be required to record the ineffective portion of the hedge in our net income for that period. This accounting treatment could result in significant fluctuations in net income and partners’ capital from period to period. In addition, hedging transactions using derivative instruments involve basis risk. Basis risk in a hedging contract occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of production may have more or less variability than the regional price index used for the sale of that production. Our midstream business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our midstream operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compression, treating, processing and transportation of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. Our midstream operations are concentrated in Texas and Oklahoma, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our midstream business. We do not have property insurance on all of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our midstream business. Cantera Gas Company (“CGC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of PVR Midstream LLC, owns and operates an 11-mile interstate natural gas pipeline which, pursuant to the NGA, is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC. The FERC has granted CGC waivers of various requirements otherwise applicable to conventional FERC-jurisdictional pipelines, including the obligation to file a tariff governing rates, terms and conditions of open access transportation service. The FERC has determined that CGC will have to comply with the filing requirements if the natural gas company ever desires to apply for blanket transportation authority to transport third-party gas on the 11-mile pipeline. We cannot assure you that the FERC will maintain these waivers. Our natural gas gathering facilities generally are exempt from the FERC’s jurisdiction under the NGA, but FERC regulation nevertheless could significantly affect our gathering business and the market for our services. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines into which our gathering pipelines deliver. However, we cannot assure you that the FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. In Texas, our gathering facilities are subject to regulation by the Texas Railroad Commission, which has the authority to ensure that rates, terms and conditions of gas utilities, including certain gathering facilities, are just and reasonable and not discriminatory. Our operations in Oklahoma are regulated by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission, which prohibits us from charging any unduly discriminatory fees for our gathering services. We cannot predict whether our gathering rates will be found to be unjust, unreasonable or unduly discriminatory. We are subject to ratable take and common purchaser statutes in Texas and Oklahoma. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. 20 These statutes have the effect of restricting our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states, and Texas and Oklahoma have adopted complaint-based regulation that generally allows natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering rates and access. We cannot assure you that federal and state authorities will retain their current regulatory policies in the future. Texas and Oklahoma administer federal pipeline safety standards under the NGPSA, which requires certain pipelines to comply with safety standards in constructing and operating the pipelines, and subjects pipelines to regular inspections. In response to recent pipeline accidents, Congress and the U.S. Department of Transportation have recently instituted heightened pipeline safety requirements. Certain of our gathering facilities are exempt from these federal pipeline safety requirements under the rural gathering exemption. We cannot assure you that the rural gathering exemption will be retained in its current form in the future. Failure to comply with applicable regulations under the NGA, the NGPSA and certain state laws can result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal remedies. Our midstream business is subject to extensive environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of our gathering systems, plants and other facilities are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions and discharge of wastes from our facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by Cantera or locations to which it has sent wastes for disposal. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we dispose of substances, requiring pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our midstream business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our midstream operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and Cantera’s prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made. Risks Related to our Structure The Partnership and the Operating Company depend on distributions from operating subsidiaries to service their debt obligations. The Partnership is a holding company with no material operations. The Operating Company holds significant assets, including the equity interests in our principal subsidiaries, Fieldcrest Resources LLC, K Rail LLC, Loadout LLC, PVR Midstream LLC, Suncrest Resources LLC and Wise LLC. If we do not receive cash distributions from our operating subsidiaries, we will not be able to meet our debt service obligations. Our operating subsidiaries may from time to time incur additional indebtedness under agreements that contain restrictions which could further limit each operating subsidiary’s ability to make distributions to us. 21 Penn Virginia and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit them to favor their own interests to your detriment. Penn Virginia and its affiliates own an aggregate 37 percent limited partner interest in the Partnership and own and control our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between Penn Virginia and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of the unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • Some officers of Penn Virginia, who provide services to us, also devote significant time to the businesses of Penn Virginia and are compensated by Penn Virginia for the services they provide. • Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Penn Virginia to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Penn Virginia’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the shareholders of Penn Virginia. • Penn Virginia and its affiliates may engage in limited competition with us. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Penn Virginia, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to the unitholders. • Our general partner may limit its liability and reduce its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Any purchase of units is deemed to consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional limited partner interests and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by Penn Virginia and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay our general partner or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Unitholders have less ability to elect or remove management or effect a change of control than holders of common stock in a corporation. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights and therefore limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or its board of directors and have no right to elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by Penn Virginia. In addition to the fiduciary duty our general partner has to manage our partnership in a manner beneficial to us and the unitholders, the directors of our general partner also have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Penn Virginia. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner. First, our general partner generally may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding units voting together as a single class. Because our general partner and its affiliates control approximately 37 percent of all the units, our general partner currently cannot be removed without the consent of our general partner and its affiliates. Additionally, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units which would otherwise have continued until we met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud, gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. 22 Furthermore, unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates and their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Finally, Peabody has a change of control repurchase right as a result of our acquisition of certain coal reserves of Peabody in December 2002. For as long as either of our leases with Peabody relating to the coal reserves purchased in the acquisition is in effect, Peabody has the right, upon a change in control (as defined in the purchase agreement executed in connection with the acquisition) of us, Penn Virginia or our general partner, to purchase all of the reserves and other related assets that they sold to us, to the extent those assets are then owned by us, at a price to be agreed upon at that time or, if we are unable to agree, at the fair market value as determined based on the average valuations of three designated investment banks. Any or all of these provisions may discourage a person or group from attempting to remove our general partner or otherwise change our management or effect a change of control. As a result of these provisions, the price at which the common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of our general partner from transferring its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of our general partner, for expenses they incur on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to you. Our general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. Our general partner’s absolute discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time persons other than our general partner and its affiliates do not own more than 20 percent of the common units then outstanding, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may therefore not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of units. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder actions constitute control of our business. Under Delaware law, a unitholder could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right of unitholders to remove our general partner or to take other action under the partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. 23 In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The IRS could treat us as a corporation for tax purposes, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to you. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were classified as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and would likely pay state income taxes at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again to you as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the after-tax return to you, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Moreover, treatment of us as a corporation would materially and adversely affect our ability to make payments on our debt securities. Current law may change so as to cause us to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be decreased to reflect the impact of that law on us. You may be required to pay taxes even if you do not receive any cash distributions. You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from your share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of common units could be different than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a common unit, which decreased your tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the common unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that common unit, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to you. Should the IRS successfully contest some positions we take, you could recognize more gain on the sale of units than would be the case under those positions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. Also, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), regulated investment companies (known as mutual funds) and foreign persons raises issues unique to them. For example, a significant amount of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Regulated investment companies are subject to certain asset diversification tests and are limited in the amount that they may invest in the Partnership. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest effective U.S. federal income tax rate for individuals, and foreign persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. 24 We are registered as a tax shelter. This may increase the risk of an IRS audit of us or a unitholder. We are registered with the IRS as a “tax shelter.” Our tax shelter registration number is 01309000001. The IRS requires that some types of entities, including some partnerships, register as “tax shelters” in response to the perception that they claim tax benefits that the IRS may believe to be unwarranted. As a result, we may be audited by the IRS and tax adjustments could be made. Any unitholder owning less than a one percent profits interest in us has very limited rights to participate in the income tax audit process. Further, any adjustments in our tax returns will lead to adjustments in our unitholders’ tax returns and may lead to audits of unitholders’ tax returns and adjustments of items unrelated to us. You will bear the cost of any expense incurred in connection with an examination of your personal tax return. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that do not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. You will likely be subject to state and local taxes in states where you do not live as a result of an investment in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if you do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments We received no written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act within 180 days before the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. 25 