Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, results of operations and financial condition may encounter risks in addition to those described in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely impair or offset our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our operations under the Amended Continental CPA may not be profitable considering impact of low escalation adjustment to the fixed block hour rates compared to living adjustments for our labor work groups. We amended and restated the Original Continental CPA on June 5, 2008, which became the Amended Continental CPA. The amendment became effective on July 1, 2008. In contrast to the Original Continental CPA in effect before the amendments, which had provided for us to earn a 10% margin on our expenses incurred flying as a regional carrier for Continental; the Amended Continental CPA now has fixed block hour rates, which are subject to an annual adjustment tied to a consumer price index (capped at 3.5% per annum). Under the Amended Continental CPA, there is no downward limit for the annual adjustment therefore, in prolonged deflationary periods, the annual adjustment can be a negative percentage. The rates under the Amended Continental CPA are considerably lower than the pre-amendment rates and will result in lower overall revenues. At this time, it is difficult to quantify the overall financial impact of the changes because the pre- and post-amendment agreements are substantially different, including with respect to the services covered. Our results will depend, in part, on the utilization of our aircraft and the successful reduction of operating costs. We originally derived significant amounts of revenue from the reimbursement, plus the 10% margin, for aircraft rent, fuel and other expenses. Those expenses, and the corresponding revenue, will no longer be reflected on our financial statements as they will be incurred directly by Continental. Moreover, the rates we earn will be fixed, except for certain costs that will continue to be trued-up with no margins, such as property taxes, sales and use taxes and landing fees and not tied to our expenses; consequently, we could be unprofitable if we do not manage our costs effectively. We would need to aggressively reduce managed expenses under the agreement if aircraft are removed from service and returned to Continental. Table of Contents We remain dependent on Continental for the majority of our revenue and cash flows. For substantially all of 2009, we operated approximately 88% of our fleet under the Amended Continental CPA and continue to rely heavily on the financial and operational stability of Continental. The domestic airline environment in the United States continues to be extremely challenging for all carriers and Continental experienced a loss for the full year of 2009. Continental has indicated that its own business and financial results are subject to a number of risk factors, many of which are uncontrollable, including the amount of debt it carries, volatile fuel prices, delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries, its high labor and pension costs, service interruptions at one of its hub airports, disruptions to the operations of any of its regional operators, disruptions in its computer systems, and industry conditions, including the airline pricing environment, an economic downturn in the U.S. and global economies, industry capacity decisions, industry consolidation, terrorist attacks, regulatory matters, excessive taxation, the availability and cost of insurance, public health threats and the seasonal nature of the airline business. We cannot predict the future impact of these factors on Continental. Moreover, changes in fare structures (most importantly in relation to business fares), booking patterns, low-cost competitor growth, customers’ direct booking on the internet, volatile fuel prices, competitors emerging from bankruptcies with reduced cost structures, rumored industry consolidation and other changes in the industry cannot be predicted at this time, but could have a material adverse effect on both Continental’s and our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our Amended Continental CPA could be terminated. For substantially all of 2009, we operated 214 aircraft for Continental under the Amended Continental CPA. Continental retains the right to reduce the number of aircraft to a minimum of 190 aircraft at any time during the remainder of the initial term ending on June 30, 2015. Additionally, Continental can also terminate the agreement: • for cause, at any time without giving us notice or an opportunity to cure; • at any time upon our material breach that does not constitute cause, including our failure to complete a specified percentage of our scheduled flights, if the breach continues for 90 days after we receive notice of the breach; • at any time, upon two business days notice, and with no opportunity to cure, if Continental reasonably and in good faith determines, using recognized standards of safety, that there is a material safety concern with our operation of any flights under the agreement; and • at any time, without giving us notice or an opportunity to cure, if a change of control occurs as described in “—Continental Capacity Purchase and Other Agreements”. We could lose access to our aircraft, facilities and regulatory authorizations if the Amended Continental CPA were terminated. We currently lease or sublease all of our aircraft from Continental. If Continental terminated the Amended Continental CPA for cause, it would have the right to terminate our leases and subleases for aircraft operated for Continental under the agreement at the time of termination. Additionally, if Continental’s financial condition deteriorated and it filed for bankruptcy protection, it would have the ability to reject the leases or subleases on our aircraft. There can be no assurance that Continental will have sufficient liquidity to fund its future operations and other financial obligations, especially in the event additional adverse factors beyond its control occur, such as declining passenger revenue mix from global economic recessions, volatile fuel prices, terrorist attacks or adverse regulatory rulings. Table of Contents Additionally, if the Amended Continental CPA were terminated for any reason, including termination at the end of its term on June 30, 2015, we could lose access to some or substantially all of our airport facilities and other services that Continental currently provides to us, as well as our take-off and landing slots and route authorities. Continental leases most of the airport facilities that we use. We could be required to vacate the terminal facilities (or all facilities if the termination resulted from our material breach of the Amended Continental CPA) that are subleased to us by Continental, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to assign to Continental or its designee any lease in our name where we fly for Continental. Consequently, to offer commercial airline services in the same markets, we would have to arrange to use the same or other airport facilities, take-off or landing slots, route authorities and other regulatory authorizations used for scheduled flights at potentially higher rates. In such event, we might not be able to gain appropriate access to airport facilities, slots or other authorizations at economically viable prices or at all. We may be responsible for additional taxes as a result of our tax agreement with Continental. Holdings has a tax agreement with Continental that provides, among other things, for payments to Continental of all or a significant portion of the tax benefits realized as a result of an internal reorganization done prior to Holdings initial public offering in 2002. Since that time, Holdings has made net payments of approximately $122.5 million to Continental under the agreement and could pay Continental additional amounts through 2017. Payments would be conditional on achieving taxable income and the ability to utilize tax benefits as allowed. Refer to Note 8, “Income Taxes,” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of income taxes, including the tax agreement with Continental. If it were determined, as a result of an income tax audit or examination, that a significant amount of these tax benefits should not have been available, thus requiring us to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties to one or more tax authorities, and if at that time Continental were unable to indemnify Holdings for these amounts as contemplated in the tax agreement, then Holdings could be responsible for such tax payments, interest and penalties. Our operations under the United Express Agreement may not be profitable. We agreed to absorb certain expenses and make certain short-term rate adjustments associated with the transition of our aircraft into the United Express Agreement. The foregoing includes expense related items such as painting the aircraft, interior refurbishments and a temporary mark-up discount through June 2010. Our United Express Agreement could be terminated. The United Express Agreement is subject to early termination in various circumstances including: • if Airlines or United fails to fulfill an obligation under the United Express Agreement for a period of 30 days after written notice to cure; • if Airlines' operations fall below certain performance levels for a period of three consecutive months for a period of three months within a six month period: • subject to limitations imposed by the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the other party becomes insolvent, fails to pay its debts when due, takes action leading to its cessation as a going concern, makes an assignment of substantially all of its assets, or ceases or suspends operations; • if bankruptcy proceedings are commenced against the other party (subject to limitations imposed by the U.S. Bankruptcy Code) and certain specified conditions are not satisfied; or • if Airlines operates, subject to certain exceptions, any additional regional jets to a marketing or code-share relationship with any party other than United or Continental to provide hub service at United's hubs in Chicago (O'Hare), Denver, Los Angeles (LAX), San Francisco, Seattle/Tacoma, or Washington, D.C. (Dulles International Airport). Table of Contents Exercise of the Warrant issued to United could significantly dilute our current stockholders. In connection with the United Express Agreement, we entered into an agreement with United which permits United to purchase up to 2.7 million shares of common stock with an exercise price of $0.01 per share of common stock. The exercise of the rights under this agreement by United will significantly change the ownership of our current stockholders. In addition, the fair value of the warrant will be reflected in our financial statements as a reduction of passenger revenues over the life of the United Express Agreement, thereby negatively impacting the expected operating results of our Contract Flying segment. Our Corporate Aviation (charter) operations and other aviation services may affect our ability to operate profitably. The aircraft transitioned in 2006 from the Original Continental CPA and in 2008 from our Branded Flying operation to our Corporate Aviation (charter) division have been unprofitable to date. Currently, the 38 aircraft deployed outside of the Continental Express operations and the associated risks relate to approximately 16% of our fleet; however, if the Amended Continental CPA were terminated, our fleet could be significantly reduced or these risks could extend across our entire fleet. The risks affecting our Corporate Aviation (charter) operations include: • our ability to create a profitable recognized brand and attract frequent group travelers; • the condition of the U.S. economy, including a prolonged global economic recession; • competitive responses from other charter operators and aviation service providers; and • our ability to obtain and finance any fleet expansion at acceptable rates of return. We may experience cost pressure as our labor force becomes more senior, and if attrition increases, we may not be able to replace our current workforce with candidates that meet our high recruiting and training standards. Labor costs, including medical and workers compensation costs, constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs, and wage rates, in general, are increasing due to cost of living adjustments within our collective bargaining agreements. In an effort to return to profitability, we reduced our work force significantly and obtained wage and salary concessions from each of our employee groups. As a result, our employees may elect to seek other employment opportunities, thereby increasing our recruiting and training costs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to find qualified personnel to fill any vacancies that may arise in the future. As our workforce matures, we may not be able to sustain the impact of the resulting higher wage rates if competition or other economic conditions do not permit us to achieve necessary revenues. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms. Approximately 73% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We are currently in negotiations with our dispatchers and mechanics whose contracts became amendable in 2009. We will begin negotiations with our flight attendants and pilots as their contracts become amendable in 2010. Deterioration in our labor relationships could significantly impact our operations and financial results. Our contract with our production workers does not have a term but salaries are typically renegotiated each year. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms. Table of Contents Amendments to the terms of the convertible notes increased our obligations and put our assets at risk. In August 2008, we commenced a repurchase offer for the 4.25% convertible notes due 2023 (the “Original 4.25% Convertible Notes due 2023”) and provide written notice to the trustee of our intention to pay the repurchase price wholly in shares of our common stock (the “Notes Exchange Offer”). As a result and pursuant to the terms of the exchange offer, the Company issued 16,382,498 shares (reverse split adjusted) of common stock in payment of the repurchase price for the $59.7 million principal amount of the Original 4.25% Convertible Notes due 2023 validly tendered and to settle accrued and unpaid interest due August 1, 2008. Following the completion of the Notes Exchange Offer, $68.5 million aggregate principal of the Original 4.25% Convertible Notes due 2023 remained outstanding. As previously disclosed, we have unilaterally amended the indenture governing the Original 4.25% Convertible Notes due 2023 in order to provide improved terms and additional flexibility for the note holders remaining after the exchange offer, including: • The obligations under the remaining notes are secured with a pro-rata portion (based on the portion that the remaining notes represent of the total convertible notes that were issued) of assets with an appraised value of approximately as of December 31, 2009 of $74.8 million, including approximately $39.5 million in spare parts and $35.3 million of spare engines; • the interest rate on the remaining notes was increased from 4.25% to 11.25% over the remaining note term; and • the noteholders have an additional put right on August 1, 2011. Noteholders of record on August 2, 2008, automatically began to receive the benefits of the supplemental indenture that become effective the same day. From August 2, 2008 forward, the notes are referred to as the “11.25% Convertible Secured Notes due 2023”. The terms of the 11.25% Convertible Secured Notes due 2023 could adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the notes and our other contractual and commercial commitments. The amendments also increased the cash required to service the interest on the notes. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may be required to take actions such as curtailing our business activities, reducing capital expenditures, selling assets, incurring additional debt or seeking bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to accomplish any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, if we are unable to repay our obligations under the notes, the trustee could seek to foreclose on the assets securing the notes. As of December 31, 2009, $52.1 million of our 11.25% Convertible Secured Notes due 2023 remain outstanding. Conversion of our convertible notes could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. On August 1, 2011, holders of our outstanding 11.25% Convertible Secured Notes due 2023 may require us to repurchase their notes. We may pay the repurchase price in cash or in stock. The conversion of some or all of our 11.25% Convertible Secured Notes due 2023 would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could further depress the price of our common stock. Finally, if we do not continue to meet the listing standards with the NYSE, we could be subject to delisting, which would constitute a default under our 11.25% Convertible Secured Notes due 2023 and could result in the obligation to repay the notes in cash at par. There is currently $52.1 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 11.25% Convertible Secured Notes due 2023. Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain all of the parts or related support services we expect from Embraer to operate our aircraft. We operate a single fleet type produced by a single manufacturer; consequently, our operations could be materially adversely affected by: • Embraer’s inability to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis -- especially in light of its announcement to cease the production of our current fleet type; • the issuance of FAA directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Embraer regional jets or parts; • unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements; or • force majeure events that prevent Embraer from performing under the lease agreement. Conversely, if we choose to operate another aircraft type in the future, for a time we will not have the maintenance expertise we have acquired with our current fleet, training costs would increase, and parts and inventory costs would rise. Maintenance costs will likely increase as the average age of our fleet increases. As the average age of our fleet increases, our aircraft maintenance costs will likely increase. We perform routine inspection and maintenance of our aircraft engines and airframes at intervals required by the FAA. Additionally, under the Rolls Agreement, we are charged a fixed rate based on flight hours incurred during a month. The rates are subject to annual revisions based on specified labor and material indices. We also have power-by-the-hour agreements with other vendors to cover various components and systems on our aircraft. Our average maintenance costs under these agreements could increase and adversely impact our results of operations. We may also incur increased maintenance costs if we have to address any new FAA or Embraer maintenance directives. For the majority of our aircraft not covered in the Amended Continental CPA, we expect to incur unreimbursable costs related to the replacement of certain life-limited parts, primarily engine parts, in the near future as these parts approach their cycle limits. Reductions in insurance coverage or increases in rates could adversely impact our operations and financial results. The terrorist attacks of 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums, as well as a decrease in the coverage available to commercial air carriers. We carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and damage to our aircraft. The Homeland Security Act of 2002 currently requires the federal government to provide third party, passenger, and hull war-risk insurance coverage to commercial air carriers through August 31, 2010. If any of our insurance programs terminated, the Company would likely face a material increase in the cost of war-risk insurance. Consolidations in our industry can adversely impact our current business strategy. There have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the U.S airline industry since its deregulation in 1978, and there may be additional mergers and acquisitions in the future. Any airline industry consolidation could substantially alter the competitive landscape and may result in changes in our business strategy. Consolidation involving legacy carriers in our industry could, in the long run, result in the reduction of capacity for network-feed services to be provided by the regional carriers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Table of Contents Our cost structure may not be competitive with some of our competitors. Our costs are mainly driven by the flight schedule determined by Continental, Continental’s own cost structure or factors that are outside our control, or in some instances even Continental’s control (such as aircraft rent, fuel, insurance and property taxes). As a significant portion of our costs are wages that are contractually agreed with our labor work groups, we may not be able to restructure our costs effectively to compete with other carriers. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and we may incur additional costs to comply with such regulations. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation. As evidenced by the enactment of the ATSA, airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that can or may result in significant costs. The FAA and other governmental agencies such as the EPA from time to time issue directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. Some requirements cover, among other things, excessive tarmac delays, security measures, collision avoidance systems, potable water standards, noise abatement and other environmental matters, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures conducted on older aircraft. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with these regulations. In addition, if any of these regulations, including the new rule adopted by the DOT limiting airline tarmac delays, caused us to cancel flights, it would result in a reduction in our revenue. Other regulatory actions that may be taken in the future by the U.S. government to address climate change or limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation sector are unknown at this time. Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. Such legislative or regulatory action by the U.S., state or foreign governments currently or in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges are proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. Such laws, taxes and regulations have affected all facets of our operations from security at airports, restrictions on landing, take-off, routes, restrictions on international routes (which can change suddenly depending on the current arrangements between the United States and the foreign governments), and increases in landing fees and other airport facility charges. We cannot be certain that current laws or regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect us. We may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including weather conditions and the availability and cost of fuel. As climate changes cause more severe weather occurrences, including periods of fog, icy conditions, storms, hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, our operations could be materially impacted if flights were significantly reduced. Under the Amended Continental CPA and the United Express Agreement, we are not fully protected against cancellations due to weather or air traffic control restrictions, which could adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Additionally, in operating our aircraft for other airlines or under charter contracts we may be exposed to the volatility of fuel prices. Both the cost and availability of fuel are subject to various economic and political factors and events occurring throughout the world. Significant changes or extended periods of high fuel cost or fuel supply disruptions could materially affect our operating results. Our ability to pass on increased fuel costs through contract pricing is limited by several factors, including economic and competitive conditions. Additionally, under the Amended Continental CPA and the United Express Agreement, if the unavailability of fuel caused us to cancel flights, our incentive revenue would be reduced. The cost and availability of adequate supplies of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our financial condition in the future. Table of Contents Our reliance on technology and the technology of our operating partners could be harmful in the event of system failure. We rely heavily on automated systems and technology to operate our business, including flight operations and telecommunications. Any disruptions in these systems or the systems of our operating partners due to internal failures of technology or external interruptions, such as power outages, could result in the loss of critical data and/or cancellation of flights and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected as a result of an aviation accident. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service, as well as significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. In the event of an accident, our liability insurance may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from the accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm operational and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident could create a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC’s staff as of the date of this filing. 