Item 1A Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as described below. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us The amount of cash that we will be able to distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our coal and natural gas midstream businesses. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, we must pay our general partner’s expenses and set aside any cash reserve amounts before making a distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash that we will be able to 16 Table of Contents distribute each quarter to our partners principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our coal and natural gas midstream businesses. The amount of cash we will generate will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of coal our lessees are able to produce; • the price at which our lessees are able to sell the coal; • the lessees’ timely receipt of payment from their customers; • the amount of natural gas transported in our gathering systems; • the amount of throughput in our processing plants; • the price of natural gas; • the price of NGLs; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our midstream services; and • our hedging activities. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner in its sole discretion for the proper conduct of our business. Because of these factors, we may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying distributions at their current level or at all. You should also be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record profits. While we may incur debt to pay distributions to our unitholders, the agreements governing such debt may restrict or limit the distributions we can pay to our unitholders. While we are permitted by our partnership agreements to incur debt to pay distributions to our unitholders, our payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness will reduce our cash available for distribution on our unitholders. Furthermore, our debt agreements, including our revolving credit facility and senior notes, contain covenants limiting our ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, engage in transactions with affiliates and make distributions to its partners. They also contain covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. We are prohibited from making any distribution to our partners if such distribution would cause an event of default or otherwise violate a covenant under these agreements. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Long-Term Debt,” for more information about our revolving credit facility and senior notes. 17 Table of Contents Our unitholders do not elect our general partner or vote on our general partner’s directors. The owner of our general partner owns a sufficient number of units to allow it to prevent the removal of our general partner. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders do not have the ability to elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis in the future. The board of directors of our general partner, including our independent directors, is chosen by PVG, its sole member. Furthermore, if our public unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding units. Because PVG owns more than one-third of our outstanding units, our general partner currently cannot be removed without its consent. As a result of these provisions, the price at which our common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our general partner may cause us to issue additional common units or other equity securities without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. Our general partner may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with the common units, without unitholder approval. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; and • the market price of the common units may decline. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party who could replace our current management team, in either case, without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, PVG, the owner of our general partner, may transfer its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. You may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. Under Delaware law, you could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right or the exercise of the right by our unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to the partnership agreement or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business. Additionally, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the liabilities of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions. Furthermore, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Our partnership agreement restricts the rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our unitholders’ voting rights are restricted by the provision in our partnership agreement generally providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other 18 Table of Contents than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of the general partner, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. As a result, the price at which our common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. We may issue additional limited partner interests or other equity securities, which may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase our cash distribution level. We have wide latitude to issue additional limited partner interests on the terms and conditions established by our general partner. If we have to pay distributions on additional limited partner interests, we may not be able to maintain or increase our quarterly cash distribution per unit. Risks Related to Our Coal Business If our lessees do not manage their operations well, their production volumes and our coal royalty revenues could decrease. We depend on our lessees to effectively manage their operations on our properties. Our lessees make their own business decisions with respect to their operations, including decisions relating to: • the method of mining; • credit review of their customers; • marketing of the coal mined; • coal transportation arrangements; • negotiations with unions; • employee wages; • permitting; • surety bonding; and • mine closure and reclamation. If our lessees do not manage their operations well, their production could be reduced, which would result in lower coal royalty revenues to us and could adversely affect our ability to make our quarterly distributions. The coal mining operations of our lessees are subject to numerous operational risks that could result in lower coal royalty revenues. Our coal royalty revenues are largely dependent on the level of production from our coal reserves achieved by our lessees. The level of our lessees’ production is subject to operating conditions or events that may increase our lessees’ cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines for varying lengths of time and that are beyond their or our control, including: • the inability to acquire necessary permits; • changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • changes in governmental regulation of the coal industry; • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • adverse claims to title or existing defects of title; 19 Table of Contents • interruptions due to power outages; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; • labor-related interruptions; • employee injuries or fatalities; and • fires and explosions. Any interruptions to the production of coal from our reserves could reduce our coal royalty revenues and adversely affect our ability to make our quarterly distributions. In addition, our coal royalty revenues are based upon sales of coal by our lessees to their customers. If our lessees do not receive payments for delivered coal on a timely basis from their customers, their cash flow would be adversely affected, which could cause our cash flow to be adversely affected and could adversely affect our ability to make our quarterly distributions. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could reduce our coal royalty revenues and the value of our coal reserves. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices from recent levels could have a material adverse effect on our lessees’ operations and on the quantities of coal that may be economically produced from our properties. This, in turn, could reduce our coal royalty revenues, our coal services revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Additionally, volatility in coal prices could make it difficult to estimate with precision the value of our coal reserves and any coal reserves that we may consider for acquisition. We depend on a limited number of primary operators for a significant portion of our coal royalty revenues and the loss of or reduction in production from any of our major lessees could reduce our coal royalty revenues. We depend on a limited number of primary operators for a significant portion of our coal royalty revenues. During 2006, five primary operators, each with multiple leases, accounted for 78% of our coal royalty revenues and 12% of our total consolidated revenues. If any of these operators enters bankruptcy or decide to cease operations or significantly reduce its production, our coal royalty revenues could be reduced. A failure on the part of our lessees to make coal royalty payments could give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the property or obtain liquidation damages and/or enforce payment obligations under the lease. If we repossessed any of our properties, we would seek to find a replacement lessee. We may not be able to find a replacement lessee and, if we find a replacement lessee, we may not be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the outgoing lessee could be subject to bankruptcy proceedings that could further delay the execution of a new lease or the assignment of the existing lease to another operator. If we enter into a new lease, the replacement operator might not achieve the same levels of production or sell coal at the same price as the lessee it replaced. In addition, it may be difficult for us to secure new or replacement lessees for small or isolated coal reserves, since industry trends toward consolidation favor larger-scale, higher technology mining operations to increase productivity rates. Our coal business will be adversely affected if we are unable to replace or increase our coal reserves through acquisitions. Because our reserves decline as our lessees mine our coal, our future success and growth depends, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. If we are unable to negotiate purchase contracts to replace or increase our coal reserves on acceptable terms, our coal royalty revenues will decline as our coal reserves are depleted. In addition, if we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties we are able to acquire, our coal royalty revenues may decline and we could, therefore, experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we acquire additional coal reserves, there is a possibility that any acquisition could be dilutive to earnings and reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders or to pay interest on, or the principal of, our debt obligations. Any debt we incur to finance an acquisition may similarly affect our ability to make distributions to unitholders or to 20 Table of Contents pay interest on, or the principal of, our debt obligations. Our ability to make acquisitions in the future also could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates. Lessees could satisfy obligations to their customers with coal from properties other than ours, depriving us of the ability to receive amounts in excess of the minimum royalty payments. We do not control our lessees’ business operations. Our lessees’ customer supply contracts do not generally require our lessees to satisfy their obligations to their customers with coal mined from our reserves. Several factors may influence a lessee’s decision to supply its customers with coal mined from properties we do not own or lease, including the royalty rates under the lessee’s lease with us, mining conditions, transportation costs and availability and customer coal specifications. If a lessee satisfies its obligations to its customers with coal from properties we do not own or lease, production under our lease will decrease, and we will receive lower coal royalty revenues. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce the production of coal mined from our properties. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for the customers of our lessees. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make coal produced by some or all of our lessees less competitive than coal produced from other sources. On the other hand, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition for our lessees from coal producers in other parts of the country. Our lessees depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to deliver coal to their customers. Disruption of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks and other events could temporarily impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers. Our lessees’ transportation providers may face difficulties in the future and impair the ability of our lessees to supply coal to their customers, thereby resulting in decreased coal royalty revenues to us. Our lessees could experience labor disruptions, and our lessees’ workforces could become increasingly unionized in the future. Two of our lessees each have one mine operated by unionized employees. One of these mines was our second largest mine on the basis of coal production as of December 31, 2006. All of our lessees could become increasingly unionized in the future. If some or all of our lessees’ non-unionized operations were to become unionized, it could adversely affect their productivity and increase the risk of work stoppages. In addition, our lessees’ operations may be adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies, particularly if union workers were to orchestrate boycotts against our lessees’ operations. Any further unionization of our lessees’ employees could adversely affect the stability of production from our reserves and reduce our coal royalty revenues. Our coal reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may be inaccurate, which could materially adversely affect the quantities and value of our coal reserves. Our estimates of our coal reserves may vary substantially from the actual amounts of coal our lessees may be able to economically recover. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: • geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data; • the amount of ultimately recoverable coal in the ground; • the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and 21 Table of Contents • future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes and development and reclamation costs. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our coal reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the coal reserve data provided by us. Any change in fuel consumption patterns by electric power generators away from the use of coal could affect the ability of our lessees to sell the coal they produce and thereby reduce our coal royalty revenues. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, domestic electric power generation accounts for approximately 90% of domestic coal consumption. The amount of coal consumed for domestic electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants such as nuclear, natural gas, fuel oil and hydroelectric power and environmental and other governmental regulations. We believe that most new power plants will be built to produce electricity during peak periods of demand. Many of these new power plants will likely be fired by natural gas because of lower construction costs compared to coal-fired plants and because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel. The increasingly stringent requirements of the Clean Air Act may result in more electric power generators shifting from coal to natural gas-fired power plants. See Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters—Coal Segment—Air Emissions.” Extensive environmental laws and regulations affecting electric power generators could have corresponding effects on the ability of our lessees to sell the coal they produce and thereby reduce our coal royalty revenues. Federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the ultimate consumers of the coal our lessees produce. These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures. There is also continuing pressure on state and federal regulators to impose limits on carbon dioxide emissions from electric power plants, particularly coal-fired power plants. As a result of these current and proposed laws, regulations and trends, electricity generators may elect to switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions, possibly further reducing demand for the coal that our lessees produce and thereby reducing our coal royalty revenues. See Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters—Coal Segment—Air Emissions.” Delays in our lessees obtaining mining permits and approvals, or the inability to obtain required permits and approvals, could have an adverse effect on our coal royalty revenues. Mine operators, including our lessees, must obtain numerous permits and approvals that impose strict conditions and obligations relating to various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining. The permitting rules are complex and can change over time. The public has the right to comment on permit applications and otherwise participate in the permitting process, including through court intervention. Accordingly, permits required by our lessees to conduct operations may not be issued, maintained or renewed, or may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our lessees’ ability to economically conduct their mining operations. Limitations on our lessees’ ability to conduct their mining operations due to the inability to obtain or renew necessary permits could have an adverse effect on our coal royalty revenues. See Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters—Coal Segment—Mining Permits and Approvals.” Our lessees’ mining operations are subject to extensive and costly laws and regulations, which could increase operating costs and limit our lessees’ ability to produce coal, which could have an adverse effect on our coal royalty revenues. Our lessees are subject to numerous and detailed federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting coal mining operations, including laws and regulations pertaining to employee health and safety, permitting and 22 Table of Contents licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. Our lessees are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be significant and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new laws or regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may be adopted in the future that could materially affect our lessees’ mining operations, either through direct impacts such as new requirements impacting our lessees’ existing mining operations, or indirect impacts such as new laws and regulations that discourage or limit coal consumers’ use of coal. Any of these direct or indirect impacts could have an adverse effect on our coal royalty revenues. See Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters—Coal Segment.” Because of extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, violations during mining operations are not unusual in the industry and, notwithstanding compliance efforts, we do not believe violations by our lessees can be eliminated completely. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and, to a lesser extent, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. Our lessees may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from their operations. If our lessees are required to pay these costs and liabilities and if their financial viability is affected by doing so, then their mining operations and, as a result, our coal royalty revenues and our ability to make distributions, could be adversely affected. Recent mining accidents in West Virginia and Kentucky have received national attention and instigated responses at the state and national level that are likely to result in increased scrutiny of current safety practices and procedures at all mining operations, particularly underground mining operations. See Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters—Coal Segment—Mine Health and Safety Laws,” for a more detailed discussion of recently enacted legislation that addresses mine safety equipment, training and emergency reporting requirements. Implementing and complying with these new laws and regulations could adversely affect our lessees’ coal production and could therefore have an adverse affect on our coal royalty revenues and our ability to make distributions. Risks Related to our Natural Gas Midstream Business The success of our natural gas midstream business depends upon our ability to find and contract for new sources of natural gas supply. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and asset utilization rates at our processing plants, we must contract for new natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas to our gathering systems include the level of drilling activity creating new gas supply near our gathering systems, our success in contracting for existing natural gas supplies that are not committed to other systems and our ability to expand and increase the capacity of our systems. We may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells and the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. 23 Table of Contents Our midstream assets, including our gathering systems and processing plants, are connected to natural gas reserves and wells for which the production will naturally decline over time. Our cash flows associated with these systems will decline unless we are able to access new supplies of natural gas by connecting additional production to these systems. A material decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operation, as a result of depressed commodity prices or otherwise, would result in a decline in the volume of natural gas we handle, which would reduce our revenues and operating income. In addition, our future growth will depend, in part, upon whether we can contract for additional supplies at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. The profitability of our natural gas midstream business is dependent upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond our control and have been volatile. We are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices. During 2006, we generated a majority of our gross margin from two types of contractual arrangements under which our margin is exposed to increases and decreases in the price of natural gas and NGLs—percentage-of-proceeds and keep-whole arrangements. See Item 1, “Business—Contracts—Natural Gas Midstream Segment.” Virtually all of the natural gas gathered on our Crescent System and Hamlin System is contracted under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements. The natural gas gathered on our Beaver System is contracted primarily under either percentage-of proceeds or gas purchase/keep-whole arrangements. Under both types of arrangements, we provide gathering and processing services for natural gas received. Under percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, we generally sell the NGLs produced from the processing operations and the remaining residue gas at market prices and remit to the producers an agreed upon percentage of the proceeds based upon an index price for the gas and the price received for the NGLs. Under these percentage-of-proceeds arrangements, revenues and gross margins decline when natural gas prices and NGL prices decrease. Accordingly, a decrease in the price of natural gas or NGLs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under gas purchase/keep-whole arrangements, we generally buy natural gas from producers based upon an index price and then sell the NGLs and the remaining residue gas to third parties at market prices. Because the extraction of the NGLs from the natural gas during processing reduces the volume of natural gas available for sale, profitability is dependent on the value of those NGLs being higher than the value of the volume of gas reduction or “shrink.” Under these arrangements, revenues and gross margins decrease when the price of natural gas increases relative to the price of NGLs. Accordingly, a change in the relationship between the price of natural gas and the price of NGLs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. The markets and prices for residue gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions, and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Acquisitions and expansions may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of its indebtedness and contingent liabilities and increasing the risks of being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe compliment our existing operations. We may encounter difficulties integrating these acquisitions with our existing businesses without a 24 Table of Contents loss of employees or customers, a loss of revenues, an increase in operating or other costs or other difficulties. In addition, we may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, competitive advantages, cost savings or other benefits expected from these acquisitions. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. As a result, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly following an acquisition, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. Future acquisitions might not generate increases in our pro forma available cash per unit, and may not increase cash distributions to our unitholders. Expanding our natural gas midstream business by constructing new gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities subjects us to construction risks. One of the ways we may grow our midstream business is through the construction of additions to existing gathering, compression and processing systems. The construction of a new gathering system or pipeline, the expansion of an existing pipeline through the addition of new pipe or compression and the construction of new processing facilities involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, or at all, or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For example, the construction of gathering facilities requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our estimates. Generally, we may have only limited natural gas supplies committed to these facilities prior to their construction. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize. As a result, there is the risk that new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations and our ability to make distributions. If we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way or the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy and our cash flows could be reduced. The construction of additions to our existing gathering assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way before constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of obtaining new rights-of-way or renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then our cash flows could be reduced. We are exposed to the credit risk of our midstream customers, and nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could reduce our cash flows. We are subject to risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our midstream customers. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our midstream revenue. For 2006, two customers represented 49% of our total natural gas midstream revenues and 38% of our total consolidated revenues. Any nonpayment or nonperformance by our midstream customers could reduce our cash flows. Any reduction in the capacity of, or the allocations to, us in interconnecting third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes processed, which would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. We are dependent upon connections to third-party pipelines to receive and deliver residue gas and NGLs. Any reduction of capacities of these interconnecting pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in reduced volumes gathered and processed in our midstream facilities. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of residue gas and NGLs on interconnecting pipelines, our allocations in these pipelines would be reduced. Any reduction in volumes gathered and processed in our facilities would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow. 25 Table of Contents Natural gas hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our natural gas and NGLs, we periodically enter into natural gas and NGL price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. Our hedges are limited in duration, usually for periods of two years or less. However, in connection with acquisitions, sometimes our hedges are for longer periods. These transactions may limit our potential gains if natural gas or NGL prices were to rise over the price established by the hedging arrangements. In trying to maintain an appropriate balance, we may end up hedging too much or too little, depending upon how natural gas or NGL prices fluctuate in the future. Our hedging transactions may not reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in natural gas or NGL prices. In addition, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement; • the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts natural gas or NGL prices. In addition, hedging transactions using derivative instruments involve basis risk. Basis risk in a hedging contract occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of production may have more or less variability than the regional price index used for the sale of that production. Our natural gas midstream business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our midstream operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compression, treating, processing and transportation of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from construction and farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. Our midstream operations are concentrated in Texas and Oklahoma, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our midstream business. We do not have property insurance on all of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our natural gas midstream business. We own and operate an 11-mile interstate natural gas pipeline that, pursuant to the NGA, is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC. The FERC has granted us waivers of various requirements otherwise applicable to 26 Table of Contents conventional FERC-jurisdictional pipelines, including the obligation to file a tariff governing rates, terms and conditions of open access transportation service. The FERC has determined that we will have to comply with the filing requirements if the natural gas company ever desires to apply for blanket transportation authority to transport third-party gas on the 11-mile pipeline. The FERC may revoke these waivers at any time. Our natural gas gathering facilities generally are exempt from the FERC’s jurisdiction under the NGA, but FERC regulation nevertheless could significantly change and affect our gathering business and the market for our services. For a more detailed discussion of how regulatory measures affect our natural gas gathering systems, see Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters—Natural Gas Midstream Segment.” Failure to comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations can result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal remedies. Our natural gas midstream business is subject to extensive environmental regulation. Many of the operations and activities of our gathering systems, plants and other facilities are subject to significant federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These include, for example, laws and regulations that impose obligations related to air emissions and discharge of wastes from our facilities and the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by Cantera or locations to which it has sent wastes for disposal. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we dispose of substances, requiring pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our midstream business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our midstream operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal practices and Cantera’s prior use of natural gas flow meters containing mercury. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may incur material environmental costs and liabilities. Insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made. See Item 1, “Business—Government Regulation and Environmental Matters—Natural Gas Midstream Segment.” Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner has limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Penn Virginia and its affiliates, including PVG, own an approximately 42% limited partner interest in us and own and control our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates 27 Table of Contents (including Penn Virginia and PVG), on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Penn Virginia and PVG, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. • Our general partner may limit its liability and reduce its fiduciary duties under our partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing units, our unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. • Our partnership agreement gives our general partner broad discretion in establishing financial reserves for the proper conduct of our business. These reserves also will affect the amount of cash available for distribution. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. The fiduciary duties of our general partner’s officers and directors may conflict with those of PVG’s general partner, and our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner to us. Our general partner’s officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders and the owner of our general partner, PVG. However, half of our general partner’s directors and three of its five officers are also directors or officers of PVG’s general partner, which has fiduciary duties to manage the business of PVG in a manner beneficial to PVG and its unitholders, including Penn Virginia. Consequently, these directors and officers may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to us on the one hand, and PVG, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. In addition, our partnership agreement limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement also restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of our general partner’s fiduciary duties owed to unitholders. By purchasing our units, you are treated as having consented to various actions contemplated in the partnership agreement and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. We may face conflicts of interest in the allocation of administrative time among Penn Virginia’s business, PVG’s business and our business. Our general partner shares administrative personnel with Penn Virginia and PVG’s general partner to operate Penn Virginia’s business, PVG’s business and our business. Our general partner’s officers, who are also 28 Table of Contents the officers of PVG’s general partner and/or Penn Virginia, will have responsibility for overseeing the allocation of time spent by administrative personnel on our behalf and on behalf of PVG and/or Penn Virginia. These officers face conflicts regarding these time allocations that may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. It is unlikely that these allocations will be the result of arms-length negotiations among Penn Virginia, PVG’s general partner and our general partner. Our general partner has a call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time more than 80% of our outstanding units are owned by our general partner and its affiliates, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (x) the average of the daily closing prices of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (y) the highest price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90 day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your common units. Affiliates of our general partner currently own approximately 43% of our outstanding units. Our general partner may mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or grant a security interest in all or substantially all of our assets without prior approval of our unitholders. Our general partner may mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or grant a security interest in all or substantially all of our assets without prior approval of our unitholders. If our general partner at any time decided to incur debt and secures its obligations or indebtedness by all or substantially all of our assets, and if our general partner is unable to satisfy such obligations or repay such indebtedness, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. The lenders may also sell all or substantially all of our assets under such foreclosure or other realization upon those encumbrances without prior approval of our unitholders, which would adversely affect the price of our common units. Tax Risks to Our Common Unitholders If we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for federal or state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again to you as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in our anticipated cash flow, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Moreover, treatment of us as a corporation would materially and adversely affect our ability to make payments on our debt. Current law may change, causing us to be taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we will be subject to a new entity-level tax or the portion of our income that is generated in Texas beginning in our tax year that ends December 31, 2007. Imposition of such tax on us by Texas or any other state, will reduce our cash available for distribution to you. 29 Table of Contents Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions that we take, it may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the costs of any contest will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter that affects us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may disagree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. You may be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, you will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from the taxation of your share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to you, which decreased your tax basis in your common units, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the common units are sold at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to you. In addition, if you sell your common units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, a significant amount of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We are registered as a tax shelter. This may increase the risk of an IRS audit of us or a unitholder. We are registered with the IRS as a “tax shelter.” Our tax shelter registration number is 01309000001. The IRS requires that some types of entities, including some partnerships, register as “tax shelters” in response to the perception that they claim tax benefits that the IRS may believe to be unwarranted. As a result, we may be audited by the IRS and tax adjustments could be made. Any unitholder owning less than a 1% profits interest in 30 Table of Contents us has very limited rights to participate in the income tax audit process. Further, any adjustments in our tax returns will lead to adjustments in our unitholders’ tax returns and may lead to audits of unitholders’ tax returns and adjustments of items unrelated to us. You will bear the cost of any expense incurred in connection with an examination of your personal tax return. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have been terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. A sale or exchange would occur, for example, if we sold our business or merged with another company, or if any of our unitholders, including Penn Virginia, PVG or any of their affiliates, sold or transferred their partnership interests in us. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. You will likely be subject to state and local taxes in states where you do not live as a result of an investment in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of you. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments We received no written comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act within 180 days before the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. 31 Table of Contents 