Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors when evaluating our business. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR DEPENDENCE ON VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS If we fail to obtain renewals of one or more of our dealer agreements on favorable terms, if certain of our franchises are terminated, or if certain manufacturers’ rights under their agreements with us are triggered, our operations may be adversely affected. Each of our dealerships operates under the terms of a dealer agreement with the manufacturer (or manufacturer-authorized distributor) of each new vehicle brand it carries. Our dealerships may obtain new vehicles from manufacturers, sell new vehicles and display vehicle manufacturers’ trademarks only to the extent permitted under dealer agreements. As a result of the terms of our dealer agreements and our dependence on these franchise rights, manufacturers exercise a great deal of control over our day-to-day operations and the terms of our dealer agreements govern key aspects of our operations, acquisition strategy and capital spending. Most of our dealer agreements provide the manufacturer with the right to terminate the agreement or refuse to renew it after the expiration of the term of the agreement under specified circumstances. We cannot assure you we will be able to renew any of our existing dealer agreements or that we will be able to obtain renewals on favorable terms. Specifically, many of our dealer agreements provide that the manufacturer may terminate the agreement or direct us to divest the subject dealership if there is a change of control of the dealership. Some of our dealer agreements also provide the manufacturer with the right of first refusal to purchase from us any franchise we seek to sell. Provisions such as these may provide manufacturers with superior bargaining positions in the event that they seek to terminate our dealer agreements or renegotiate the agreements on terms that are disadvantageous to us. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected to the extent that our franchise rights become compromised or our operations restricted due to the terms of our dealer agreements or if we lose franchises representing a significant source of our revenues. In addition, we have agreements with Toyota which provide that in the event that our payment obligations under our Committed Credit Facility or our 9% Notes are accelerated or demand for payment is made under our subsidiaries’ guarantees of the Committed Credit Facility or our 9% Notes as a result of an event of default, Toyota will have the right to purchase our Toyota and Lexus dealerships for cash at their fair market value, unless the acceleration or demand is waived within a cure period of no less than 30 days after Toyota’s notification of its intent to exercise its right to purchase. If fair market value cannot be agreed by the parties, it will be determined by an independent nationally recognized and experienced appraiser. We also have an agreement with Ford that provides if any of the lenders of our Committed Credit Facility or floor plan facilities accelerate those payment obligations, or if we are notified of any default under our Committed Credit Facility, then Ford may exercise its right to acquire our Ford, Lincoln and Mercury dealerships for their fair market value. Our failure to meet manufacturer consumer satisfaction, financial or sales performance requirements may adversely affect our ability to acquire new dealerships and our profitability. Many manufacturers attempt to measure customers’ satisfaction with their experience in our sales and service departments through rating systems that are generally known in the automotive retailing industry as consumer satisfaction indexes (“CSI”). CSI ratings augment the ability of manufacturers to monitor the 19 financial and sales performance of dealerships. At the time we acquire a dealership or enter into a new dealership or framework agreement, several manufacturers establish certain sales or performance criteria for that dealership, in some cases in the form of a business plan. The criteria of these performance indicators have been modified by various manufacturers from time to time in the past, and we cannot assure you that these criteria will not be further modified or replaced by different systems in the future. Some of our dealerships have had difficulty from time to time meeting these standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these standards in the future. In addition, manufacturers may use these performance indicators, as well as sales performance numbers, as factors in evaluating applications for acquisitions. A manufacturer may refuse to consent to our acquisition of one of its franchises if it determines our dealerships do not comply with its performance standards. This may impede our ability to execute our acquisition strategy and hinder our ability to grow. See also, “Risk Factors Related to our Dependence on Vehicle Manufacturers—Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions or divestitures may limit our future growth and impact our profitability.” In addition, we receive payments from certain manufacturers based, in part, on CSI scores, and future payments may be materially reduced or eliminated if our CSI scores decline. The reorganization by, or the bankruptcy of, one or more of the manufacturers could have a material adverse affect on our operations. Certain manufacturers have incurred substantial operating losses in recent periods. Sustained periods of poor financial performance by a manufacturer may force it to seek to reorganize or to seek protection from creditors in bankruptcy. A reorganization by a manufacturer may, among other things, result in a delay in the introduction of new or competitive makes or models, an elimination of certain makes or models or dealership locations, or a disruption in vehicle deliveries to our dealerships. If an attempted reorganization proves unsuccessful for the manufacturer, the continued financial distress could result in the cessation of its operations. In the event of a bankruptcy by a vehicle manufacturer, among other things: (i) the manufacturer could seek to terminate all or certain of our franchises, and we may not receive adequate compensation for them, (ii) we may not be able to collect some or all of our receivables that are due from such manufacturer and we may be subject to preference claims relating to payments to us made by such manufacturer prior to bankruptcy, (iii) it may increase our cost to obtain financing for our new vehicle inventory with such manufacturer’s captive finance subsidiary, which may cause us to finance our new vehicle inventory with alternate finance sources on less favorable terms, and (iv) consumer demand for such manufacturer’s products could be materially adversely affected, especially if certain of costs related to improving such manufacturer’s poor financial condition are imputed to the price of its products. The occurrence of any one or more of the above-mentioned events could have a material adverse affect on our day-to-day operations. Furthermore, such events could result in a partial write-down of our manufacturer franchise rights (to the extent that we have recorded them) or our receivables, and a partial write-down of our goodwill. See also “Risk Factors—Risk Factors Related to our Dependence on Vehicle Manufacturers—Adverse conditions affecting the manufacturers may negatively impact our profitability.” Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions or divestitures may limit our future growth and impact our profitability. We are generally required to obtain manufacturer consent before we can acquire any additional dealerships. In addition, many of our dealer and framework agreements require that we meet certain customer service and sales performance standards as a condition to additional dealership acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will meet these performance standards and that manufacturers will consent to future acquisitions, which may deter us from being able to take advantage of market opportunities and restrict our ability to expand our business. The process of applying for and obtaining manufacturer 20 consents can take a significant amount of time, generally 60 to 90 days or more. Delays in consummating acquisitions caused by this process may negatively affect our ability to acquire dealerships that we believe will produce acquisition synergies and integrate well to our overall growth strategy. In addition, manufacturers typically establish minimum capital requirements for each of their dealerships on a case-by-case basis. As a condition to granting consent to a proposed acquisition, a manufacturer may require us to remodel and upgrade our facilities and capitalize the subject dealership at levels we would not otherwise choose, causing us to divert our financial resources from uses that management believes may be of higher long-term value to us. Furthermore, the exercise by manufacturers of their right of first refusal to acquire a dealership may prevent us from acquiring dealerships that we have identified as important to our growth, thereby having an adverse affect on our ability to grow through acquisitions. Likewise, from time to time, we may determine that it is in our best interest to divest of an unprofitable dealership. Parties that are interested in acquiring our dealership must also seek the consent of the manufacturers. The refusal by the manufacturer to approve a potential buyer would delay the divestiture of the dealership as we would either have to find another potential buyer, which could take some time, or wait until the buyer is able to meet the expectations of the manufacturer. A delay in the sale of an unprofitable dealership may have a negative impact on our profitability and an adverse affect on our business. Many vehicle manufacturers place limits on the total number of franchises that any group of affiliated dealerships may obtain. Certain manufacturers place limits on the number of franchises or share of total brand vehicle sales maintained by an affiliated dealership group on a national, regional or local basis. Manufacturers may also tailor these types of restrictions to particular dealership groups. We are close to our franchise ceilings with Toyota and Lexus and at such ceiling with Jaguar. We are currently not able to acquire additional Ford, Lincoln or Mercury dealerships; however, we may negotiate with Ford for a waiver. If we reach these franchise ceilings discussed above, we may be prevented from making further acquisitions, which could affect our growth. If state dealer laws that protect automotive retailers are repealed, weakened or superseded by our framework agreements with manufacturers, our dealerships will be more susceptible to termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of their dealer agreements. State dealer laws generally provide that a manufacturer may not terminate or refuse to renew a dealer agreement unless it has first provided the dealer with written notice setting forth “good cause” and stating the grounds for termination or non-renewal. Some state dealer laws allow dealers to file protests or petitions or attempt to comply with the manufacturer’s criteria within the notice period to avoid the termination or non-renewal. Though unsuccessful to date, manufacturers’ lobbying efforts may lead to the repeal or revision of state dealer laws. We have framework agreements with certain of our manufacturers. Among other provisions, these agreements attempt to limit the protections available to dealers under state dealer laws. If dealer laws are repealed in the states in which we operate, manufacturers may be able to terminate our franchises without providing advance notice, an opportunity to cure or a showing of good cause. Without the protection of state dealer laws, it may also be more difficult for our dealers to renew their dealer agreements upon expiration. In addition, in some states these laws restrict the ability of automobile manufacturers to compete directly in the retail market. If manufacturers obtain the ability to directly retail vehicles and do so in our markets, such competition could have a material adverse effect on us. See “Business—Dealer and Framework Agreements—State Dealer Laws.” 21 Manufacturers’ restrictions regarding a change in our stock ownership may result in the termination or forced sale of our franchises, which may adversely impact the value of our common stock. Some of our dealer agreements and framework agreements with manufacturers prohibit transfers of any ownership interests of a dealership or, in some cases, its parent, without manufacturer consent. Our agreements with some manufacturers provide that, under certain circumstances, we may lose (either through termination or forced sale) the franchise if a person or entity acquires an ownership interest in us above a specified level or if a person or entity acquires the right to vote a specified level of our common stock without the approval of the applicable manufacturer. This trigger level can fall to as low as 5% if another vehicle manufacturer or a person with a criminal record is affiliated with the entity acquiring the ownership interest or voting rights. Violations by our stockholders of these ownership restrictions are generally outside of our control and may result in the termination or non-renewal of our dealer and framework agreements or forced sale of one or more franchises, which may have a material adverse effect on us. These restrictions may also prevent or deter prospective acquirers from acquiring control of us and, therefore, may adversely impact the value of our common stock. Our dealerships depend upon vehicle sales and, therefore, their success depends in large part upon customer demand for the particular vehicle lines they carry. The success of our dealerships depends in large part on the overall success of the vehicle lines they carry. Historically, we have generated most of our revenue through new vehicle sales. New vehicle sales also tend to lead to sales of higher-margin products and services such as finance and insurance products and parts and service operations. Although we have sought to limit our dependence on any one vehicle brand, we have focused our new vehicle sales operations on mid-line import and luxury brands. For the year ended December 31, 2006, brands representing 5% or more of our revenues from new vehicle retail sales were as follows: Brand % of Total New Vehicle Retail Sales Honda 21 % Nissan 12 % Mercedes-Benz 9 % Toyota 8 % BMW 6 % Lexus 6 % Acura 5 % Ford 5 % No other brand accounted for more than 5% of our total new vehicle retail sales revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, except for Navistar (6%), which was a result of significant demand for new heavy trucks during 2006 due to changes in emission laws effective in January 2007. If we fail to obtain a desirable mix of popular new vehicles from manufacturers, our profitability will be negatively impacted. We depend on manufacturers to provide us with a desirable mix of popular new vehicles. Typically, popular vehicles produce the highest profit margins but tend to be the most difficult to obtain from manufacturers. Manufacturers generally allocate their vehicles among their franchised dealerships based on the sales history of each dealership. If our dealerships experience prolonged sales slumps, those manufacturers will cut back their allotments of popular vehicles to our dealerships and new vehicle sales and profits may decline. 22 If automobile manufacturers discontinue incentive programs, our sales volumes may be adversely affected. Our dealerships depend on manufacturers for certain sales incentives, warranties and other programs that are intended to promote and support new vehicle sales. Manufacturers often make many changes to their incentive programs during each year. Some key incentive programs include: · customer rebates on new vehicles; · dealer incentives on new vehicles; · extensions of employee discounts; · special financing or leasing terms; and · warranties on new and used vehicles. A reduction or discontinuation of key manufacturers’ incentive programs may reduce our new vehicle unit sales and related revenue. Adverse conditions affecting the manufacturers may negatively impact our profitability. The success of each of our dealerships depends to a great extent on vehicle manufacturers’: · financial condition; · marketing efforts; · vehicle design; · production capabilities; · reputation; · management; and · labor relations. Adverse conditions affecting these and other important aspects of manufacturers’ operations and public relations may adversely affect our ability to market their automobiles to the public and, as a result, significantly and detrimentally affect our profitability. 23 RISKS RELATED TO OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY If we are unable to acquire and successfully integrate additional dealerships, we will be unable to realize desired results from our growth through acquisition strategy and acquired operations will drain resources from comparatively profitable operations. We believe that the automobile retailing industry is a mature industry in which we expect relatively slow growth in industry unit sales. Accordingly, we believe that our future growth depends in part on our ability to manage expansion, control costs in our operations and acquire and integrate acquired dealerships into our organization. In pursuing our strategy of acquiring other dealerships, we face risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to: · failing to obtain manufacturers’ consents to acquisitions of additional franchises; · incurring significant transaction related costs for both completed and failed acquisitions; · incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; · failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired dealerships; · incurring undisclosed liabilities at acquired dealerships; · disrupting our ongoing business and diverting our management resources; and · impairing relationships with employees, manufacturers and customers as a result of changes in management. We may not adequately anticipate all the demands that our growth will impose on our personnel, procedures and structures, including our financial and reporting control systems, data processing systems and management structure. Moreover, our failure to retain qualified management personnel at any acquired dealership may increase the risk associated with integrating the acquired dealership. If we cannot adequately anticipate and respond to these demands, we may fail to realize acquisition synergies and our resources will be focused on incorporating new operations into our structure rather than on areas that may be more profitable. See also “Risk Factors Related to our Dependence on Vehicle Manufacturers—Manufacturers’ restrictions on acquisitions may limit our future growth.” The competition with other dealer groups to acquire automotive dealerships is intense, and we may not be able to fully implement our growth through acquisition strategy if attractive targets are acquired by competing groups or if competition drives prices to the point where an acceptable rate of return is not achievable. We believe that the United States automotive retailing market is fragmented and offers many potential acquisition candidates that meet our targeting criteria. However, we compete with several other national, regional and local dealer groups, some of which may have greater financial and other resources. Competition for attractive acquisition targets with existing dealer groups and dealer groups formed in the future may result in fewer acquisition opportunities and increased acquisition costs. We will have to forego acquisition opportunities to the extent that we cannot negotiate acquisitions on acceptable terms. 24 RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION Substantial competition in automobile sales and services may adversely affect our profitability. The automotive retailing and servicing industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location and selection. Our competition includes: · franchised automobile dealerships in our markets that sell the same or similar new and used vehicles that we offer; · other national or regional affiliated groups of franchised dealerships; · privately negotiated sales of used vehicles; · internet-based vehicle brokers that sell vehicles obtained from franchised dealers directly to consumers; · sales of used vehicles by rental car companies; · service center chain stores; and · independent service and repair shops. We do not have any cost advantage in purchasing new vehicles from manufacturers. We typically rely on advertising, merchandising, sales expertise, service reputation and dealership location to sell new and used vehicles. Our dealer agreements do not grant us the exclusive right to sell a manufacturer’s product within a given geographic area. Our revenues or profitability may be materially and adversely affected if competing dealerships expand their market share or are awarded additional franchises by manufacturers that supply our dealerships. RISKS RELATED TO THE AUTOMOTIVE RETAIL INDUSTRY Our business will be harmed if overall consumer demand suffers from a severe or sustained downturn. Our business is heavily dependent on consumer demand and preferences. Our revenues will be materially and adversely affected if there is a severe or sustained downturn in overall levels of consumer spending. Retail vehicle sales are cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns characterized by oversupply and weak demand. These cycles are often dependent on general economic conditions and consumer confidence, as well as the level of discretionary personal income, credit availability and interest rates. Future recessions may have a material adverse effect on our retail business, particularly sales of new and used automobiles. In addition, severe or sustained increases in gasoline prices may lead to a reduction in automobile purchases or a shift in buying patterns from luxury/SUV models (which typically provide higher profit margins to retailers) to smaller, more economical vehicles (which typically have lower margins). Our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in our local markets, even if those conditions are not prominent nationally. Our performance is also subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in our various geographic areas. Our dealerships currently are located in the Atlanta, Austin, Chapel Hill, Charlotte, Charlottesville, Dallas-Fort Worth, Fayetteville, Fort Pierce, Fresno, Greensboro, Greenville, Houston, Jackson, Jacksonville, Little Rock, Los Angeles, Orlando, Richmond, Sacramento, St. Louis and Tampa markets and the results of our operations therefore depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending levels in those areas. 25 The seasonality of the automobile retail business magnifies the importance of our second and third quarter results. The automobile industry is subject to seasonal variations in revenues. Demand for automobiles is generally lower during the first and fourth quarters of each year. Accordingly, we expect our revenues and operating results generally to be lower in our first and fourth quarters than in our second and third quarters. If conditions surface during the second or third quarters that weaken automotive sales, such as severe weather in the geographic areas in which our dealerships operate, war, high fuel costs, depressed economic conditions or similar adverse conditions, our revenues for the year will be disproportionately adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by import product restrictions and foreign trade risks that may impair our ability to sell foreign vehicles or parts profitably. A portion of our new vehicle business involves the sale of vehicles, parts or vehicles composed of parts that are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations are subject to customary risks of importing merchandise, including fluctuations in the relative values of currencies, import duties, exchange controls, trade restrictions, work stoppages and general political and socio-economic conditions in other countries. The United States or the countries from which our products are imported may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariffs, which may affect our operations and our ability to purchase imported vehicles and/or parts at reasonable prices. A decline of available financing in the sub-prime lending market may adversely affect our sales of used vehicles. The majority of vehicle buyers, particularly those seeking to purchase used vehicles, finance the purchase of such vehicles. Sub-prime lenders have historically provided financing to those buyers who, for a number of reasons, do not have access to traditional financing, including those buyers who have a poor credit history or lack the down payment necessary to purchase a vehicle. It appears that sub-prime lenders are becoming more stringent with their credit standards and may continue to apply higher standards in the future. If there is a decline in the availability of credit in the sub-prime lending market, the ability of these consumers to purchase vehicles could be limited, resulting in a decline in our used vehicle sales. Retail sales of used vehicles generally have higher gross margins than new vehicles. A decline in our used vehicle sales could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. 26 OTHER RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Failure to comply with certain covenants in our debt and lease agreements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and adversely impact our compliance with our Committed Credit Facility. We have certain debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2006, we had total debt of $485.0 million, excluding floor plan notes payable and the effects of our fair value hedge on our 8% Notes. In addition, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional debt from time to time to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in our Committed Credit Facility and the indentures governing our 9% Notes and our 8% Notes. We will have substantial debt service obligations, consisting of required cash payments of principal and interest, for the foreseeable future. In addition, we have operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt instruments, including our Committed Credit Facility and the indentures under our 9% Notes and our 8% Notes. In particular, our Committed Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt instruments or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, as a result of entering into a number of sale-leaseback agreements, a number of our dealerships are located on properties that we lease rather than own. Each of the leases governing such properties has certain covenants with which we must comply. In the event of any default under our Committed Credit Facility, the payment of all outstanding borrowings could be accelerated, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, and we would be required to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings or could be prevented from making debt service payments on our 9% Notes and our 8% Notes, any of which would be an event of default under the respective indentures for such Notes. Our capital costs and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by a rising interest rate environment. We generally finance our purchases of new vehicle inventory and have the ability to finance the purchase of used vehicle inventory using floor plan credit facilities under which we are charged interest at floating rates. In addition, we obtain capital for general corporate purposes, dealership acquisitions and real estate purchases and improvements under predominantly floating interest rate credit facilities. Therefore, our interest expense from variable rate debt will rise with increases in interest rates. However, a significant rise in interest rates may also have the effect of depressing demand in the interest rate sensitive aspects of our business, particularly new and used vehicle sales, because many of our customers finance their vehicle purchases. As a result, rising interest rates may have the effect of simultaneously increasing our costs and reducing our revenues. Given our debt composition as of December 31, 2006, each one percent increase in market interest rates would increase our total annual interest expense, including floor plan interest, by $5.9 million. We receive interest credit assistance from certain automobile manufacturers, which is reflected as a reduction in the cost of inventory on the balance sheet. Although we can provide no assurance as to the amount of future floor plan credits, it is our expectation, based on historical experience, that an increase in prevailing interest rates would result in increased interest credit assistance from certain automobile manufacturers. Governmental regulations and environmental regulation compliance costs may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, consumer protection and privacy laws, wage and hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws, and environmental requirements governing, among other things, discharges into the air and water, above ground and underground storage of petroleum substances and chemicals, 27 handling and disposal of wastes and remediation of contamination arising from spills and releases. If we or our employees at the individual dealerships violate these laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, or a cease and desist order may be issued against our operations that are not in compliance. Our future acquisitions may also be subject to governmental regulation, including antitrust reviews. Future laws and regulations relating to our business may be more stringent than current laws and regulations and require us to incur significant additional costs. Our business and financial results may be adversely affected by claims alleging violations of laws and regulations related to our advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities. Our business is highly regulated. Private plaintiffs and state attorneys general scrutinize dealers’ advertising, sales, and finance and insurance activities in the sale and leasing of motor vehicles. The conduct of our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding unfair, deceptive and/or fraudulent trade practices (including advertising, marketing, sales, insurance, repair and promotion practices), truth-in-lending, consumer leasing, fair credit practices, equal credit opportunity, privacy, insurance, motor vehicle finance, installment finance, closed-end credit, usury and other installment sales. We could be susceptible to claims or related actions alleging violation of such laws and regulations if we fail to operate our business in accordance with practices designed to avert such liability. Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law may be asserted against us or any of our dealers by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings. Vehicle lessors could be subject to claims of negligent leasing in connection with their lessees’ vehicle operation. Such actions may expose us to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties, including suspension or revocation of our licenses and franchises to conduct dealership operations. The loss of key personnel may adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team, particularly our senior management and service and sales personnel. Manufacturer dealer agreements may require the prior approval of the applicable manufacturer before any change is made in dealership general managers. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees may materially impair the efficiency and productivity of our operations. In addition, we may need to hire additional managers as we expand. Potential acquisitions are viable to us only if we are able to retain experienced managers or obtain replacement managers should the owner or manger of the acquired dealership retire. The market for qualified employees in the industry and in the regions in which we operate, particularly for general managers and sales and service personnel, is highly competitive and may subject us to increased labor costs during periods of low unemployment. The loss of the services of key employees or the inability to attract additional qualified managers may adversely affect the ability of our dealerships to conduct their operations in accordance with the standards set by our headquarters management. We depend on our executive officers as well as other key personnel. Not all our key personnel are bound by employment agreements, and those with employment agreements are bound only for a limited period of time. Further, we do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or key personnel. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and implement our business plans. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying 28 interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board revised the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States to require us to record charges to earnings for employee stock-based awards beginning in 2006. This requirement will negatively impact our earnings in the future. Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased by approximately $5.0 million in 2006 from 2005 as a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123R “Share-Based Payment” along with our decision to issue restricted stock units instead of stock options. Certain of our equity awards have conditions based on the performance of the company that may affect the number of awards ultimately issued. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 