Item 1a. Risk Factors This filing contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. A variety of risks and uncertainties could cause Acuity Brands’ actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 34. These risks include, without limitation: Risks Related to the Business of Acuity Brands, Inc. General business and economic conditions may affect demand for the Company’s products and services which could impact results from operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment that is influenced by a number of general business and economic factors, such as gross domestic product growth, employment, credit availability, and interest rates. The construction market in North America and Europe, including residential and non-residential sectors, are directly impacted by the general economic vitality of those regions, which, as of late October 2008, are experiencing a great deal of volatility. Therefore, declines in general economic activity negatively impact new construction and renovation projects, which in turn impact demand for the Company’s product and service offerings. The recent volatility in the economy has created a great deal of uncertainty in the Company’s key construction markets thus lowering demand while component and 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements certain commodity prices remain high. Management expects these conditions to continue for the foreseeable future. The impact of these factors could adversely effect the Company’s financial position, results from operations, and cash flows. Tightening credit conditions could impair the ability of the Company’s customers to effectively access capital markets, resulting in a negative impact on demand for the Company’s products and services. The impact of tightening credit conditions has and could continue to impair customers of the Company ability to effectively access capital markets, resulting in a decline in construction, renovation, and relight projects. The inability of the Company’s customers to borrow money to fund construction and renovation projects reduces the demand for the Company’s products and services and may adversely affect the Company’s results from operations and cash flow. The lack of credit availability as of the end of October 2008 has negatively impacted the Company’s results from operations by reducing orders from both residential and non-residential customers. Acuity Brands is heavily dependent on the strength of construction activity. Sales activity within the lighting equipment industry depends significantly on the level of activity in new construction, additions, and renovations. Demand for non-residential construction is driven by many factors, including but not limited to the general economic activity, availability of credit, fluctuation of interest rates, accessibility to public financing, and trends in vacancy rates and rent values. Demand for new residential construction and remodeling is also affected by the fluctuation of interest rates and the availability of credit as well as the supply of existing homes, price appreciation, and household formation rates. Significant decreases in either residential or non-residential construction activity could significantly impact the Company’s results of operations. During fiscal 2008, the Company experienced an estimated 3% decline in sales volume resulting from weakness in the residential market and reduced new store construction by certain large retailers. Construction market forecasts as of the end of October 2008 for fiscal 2009 by independent third parties project an upper single digit to lower double digit percent decline in unit volume year-over-year due to a forecasted decrease in U.S. construction activity. Acuity Brands’ results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost or availability of raw materials. The Company utilizes a variety of raw materials and components in its production process including petroleum based chemicals, steel, copper, ballasts, and aluminum. For example, the Company purchases approximately 120,000 tons of steel and aluminum on an annual basis depending on various factors including product mix. The Company estimates that approximately 5% of the raw materials purchased are petroleum-based. Additionally, the Company estimates that approximately 3.5 million gallons of diesel fuel are consumed annually through the Company’s distribution activities. Failure to effectively manage future increases in the costs of these items could adversely affect the ability to achieve operating margins acceptable to shareholders. There can be no assurance that future raw material price increases will be successfully passed through to customers. The Company sources these goods from a number of suppliers and is, therefore, reasonably insulated from risks affecting any one supplier. However, as a consequence of recent consolidation in the electrical industry, certain suppliers are becoming competitors, which could negatively impact, at least on a short term basis, the Company’s ability to access certain component parts. Profitability and volume could be negatively impacted by limitations inherent within the supply chain of certain of these component parts, including competitive, governmental, legal, natural disasters, and other events that could impact both supply and price. Acuity Brand’s results may be adversely affected by the Company’s ability to maintain pricing. Aggressive competitive pricing by the Company’s primary competitors may affect the Company’s ability to achieve desired volume growth and profitability levels under its current pricing strategies. The Company may not be able to increase prices to cover rising costs of components and raw materials. Even if the 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Company were able to increase prices to cover costs, competitive pricing pressures may not allow the Company to pass on any more that the cost increases which could negatively impact gross margin percentages. Alternatively, if component and raw material costs were to decline, the marketplace may not allow the Company to hold prices at their current levels, which could impact both revenue and gross margin growth. Acuity Brands may experience difficulties in the consolidation of manufacturing facilities which could impact the shipments to customers and the ability to realize the expected savings from accelerated streamlining actions. Subsequent to fiscal 2008, the Company announced plans to accelerate its ongoing programs to streamline operations through the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities and the reduction of overhead costs. Upon completion of these actions, the Company expects to realize annualized benefits of more than $36 million. The Company will gain from such activity only to the extent that it can effectively leverage assets, personnel, and operating processes in the transition of production between manufacturing facilities. Uncertainty is inherent within the facility consolidation process, and unforeseen circumstances could offset the anticipated benefits and disrupt service to the customer. Tightening credit conditions could impair the Company’s ability to effectively access capital markets. Tightening credit conditions as well as changes in interest and foreign currency rates could impair the Company’s ability to effectively access capital markets. This could impair the Company’s ability to refinance debt as it becomes due or to acquire additional credit, if needed. Capital market conditions as of the end of October 2008 are in a state of flux and continued uncertainty could impair the ability of the financial institutions committed under the Company’s credit lines to fund borrowings under those lines. The inability to effectively access capital markets could adversely affect the Company’s profitable growth plans, financial position and results from operations. Acuity Brands is subject to risks related to operations outside the United States. The Company has substantial operations outside the United States. Net sales outside the United States represented approximately 11% of the Company’s total net sales for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008. Furthermore, as of August 31, 2008, approximately 55% of the Company’s products were manufactured outside the United States. The Company’s operations as well as those of key vendors are therefore subject to regulatory, economic, political, military, and other events in countries where these operations are located. In addition to the risks that are common to both the Company’s U.S. and non-U.S. operations, the Company faces risks related to its foreign operations including but not limited to foreign currency fluctuations; unstable political, economic, financial, and market conditions; trade restrictions; and increases in tariffs and taxes. Some of these risks have affected the business of Acuity Brands in the past and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in the future. Acuity Brands is subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and the Company may be exposed to substantial environmental, health, and safety costs and liabilities. Acuity Brands is subject to a broad range of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental, health, and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment, and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, and the remediation of environmental contamination and working conditions for the Company’s employees. Some environmental laws, such as 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Superfund, the Clean Water Act, and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions world-wide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct, on those persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These laws may impact the manufacture and distribution of the Company’s products and place restrictions on the products the Company can sell in certain geographical locations. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations, and past activities. The Company has established reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these reserves may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, the Company’s potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not previously been established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital and other ongoing expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at the Company’s properties could adversely affect its ability to sell property, receive full value for a property, or use a property as collateral for a loan. Acuity Brands may develop unexpected legal contingencies or lose insurance coverage. Acuity Brands is subject to various claims, including legal claims arising in the normal course of business. The Company is insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims with a self-insurance retention of $0.5 million per occurrence, including product liability claims, and is fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, commercial disputes, and patent infringement. Acuity Brands establishes reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved for such claims. In the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolutions of such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, Acuity Brands cannot guarantee that it will be able to maintain current levels of insurance coverage for all matters that are currently insured for costs that the Company considers reasonable. The Company’s insurance coverage is negotiated on an annual basis, and insurance policies in the future may have coverage exclusions that could cause claim-related costs to rise. Acuity Brands may pursue future growth through strategic acquisitions and alliances which may not yield anticipated benefits. The Company has previously endeavored, and may again endeavor to improve the business through strategic acquisitions and alliances. The Company will gain from such activity only to the extent that it can effectively leverage the assets, including personnel, and operating processes of the acquired businesses and alliances. Uncertainty is inherent within the acquisition and alliance process, and unforeseen circumstances arising from future acquisitions or alliances could offset their anticipated benefits. Any of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, including its ability to generate positive operating cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Technological developments by competitors could affect the Company’s operating profit margins and sales volume. The Company is highly engaged in the investigation, development, and implementation of new technologies. Securing key partnerships and alliances as well as employee talent, including having access to technologies generated by others and the obtaining of appropriate patents, play a significant role in protecting Acuity Brands’ intellectual property and development activities. However, the continual development of new technologies (e.g., LEDs and lamp ballast systems) by existing and new source suppliers looking for either direct market access or partnership with competing large manufacturers, coupled with significant associated exclusivity and/or patent activity, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to sustain operating profit margin and desirable levels of volume. Acuity Brands may be unable to sustain significant customer relationships. Relationships forged with customers, including The Home Depot, which represents approximately 11% of the total net sales for fiscal year 2008, are directly impacted by the Company’s ability to deliver high quality products and service. Acuity Brands does not have a written contract obligating The Home Depot to purchase its products. The loss of or substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by The Home Depot would harm the Company’s sales and profitability. Innovation in design and technology achieved by competitors and implemented in their products could have a negative impact on customer acceptance of the Company’s products. If Acuity Brands products are improperly designed, manufactured, packaged, or labeled, the Company may need to recall those items and could be the target of product liability claims if consumers are injured. The Company may need to recall some of its products if they are improperly designed, manufactured, packaged, or labeled. The Company’s quality control procedures relating to the raw materials, including packaging, that it receives from third-party suppliers, as well as the Company’s quality control procedures relating to its products after those products are designed, manufactured and packaged, may not be sufficient. Acuity Brands has previously initiated product recalls as a result of potentially faulty components, assembly, installation, and packaging of its products, and widespread product recalls could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. Acuity Brands may also be liable if the use of any of its products causes injury, and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against the Company. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to the Company’s reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial results, and cash flow. Acuity Brands could be adversely affected by disruptions of its operations. Breakdown of equipment or other events, including catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions in the Company’s plants could have a material adverse effect on its financial results. Further, because many of the Company’s customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on planned deliveries from the Company’s plants, those customers that have to reschedule their own production or delay opening a facility due to the Company’s missed deliveries could pursue financial claims against Acuity Brands. The Company may incur costs to correct any of these problems, in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, the Company’s reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed, resulting in a loss of business. While the Company maintains insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage, business interruptions and product liability, these policies may not cover all losses and the Company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, loss of customers, and suffer substantial losses in operational capacity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial results and cash flow. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to Ownership of Acuity Brands Common Stock The market price and trading volume of the Company’s shares may be volatile. The market price of the Company’s common shares could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including for reasons unrelated to the Company’s specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general economic and industry conditions. For example, to the extent that other large companies within Acuity Brands’ industry experience declines in their share price, the Company’s share price may decline as well. In addition, when the market price of a company’s shares drops significantly, shareholders could institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against the Company could cause the Company to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of the Company’s management and other resources. Risks Related to the Spin-off of Zep Inc. Failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction could result in substantial liability. Acuity Brands has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that, among other things, the spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as tax-free to Acuity Brands, Zep Inc., and Acuity Brands stockholders for United States federal income tax purposes under section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Although a private letter ruling generally is binding on the Internal Revenue Service, if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then Acuity Brands will not be able to rely on the ruling. Moreover, the Internal Revenue Service will not rule on whether a distribution of shares satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code. Rather, the private letter ruling is based upon representations by Acuity Brands that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. Acuity Brands has received an opinion of King & Spalding LLP, counsel to Acuity Brands, to the effect that, with respect to the requirements referred to above on which the Internal Revenue Service will not rule, those requirements will be satisfied. The opinion is based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by Acuity Brands and Zep Inc. which, if untrue or incomplete in any material respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and the Internal Revenue Service or the courts may not agree with the opinion. If the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, a substantial corporate tax would be payable by Acuity Brands, measured by the difference between (1) the aggregate fair market value of the shares of Zep common stock on the date of the spin-off and (2) Acuity Brands’ adjusted tax basis in the shares of Zep common stock on the date of the spin-off. The corporate level tax would be payable by Acuity Brands. However, Zep has agreed under certain circumstances to indemnify Acuity Brands for this tax liability. In addition, under the applicable Treasury regulations, each member of Acuity Brands’ consolidated group at the time of the spin-off (including Zep) is severally liable for such tax liability. Furthermore, if the spin-off does not qualify as tax-free, each Acuity Brands stockholder generally would be taxed as if he or she had received a cash distribution equal to the fair market value of the shares of Zep common stock on the date of the spin-off. Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as tax-free, Acuity Brands nevertheless could incur a substantial corporate tax liability under section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, if 50 percent or more of the stock of Acuity Brands or Zep were to be acquired as part of a “plan (or a series of related transactions)” that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions of the stock of Acuity Brands or of Zep 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements stock that occur within two years before or after the spin-off are presumed to be part of such a plan, although Acuity Brands may be able to rebut that presumption. If such an acquisition of the stock of Acuity Brands or of Zep stock triggers the application of section 355(e), Acuity Brands would recognize taxable gain as described above, but the spin-off would generally remain tax-free to the Acuity Brands stockholders. If acquisitions of Zep’s stock trigger the application of section 355(e), Zep would be obligated to indemnify Acuity Brands for the resulting corporate-level tax liability. 