ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings before you decide whether to buy our common stock. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business The payment processing industry is highly competitive and we compete with certain firms that are larger and that have greater financial resources. Such competition could increase, which would adversely influence our prices to merchants, and as a result, our operating margins. 22 The market for payment processing services is highly competitive. Other providers of payment processing services have established a sizable market share in the small- and medium-size merchant processing sector. Maintaining our historic growth will depend on a combination of the continued growth in electronic payment transactions and our ability to increase our market share. According to The Nilson Report, in 2004 the eight largest bank card acquirers accounted for approximately $1.4 trillion of purchase volume (which we refer to as processing volume) on bank cards and the total purchase volume of all bank card acquirers was $1.5 trillion. We accounted for approximately 1.8% of this total volume in 2004. This competition may influence the prices we are able to charge. If the competition causes us to reduce the prices we charge, we will have to aggressively control our costs in order to maintain acceptable profit margins. In addition, some of our competitors are financial institutions, subsidiaries of financial institutions or well-established payment processing companies, including First Data Corporation, National Processing, Inc., a subsidiary of Bank of America Corporation, Global Payments, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, Chase Paymentech Solutions and Nova Information Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. Our competitors that are financial institutions or subsidiaries of financial institutions do not incur the costs associated with being sponsored by a bank for registration with the card associations and can settle transactions more quickly for their merchants than we can for ours. These competitors have substantially greater financial, technology, management and marketing resources than we have. This may allow our competitors to offer more attractive fees to our current and prospective merchants, or to other than products or services that we do not offer. This could result in a loss of customers, greater difficulty attracting new customers, and a reduction in the price we can charge for our services. We are subject to the business cycles and credit risk of our merchants, which could negatively impact our financial results. A recessionary economic environment could have a negative impact on our merchants, which could, in turn, negatively impact our financial results, particularly if the recessionary environment disproportionately affects some of the market segments that represent a larger portion of our processing volume, like restaurants. If our merchants make fewer sales of their products and services, we will have fewer transactions to process, resulting in lower revenue. In addition, we have a certain amount of fixed and semi-fixed costs, including rent, processing contractual minimums and salaries, which could limit our ability to quickly adjust costs and respond to changes in our business and the economy. In a recessionary environment our merchants could also experience a higher rate of business closures, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. During the last recession, we experienced a slowdown in the rate of same-store sales growth and an increase in business closures. In the event of a closure of a merchant, we are unlikely to receive our fees for any transactions processed by that merchant in its final month of operation. While we service a broad range of merchants, restaurants represent a significant portion of our merchant base. The failure rate of restaurants is typically high, which increases our merchant attrition and reject losses. A reduction in consumer spending, particularly at restaurants, would further increase our rate of merchant attrition and reject losses. We have faced, and will in the future face, chargeback liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers, and reject losses when our merchants go out of business. We cannot accurately anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the event a billing dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally “charged back” to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we or our clearing banks are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant’s account, or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for the chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. The risk of chargebacks is typically greater with those merchants that promise future delivery of goods and services rather than delivering goods or rendering services at the time of payment. We may experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Reject losses arise from the fact that we collect our fees from our merchants on the first day after the monthly billing period. This results in the build-up of a substantial receivable from our customers, which significantly exceeds the receivables of any of our competitors which assess their fees on a daily basis. If a merchant has gone out of business during the billing period, we may be unable to collect such fees. In addition, if our sponsor bank is unable, due to system disruption or other failure, to collect our fees from our merchants, we would face a substantial loss. We incurred charges relating to chargebacks and reject losses of $1,206,000, $940,000 and $605,000 in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We have faced, and will in the future face, merchant fraud, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have potential liability for fraudulent bank card transactions initiated by merchants. Merchant fraud occurs when a merchant knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit bank card or card number to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid bank card or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Examples of merchant fraud we have faced include a manager of a franchised motel who applied for a merchant account that proved to be a second account for that motel, and processed duplicate charges in his office, and an antique repair service owner who continued accepting deposits on cards for repairs, but stopped doing the repairs. We have established systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of merchant fraud, but we cannot assure you that these measures are or will be effective. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase our chargeback liability. Increases in chargebacks could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Unauthorized disclosure of merchant and cardholder data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to liability and protracted and costly litigation. We collect and store sensitive data about merchants, including names, addresses, social security numbers, driver’s license numbers and checking account numbers. In addition, we maintain a database of cardholder data relating to specific transactions, including bank card numbers, in order to process the transactions and for fraud prevention. Any significant incidents of loss of cardholder data by us or our merchants could result in significant fines and sanctions by Visa, MasterCard or governmental bodies, which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial position and/or operations. In addition, a significant breach could result in our being prohibited from processing transactions for Visa and MasterCard. Our computer systems could be penetrated by hackers and our encryption of data may not prevent unauthorized use. In this event, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated bank card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. We could also be subject to liability for claims relating to misuse of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims also could result in protracted and costly litigation. In addition, we could be subject to penalties or sanctions from the Visa and MasterCard associations. Although we generally require that our agreements with our service providers who have access to merchant and customer data include confidentiality obligations that restrict these parties from using or disclosing any customer or merchant data except as necessary to perform their services under the applicable agreements, we cannot assure you that these contractual measures will prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of data. In addition, our agreements with financial institutions require us to take certain protective measures to ensure the confidentiality of merchant and consumer data. Any failure to adequately enforce these protective measures could result in protracted and costly litigation. 24 Increased merchant attrition that we cannot anticipate or offset with increased processing volume or new accounts would cause our revenues to decline. We experience attrition in merchant processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, transfers of merchants’ accounts to our competitors and account closures that we initiate due to heightened credit risks relating to, or contract breaches by, merchants. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, we experienced average annual attrition of 10% to 12% of total processing volume. Substantially all of our processing contracts may be terminated by either party on relatively short notice. We cannot predict the level of attrition in the future and therefore it could increase. Increased attrition in merchant processing volume may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to establish accounts with new merchants or otherwise increase our processing volume in order to counter the effect of this attrition, our revenues will decline. We rely on a bank sponsor, which has substantial discretion with respect to certain elements of our business practices, in order to process bank card transactions. If this sponsorship is terminated and we are unable to secure new bank sponsors, we will not be able to conduct our business. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from Visa and MasterCard bank card transactions. Because we are not a bank, we are not eligible for membership in the Visa and MasterCard associations and are, therefore, unable to directly access the bank card association networks, which are required to process Visa and MasterCard transactions. Visa and MasterCard operating regulations require us to be sponsored by a bank in order to process bank card transactions. We are currently registered with Visa and MasterCard through KeyBank, which has maintained that registration since 1999. If we or our bank sponsor fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the Visa and MasterCard bank card associations, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate our registration. The bank card associations frequently amend their requirements. If we or our sponsoring bank were unable to comply with any such amended requirements, Visa or MasterCard could suspend or terminate our registration. On occasion, we have received notices of non-compliance, which have typically related to excessive chargebacks for a merchant or data security failures on the part of a merchant. The termination of our registration, or any changes in the Visa or MasterCard rules that would impair our registration, could require us to stop providing Visa and MasterCard payment processing services, which would make it impossible for us to conduct our business. In addition, if our sponsorship is terminated and we are unable to secure another bank sponsor or sponsors, we will not be able to process Visa and MasterCard transactions. Furthermore, our agreement with KeyBank gives it substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants, the terms of our agreements with merchants and our customer service levels. KeyBank’s discretionary actions under this agreement could be detrimental to our operations. Current or future bank card association rules and practices could adversely affect our business. We are registered with the Visa and MasterCard associations through our bank sponsor as an Independent Sales Organization with Visa and a Member Service Provider with MasterCard. In addition, we are a sales agent for Discover, American Express and Diners Club. The rules of the bank card associations are set by member banks and, in the case of Discover, American Express and Diners Club, by the card issuers, and some of those banks and issuers are our competitors with respect to these processing services. Many banks directly or indirectly sell processing services to merchants in direct competition with us. These banks could attempt, by virtue of their membership in the associations, to alter the associations’ rules or policies to the detriment of non-members like us. Discover, American Express and Diners Club also sell processing services for their cardholders to merchants. The bank card associations or issuers who maintain our registrations or arrangements or the current bank card association or issuer rules allowing us to market and provide payment processing services may not remain in effect. The termination of our registration or our status as an Independent Sales Organization or Member Service Provider, or any changes in card association or issuer rules that limit our ability to provide payment processing services, could have an adverse effect on our processing volumes, revenues or operating costs. In addition, if we were precluded from processing Visa and MasterCard bank card transactions, we would lose substantially all of our revenues. 25 Our systems and our third-party providers’ systems may fail due to factors beyond our control, which could interrupt our service, cause us to lose business and increase our costs. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems, software, data center and telecommunications networks, as well as the systems of third parties. Our systems and operations or those of our third-party providers could be exposed to damage or interruption from, among other things, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Defects in our systems or those of third parties, errors or delays in the processing of payment transactions, telecommunications failures or other difficulties could result in: • loss of revenues; • loss of merchants, although our contracts with merchants do not expressly provide a right to terminate for business interruptions; • loss of merchant and cardholder data; • harm to our business or reputation; • exposure to fraud losses or other liabilities; • negative publicity; • additional operating and development costs; and/or • diversion of technical and other resources. We rely on other payment processors and service providers; if they no longer agree to provide their services, our merchant relationships could be adversely affected and we could lose business. We rely on agreements with several other large payment processing organizations to enable us to provide bank card authorization, data capture, settlement and merchant accounting services and access to various reporting tools for the merchants we serve. We rely primarily on Vital Processing Services, which provides most of our back-end and a minority of our front-end processing needs under a contract that expires in March 2006. We also use the services of First Data Corporation, Chase Paymentech Solutions and Global Payments Inc. who combined process less than 5% of our business and also directly or indirectly sell payment processing services to merchants in competition with us. We also rely on third parties to whom we outsource specific services, such as organizing and accumulating daily transaction data on a merchant-by-merchant and card issuer-by-card issuer basis and forwarding the accumulated data to the relevant bank card associations. Some of these organizations and service providers are our competitors and, with the exception of Vital, we do not have any long-term contracts with them. Typically, our contracts with these third parties are for one-year terms, have automatic one-year renewals and are subject to cancellation upon limited notice by either party. The termination by our service providers of their arrangements with us or their failure to perform their services efficiently and effectively may adversely affect our relationships with our merchants and, if we cannot find alternate providers quickly, may cause those merchants to terminate their processing agreements with us. Adverse conditions in markets in which we obtain a substantial amount of our processing volume, such as our largest markets of California, New York, Texas and Florida, could negatively affect our results of operations. Adverse economic or other conditions in California, New York, Texas and Florida would negatively affect our revenue and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In December 2005, merchants in California represented 14.6%, in New York represented 6.9%, and in Texas and Florida represented 4.5% of our total processing volume. As a result of this geographic concentration of our merchants in these markets, we are exposed to the risks of downturns in these local economies and to other local conditions, which could adversely affect the operating results of our merchants in these markets. 26 If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of our key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing payment processing industry and the selected markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key managers, particularly Robert O. Carr, our Chief Executive Officer, would have an adverse effect on our operations. None of our senior executives or key managers have entered into employment agreements with us. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified middle management and technical and clerical personnel as we grow. We may not continue to attract or retain such personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified sales people, our business and financial results may suffer. Unlike many of our competitors who rely on Independent Sales Organizations or salaried salespeople and telemarketers, we rely on a direct sales force whose compensation is entirely commission-based. Through our direct sales force of approximately 1,000 Relationship Managers, Servicing Relationship Managers and sales managers, we seek to increase the number of merchants using our products and services. We intend to significantly increase the size of our sales force. Our success partially depends on the skill and experience of our sales force. If we are unable to retain and attract sufficiently experienced and capable Relationship Managers, our business and financial results may suffer. If we cannot pass increases in bank card association interchange fees along to our merchants, our operating margins will be reduced. We pay interchange fees set by the bank card associations to the card issuing bank for each transaction we process involving their bank cards. From time to time, the bank card associations increase the interchange fees that they charge payment processors and the sponsoring banks. At its sole discretion, our sponsoring bank has the right to pass any increases in interchange fees on to us and it has consistently done so in the past. We are allowed to, and in the past we have been able to, pass these fee increases along to our merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees. However, if we are unable to do so in the future, our operating margins will be reduced. Any acquisitions or portfolio buyouts that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We expect to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. We may not be able to successfully finance or integrate any businesses, products or technologies that we acquire. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. To date, we have not acquired any significant companies or products. We may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. To the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition in cash, it would reduce our cash reserves, and to the extent the purchase price is paid with our stock, it could be dilutive to our stockholders. While we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions. We also regularly buy out the residual commissions of our Relationship Managers and sales managers, at multiples that typically amount to 2 to 2 1/2 years of such commissions. If the merchants included in the portfolios we purchase do not generate sufficient incremental margin after the purchase, we will not achieve a positive return on the cash expended. 27 Governmental regulations designed to protect or limit access to consumer information could adversely affect our ability to effectively provide our services to merchants. Governmental bodies in the United States and abroad have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, laws and regulations restricting the transfer of, and safeguarding, non-public personal information. For example, in the United States, all financial institutions must undertake certain steps to ensure the privacy and security of consumer financial information. While our operations are subject to certain provisions of these privacy laws, we have limited our use of consumer information solely to providing services to other businesses and financial institutions. We limit sharing of non-public personal information to that necessary to complete the transactions on behalf of the consumer and the merchant and to that permitted by federal and state laws. In connection with providing services to the merchants and financial institutions that use our services, we are required by regulations and contracts with our merchants to provide assurances regarding the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer information. These contracts require periodic audits by independent companies regarding our compliance with industry standards and best practices established by regulatory guidelines. The compliance standards relate to our infrastructure, components, and operational procedures designed to safeguard the confidentiality and security of non-public consumer personal information shared by our clients with us. Our ability to maintain compliance with these standards and satisfy these audits will affect our ability to attract and maintain business in the future. The cost of such systems and procedures may increase in the future and could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other similarly situated service providers. Our operating results are subject to seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly net income. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenues as a result of consumer spending patterns. Historically our revenues have been strongest in our second and third quarters, and weakest in our first quarter. We may become subject to additional U.S., state or local taxes that cannot be passed through to our merchants, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Companies in the payment processing industry, including us, may become subject to taxation in various tax jurisdictions on our net income or revenues. Application of these taxes is an emerging issue in our industry and taxing jurisdictions have not yet adopted uniform positions on this topic. If we are required to pay additional taxes and are unable to pass the tax expense through to our merchants, our costs would increase and our net income would be reduced. We face uncertainty about additional financing for our future capital needs, which may prevent us from growing our business. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital needs and operating expenses. We may need additional financing earlier than we anticipate if we: • expand faster than our internally generated cash flow can support; • purchase portfolio equity (the portion of our commissions that we have committed to our sales force for as long as the merchant processes with us, which we may buy out at an agreed multiple) from a large number of Relationship Managers or sales managers; • add new merchant accounts faster than expected; • need to reduce pricing in response to competition; or • acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities, these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding common stock. We may also decide to issue securities, including debt securities, that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. We may be unable to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all. If financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our future needs. This may prevent us from increasing our market share, capitalizing on new business opportunities or remaining competitive in our industry. 28 Risks Related to Our Company Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders have substantial control over our business, which could lead to conflicts of interest with other stockholders and could limit your ability to influence corporate matters. At December 31, 2005, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert O. Carr, beneficially owned approximately 30.4% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Carr and our other executive officers and directors collectively beneficially owned approximately 71.5% of our outstanding common stock. Greenhill Capital Partners, L.P. and its affiliated investment funds and LLR Equity Partners, L.P. and its affiliated investment fund owned in the aggregate approximately 33.7% of our outstanding common stock. Various officers, directors, partners and members of Greenhill Capital Partners, L.P. and its affiliated investment funds and LLR Equity Partners, L.P. and its affiliated investment fund are members of our board of directors. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting individually or together, will have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders may dictate the day-to-day management of our business. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. At December 31, 2005, we had 34,200,114 shares of our common stock outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding options to purchase a total of 8,282,825 shares under our 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan and our 2002 PEPShares Plan, of which 7,510,600 were vested. Assuming the exercise of all outstanding options to acquire our common stock, our current stockholders would own on a fully-diluted basis 80.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and the number of shares of our common stock available to trade could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition to the adverse effect a price decline could have on holders of our common stock, such a decline could impede our ability to raise capital or to make acquisitions through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. The holders of approximately 24,994,057 shares of our common stock will have rights to demand the registration of their shares or include their shares in registration statements that we may file on our behalf or on behalf of other stockholders. By exercising their registration rights and selling a large number of shares, these holders could cause the price of our common stock to decline, which could impede our ability to make acquisitions through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. Furthermore, if we file a registration statement to offer additional shares of our common stock and have to include shares held by those holders, it could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage a takeover you may consider favorable or could cause current management to become entrenched and difficult to replace. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, in our bylaws and under Delaware law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party: 29 • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings; • a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. If any shares of preferred stock are issued that contain an extraordinary dividend or special voting power, a change in control could be impeded. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning, generally, that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our common stock was not publicly traded before our August 11, 2005 initial public offering, and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. Before our August 11, 2005 initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock. An active public trading market may not develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. The market price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates; • the announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; • announcements related to litigation; • developments in our industry; and • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 