ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business If the market is not receptive to ZYFLO or, if approved for sale, the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, we will be unable to generate significant revenues unless we are able to successfully develop and commercialize other product candidates. The FDA approved our sNDA to manufacture and market ZYFLO for commercial sale on September 28, 2005. In late October 2005, we commercially launched ZYFLO. The commercial success of ZYFLO and, if approved for sale, the controlled-release formulation of zileuton will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community, third-party payors and patients. Physicians will prescribe ZYFLO and the controlled-release formulation of zileuton only if they determine, based on experience, clinical data, side effect profiles or other factors, that these products either alone or in combination with other products are appropriate for managing their patient’s asthma. Despite being approved by the FDA since 1996, ZYFLO has not achieved broad market acceptance. In the 12-month period ending September 2003, only 1,700 physicians prescribed the product. During the period between our commercial launch in October 2005 through the week ending February 3, 2006, prescription data for ZYFLO indicates that approximately 1,000 physicians prescribed the product. We may have difficulty expanding the prescriber and patient base for ZYFLO if physicians view the product 25 Table of Contents as less effective than other products on the market or view its clinical data as outdated. In addition, ZYFLO requires dosing four times per day, which some physicians and patients may find inconvenient compared to other available asthma therapies that require dosing only once or twice daily. Moreover, perceptions about the safety of ZYFLO could limit the market acceptance of ZYFLO and the controlled-release formulation of zileuton. In the placebo-controlled clinical trials that formed the basis for FDA approval of the NDA for ZYFLO, 1.9% of patients taking ZYFLO experienced increased levels of a liver enzyme called alanine transaminase, or ALT, of over three times the levels normally seen in the bloodstream, compared to 0.2% of patients receiving placebo. In addition, prior to FDA approval, a long-term trial was conducted in 2,947 patients to evaluate the safety of ZYFLO, particularly in relation to liver enzyme effects. In this safety trial, 4.6% of the patients taking ZYFLO experienced increased levels of ALT of over three times the levels normally seen in the bloodstream, compared to 1.1% of patients receiving placebo. The overall percentage of patients that experienced increases in ALT of over three times the levels normally seen in the bloodstream was 3.2% in approximately 5,000 asthma patients who received ZYFLO in the clinical trials that were reviewed by the FDA prior to its approval of ZYFLO. In these trials, one patient developed symptomatic hepatitis with jaundice, which resolved upon discontinuation of therapy, and three patients developed mild elevations in bilirubin, a protein. Furthermore, because ZYFLO can elevate liver enzyme levels, periodic liver function tests are recommended for patients taking ZYFLO and may be advisable for patients taking our other zileuton product candidates. Some physicians and patients may perceive liver function tests as inconvenient or indicative of safety issues, which could make them reluctant to prescribe or accept ZYFLO and other zileuton product candidates. As a result, many physicians may have negative perceptions about the safety of ZYFLO and other zileuton product candidates, which could limit their commercial acceptance. The absence of ZYFLO from the market prior to our commercial launch in October 2005 may have exacerbated any negative perceptions about ZYFLO if physicians believe the absence of ZYFLO from the market was related to safety or efficacy issues. The position of ZYFLO in managed care formularies, which are lists of products approved by managed care organizations, may also make it difficult to expand the current market for this product. As a result of a lack of a sustained sales and marketing effort prior to our commercial launch in October 2005, ZYFLO had been removed from some formularies or relegated to third-tier status, which requires the highest co-pay for patients. In addition, ZYFLO may have been removed from some managed care formularies as a result of the absence of ZYFLO from the market prior to our commercial launch. If we are unable to expand the use of ZYFLO or if any existing negative perceptions about ZYFLO persist, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance for our other oral zileuton product candidates, such as the controlled-release formulation of zileuton. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance of ZYFLO or the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, we will not generate significant revenues unless we are able to successfully develop and commercialize other product candidates. Our business will depend heavily on the commercial success of ZYFLO and, if approved for sale, the controlled-release formulation of zileuton. ZYFLO is our only commercial product. Other than the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, our product candidates are in early clinical, preclinical and research stages of development and are a number of years away from commercialization. As a result, ZYFLO and, if approved for sale, the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, will account for almost all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Research and development of product candidates is a lengthy and expensive process. Our early-stage product candidates in particular will require substantial funding for us to complete preclinical testing and clinical trials, initiate manufacturing and, if approved for sale, initiate commercialization. If ZYFLO and the controlled-release formulation of zileuton are not commercially successful, we may be forced to find additional sources of funding earlier than we anticipated. If we are not successful in obtaining additional funding on acceptable terms, we may be forced to significantly delay, limit or eliminate one or more of our research, development or commercialization programs. In addition, we may be forced to dismantle or redeploy the sales force that we built in connection with the launch of ZYFLO and the anticipated launch of other product candidates. 26 Table of Contents If we do not successfully recruit, train and retain qualified sales and marketing personnel and build and maintain an adequate marketing and sales infrastructure, our ability to independently launch and market our product candidates, including ZYFLO, will be impaired. We are independently selling and marketing ZYFLO. If approved for sale, we intend to independently launch and market the controlled-release formulation of zileuton and other product candidates. As of February 28, 2006, we had a sales force of approximately 80 sales representatives. The majority of these sales representatives joined us in 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had incurred sales and marketing costs of approximately $13.7 million, which included costs related to our launch of ZYFLO. We expect to incur additional costs as we further expand our sales and marketing efforts. We may not be able to attract, hire, train and retain qualified sales and marketing personnel to build and maintain a significant or effective sales force. If we are not successful in our efforts to develop and maintain an effective internal sales force, our ability to independently launch and market our product candidates, including ZYFLO and the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, will be impaired. We are investing significant amounts of money and management resources to develop internal sales and marketing capabilities. We are using a third party for distribution of ZYFLO. If we are unable to successfully commercialize ZYFLO, we will have incurred significant unrecoverable expenses. Likewise, if we further expand our sales force in anticipation of approval of the controlled-release formulation of zileuton or our other product candidates, we will incur significant costs. A failure to maintain appropriate inventory levels could harm our reputation and subject us to financial losses. We purchased quantities of raw materials and supplies of ZYFLO tablets in connection with the commercial launch of ZYFLO. In addition, we could be required to buy excess inventory to meet our minimum purchase obligations under our supply agreements with our third-party manufacturers. If we fail to successfully commercialize ZYFLO, our inventories could be materially impaired and their value diminished, and we will have incurred significant unrecoverable expenses. We have limited experience managing commercial supplies of ZYFLO since the launch in October 2005. Our current forecasting of inventory levels is based on our estimate of expected customer orders in combination with limited historical information regarding actual sales. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we made an adjustment to inventory of approximately $280,000 related to short dated product in our inventory. Significant differences between our current estimates and judgments and future estimated demand for our product and the useful life of inventory may result in significant charges for excess inventory or unnecessary purchase commitments in the future. These differences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations during the period in which we recognize charges for excess inventory. If we fail to maintain an adequate inventory or if our inventory were to be destroyed or damaged or reached its expiration date, patients might not have access to ZYFLO, our reputation and our brand could be harmed and physicians may be less likely to prescribe ZYFLO in the future. Conversely, if we are unable to sell our inventory in a timely manner, we could experience cash flow difficulties and additional financial losses. If the market is not receptive to our other product candidates, we will be unable to generate revenues from sales of these products. The probability of commercial success of each of our product candidates is subject to significant uncertainty. Factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates under development include: • the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approval and the countries in which approvals are obtained; • the safety, efficacy and ease of administration; • the therapeutic benefit or other improvement over existing comparable products; 27 Table of Contents • pricing and cost effectiveness; • the ability to be produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; • the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and Federal governments, under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans and managed care organizations; and • the extent and success of our sales and marketing efforts. The failure of our product candidates to achieve market acceptance would prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues from sales of these product candidates. We may not be successful in our efforts to advance and expand our portfolio of product candidates. A key element of our strategy is to develop and commercialize product candidates that address large unmet medical needs in the critical care market. We seek to do so through: • internal research programs; • sponsored research programs with academic and other research institutions and individual doctors, chemists and researchers; • in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates or approved products for the critical care market; and • collaborations with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with complementary clinical development or commercialization capabilities or capital to assist in funding product development and commercialization. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify new product candidates, whether conducted by us or by academic or other research institutions under sponsored research agreements, require substantial technical, financial and human resources. These research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development for a variety of reasons, including: • the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates; or • potential product candidates may, on further study, be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate that they are unlikely to be effective products. We may be unable to license or acquire suitable product candidates or products from third parties for a number of reasons. In particular, the licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products is competitive. A number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products in the critical care market. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources or greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. Other factors that may prevent us from licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable product candidates or approved products include the following: • we may be unable to license or acquire the relevant technology on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return from the product; • companies that perceive us as a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license their product rights to us; • we may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates within our areas of expertise; and • we may have inadequate cash resources or may be unable to access public or private financing to obtain rights to suitable products or product candidates from third parties. 28 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop suitable potential product candidates through internal research programs, sponsored research programs or by obtaining rights from third parties, we will not be able to increase our revenues in future periods, which could result in significant harm to our financial position and adversely impact our stock price. We face substantial competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, ZYFLO and our product candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive. We will face competition with respect to the development of product candidates and for ZYFLO and any other products that we commercialize in the future from pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, companies selling low-cost generic substitutes, academic institutions, government agencies or research institutions. A number of large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies currently market and sell products to treat asthma that compete with ZYFLO and, if approved for sale, the controlled-release formulation of zileuton. Many established therapies currently command large market shares in the mild to moderate asthma market, including Merck & Co., Inc.’s Singulair®, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Advair® and inhaled corticosteroid products. We will also face competition from other pharmaceutical companies seeking to develop drugs for the severe asthma market. The severe asthma market is currently served by the therapies developed for mild to moderate asthma and oral and injectable steroid treatments. One product, Xolair®, developed jointly by Novartis AG, Genentech, Inc. and Tanox, Inc., was approved in 2004 for severe allergic asthma and had U.S. sales of $320.6 million in 2005. Zileuton will also face intense competition if we are able to develop it as a treatment for COPD. COPD is currently treated predominantly with drugs that are indicated for use in asthma only or asthma and COPD, anti-cholinergic drugs and lung reduction surgery. Spiriva®, a once daily muscarinic antagonist from Boehringer Ingleheim GmbH and Pfizer, has been approved in Europe and the United States. Other novel approaches are also in the development process. Our therapeutic programs directed toward the body’s inflammatory response will compete predominantly with therapies that have been approved for diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, like Amgen, Inc.’s Enbrel®, Johnson & Johnson’s Remicade®, and Abbott Laboratories’ Humira®, and diseases such as sepsis, like Eli Lilly and Company’s Xigris®. Our competitors’ products may be safer, more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any of our products. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products; • more extensive experience than we have in conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • competing products that have already received regulatory approval or are in late-stage development; and • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. We will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our products, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products, or obtain more effective patent protection, than we are able to. Accordingly, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we are able to, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our product candidates will achieve initial market acceptance and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our product candidates. Even if our product candidates achieve initial market acceptance, competitive products may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. If our product candidates are rendered obsolete, we may not be able to recover the expenses of developing and commercializing those product candidates. 29 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and our operating results could be adversely affected. We will need to continue to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure to support the growth in our business. As we advance our product candidates through clinical trials, we will need to continue to expand our development, regulatory and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborators, suppliers and other third parties. Our need to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, our reporting systems and our procedures in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls that could expose us to an increased risk of incurring financial or accounting irregularities or fraud. If we are unable to retain key personnel and hire additional qualified scientific and other management personnel, we may not be able to successfully achieve our goals. We depend on the principal members of our scientific and management staff, including Paul D. Rubin, M.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, Frederick Finnegan, our Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Walter Newman, Ph.D., our Chief Scientific Officer and Senior Vice President of Research and Development, Trevor Phillips, Ph.D., our Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President of Operations and Frank E. Thomas, our Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President of Finance and Treasurer. The loss of any of these individuals’ services would diminish the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our research, development or commercialization objectives and could cause us to incur additional costs to recruit replacement executive personnel. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of these individuals or any of our other scientific and management staff. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and management personnel such as these individuals. We expect that our potential expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as clinical trials, governmental approvals, contract manufacturing and sales and marketing, will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect these demands will require us to hire additional management and scientific personnel and will require our existing management personnel to develop additional expertise. We face intense competition for personnel. The failure to attract and retain personnel or to develop such expertise could delay or halt the research, development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We will spend considerable time and money complying with Federal and state laws and regulations, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We are subject to extensive regulation by Federal and state governments. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our business include, but are not limited to, the following: • Federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws, which prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under Federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • other Medicare laws and regulations that establish the requirements for coverage and payment for our products, including the amount of such payments; • the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; 30 Table of Contents • the Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors and, further, requires us to comply with standards regarding privacy and security of individually identifiable health information and conduct certain electronic transactions using standardized code sets; • the Federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; • the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which regulates development, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of prescription drugs and medical devices; • the Federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, which regulates the distribution of drug samples to physicians and other prescribers who are authorized under state law to receive and dispense drug samples; • state and foreign law equivalents of the foregoing; • state food and drug laws, pharmacy acts and state pharmacy board regulations, which govern sale, distribution, use, administration and prescribing of prescription drugs; and • state laws that prohibit practice of medicine by non-physicians and fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians, as well as state law equivalents to the Federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items or services. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. In addition, if we are required to obtain permits or licenses under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims of a violation. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. If our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA. For example, we received a warning letter from the FDA on November 8, 2005 relating to certain promotional material that included an illustration of the mechanism of action for ZYFLO. The FDA asserted that the promotional material incorporating the illustration was false or misleading because it presented efficacy claims for ZYFLO, but failed to contain fair balance by not communicating the risks associated with its use and failing to present the approved indication for ZYFLO. In response to the warning letter, and as requested by the FDA, we stopped disseminating the promotional material containing the mechanism of action and we provided a written response to the FDA. As part of our response, we provided a description of our plan to disseminate corrective messages about the promotional material to those who received this material. We revised the promotional material containing the mechanism of action to address the FDA’s concerns regarding fair balance. If our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we could be subject to additional regulatory actions by the FDA, including product seizure, injunctions, and other penalties and our reputation and the reputation of ZYFLO in the market could be harmed. 31 Table of Contents Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from operating our business and damage our reputation or our brands. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change or discontinue our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. State pharmaceutical marketing and promotional compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. In recent years, several states, including California, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico, Vermont and West Virginia, and the District of Columbia have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs and file periodic reports with the state on sales, marketing, pricing, reporting pricing and other activities. For example, California has enacted a statute effective July 1, 2005 requiring pharmaceutical companies to adopt and post on their public web site a comprehensive compliance program that is in accordance with the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals and the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers. In addition, such compliance program must establish a specific annual dollar limit on gifts or other items given to individual healthcare professionals in California. Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico, Vermont, West Virginia and the District of Columbia have also enacted statutes of varying scope that impose reporting and disclosure requirements upon pharmaceutical companies pertaining to drug pricing and payments and costs associated with pharmaceutical marketing, advertising and promotional activities, as well as restrictions upon the types of gifts that may be provided to healthcare practitioners. Similar legislation is being considered in a number of other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available guidance is limited. We are in the process of identifying the universe of state laws applicable to pharmaceutical companies and are taking steps to ensure that we come into compliance with all such laws. Unless and until we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could materially harm our business. Our corporate compliance and corporate governance programs cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, marketing, sales and reimbursement of ZYFLO and our product candidates, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We are a relatively small company, with 175 employees as of December 31, 2005, the majority of whom joined us in 2005. We rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented and changing regulatory requirements, it is possible that we may not be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including significant fines, litigation or other sanctions. Any action against us for a violation of these regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention and harm our reputation. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to significant legal and regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations, some of which have either only recently been adopted or are subject to change. For example, we are incurring additional expenses and devoting significant management time and attention to evaluating our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If the controls and procedures that we implement do not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the Securities and 32 Table of Contents Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq National Market, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Nasdaq National Market. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in our company and our ability to access the capital markets. If we fail to develop and maintain adequate controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner, which could cause a decline in our stock price. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payors, and a reduction in payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. Our sales of ZYFLO are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and Federal governments, under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. There have been, there are and we expect there will continue to be, state and Federal legislative and administrative proposals that could limit the amount that state or Federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of pharmaceutical and biologic products. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, was signed into law in December 2003. We cannot predict the full impact of the MMA and its regulatory requirements on our business. However, legislative or administrative acts that reduce reimbursement for our products could adversely impact our business. In addition, we believe that private insurers, such as managed care organizations, or MCOs, may adopt their own reimbursement reductions in response to legislation. Any reduction in reimbursement for our products could materially harm our results of operations. In addition, we believe that the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact our product sales. Furthermore, when a new drug product is approved, governmental and private reimbursement for that product, and the amount for which that product will be reimbursed, are uncertain. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for ZYFLO or our product candidates, including those at a late stage of development, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. The MMA also establishes a prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. We cannot be certain that our products will be included in the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Even if our products are included, the MCOs, health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, preferred provider organizations, or PPOs, and private health plans that administer the Medicare drug benefit have the ability to negotiate price and demand discounts from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. On the other hand, the drug benefit may increase the volume of pharmaceutical drug purchases, offsetting at least in part these potential price discounts. In addition, MCOs, HMOs, PPOs, healthcare institutions and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. Because MCOs, HMOs and PPOs and private health plans will administer the Medicare drug benefit, managed care and private health plans will influence prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population. In addition, certain states have proposed and certain other states have adopted various programs to control prices for senior citizen and drug programs for people with low incomes, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, restrictions on access to certain products, and bulk purchasing of drugs. If we succeed in bringing products in addition to ZYFLO to the market, these products may not be considered cost effective and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our product candidates on a competitive basis to a sufficient patient population. Because our product candidates other than the controlled-release formulation of zileuton are in the development stage, we are unable at this time to determine the cost-effectiveness of these product candidates. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic trials in order to demonstrate their cost-effectiveness. Sales of prescription drugs are highly dependent on the availability and level of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. These third-party payors frequently require that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts or rebates from list prices, and third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products. Because our product candidates other than the controlled-release formulation of zileuton are in the development 33 Table of Contents stage, we do not know the level of reimbursement, if any, we will receive for those product candidates if they are successfully developed. If the reimbursement we receive for any of our product candidates is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our ability to realize profits from the affected product candidate would be limited. If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. If our Medicaid rebate program practices are investigated or if the Medicaid portion of our ZYFLO sales grows, the costs could be substantial and our operating results could be adversely affected. On January 1, 2006, we became a participant in the Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended effective in 1993. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of our product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law. We are also required to pay certain statutorily defined rebates on Medicaid purchases for reimbursement on prescription drugs under state Medicaid plans. Both the Federal government and state governments have initiated investigations into the rebate practices of many pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with these rebate programs. Any investigation of our rebate practices could be costly, could divert the attention of our management and could damage our reputation. In addition, because ZYFLO was previously marketed by Abbott prior to our licensing it, the rebate that we are required to pay to Medicaid for prescriptions filled by patients covered under a Medicaid program could be substantial. The calculation of the Medicaid rebate is based on the initial pricing set by Abbott with adjustments for inflation each year. Since the price set by Abbott for ZYFLO is below the price we are currently charging, we are subject to a Medicaid rebate of greater than 75% of our selling price. Based on historical prescribing patterns, we expect Medicaid business to be approximately 8% to 12% of total ZYFLO prescriptions. However, if the Medicaid portion of our ZYFLO sales were to increase such that Medicaid represented a larger than expected percentage of the mix of sales for ZYFLO, the increased level of rebates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim against us could interfere with the development and commercialization of our product candidates or subject us to unanticipated damages or settlement amounts. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing and sale of drugs. If the use of ZYFLO or one or more of our product candidates harms people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. We currently have a $20.0 million annual aggregate limit for insurance covering both product liability claims for ZYFLO and clinical trial liability claims for our product candidates. We may seek additional product liability insurance prior to marketing the controlled-release formulation of zileuton or any of our other product candidates. However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, product liability and clinical trial insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage, obtain additional insurance or obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that we have not anticipated in our business plans. Any product liability claim against us, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention and harm our reputation. 34 Table of Contents We handle hazardous materials and must comply with laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. If we are involved in a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. Our research and development work involves, and any future manufacturing processes that we conduct may involve, the use of hazardous, controlled and radioactive materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Despite precautionary procedures that we implement for handling and disposing of these materials, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. In the event of a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with laws and regulations in the future or we may be materially and adversely affected by current or future laws or regulations. While we have a property insurance policy that covers bio-contamination up to a $25,000 per-occurrence limit and covers radioactive contamination up to a $25,000 per-occurrence limit, this policy may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses, damages, penalties or costs relating to accidental contamination or injury as a result of hazardous, controlled or radioactive materials. Risks Relating to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates If we do not obtain the regulatory approvals or clearances required to market and sell the controlled-release formation of zileuton or our other product candidates under development, our business may be unsuccessful. Neither we nor any of our collaborators may market any of our products in the United States, Europe or in any other country without marketing approval from the FDA or the equivalent foreign regulatory agency. ZYFLO is our only commercial product and can only be marketed in the United States. Before we can submit a NDA to the FDA for the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, we must generate satisfactory comparative bioavailability data from two clinical trials in healthy volunteers designed to show that our manufactured tablets behave similarly in the body to the tablets that had been manufactured by Abbott. These studies have been completed in the clinic and we are awaiting completion of the analysis of the blood samples generated in the studies. Once these data are known and we complete 6 months of stability assessment, we believe we will be able to submit the NDA in mid-2006. In May 2005, we held a pre-NDA meeting with the FDA, during which the FDA informed us that new review guidance issued in April 2005 limits its ability to accept additional data during the NDA review process. Our strategy has been to file the NDA with six months of stability data and provide additional stability data during the NDA review period. We will continue to work with the FDA to explore what options may be available to us regarding a submission based on an initial six months of stability data. If the FDA requires nine or twelve months of stability data in the original NDA, this could delay our NDA submission for the product candidate by three to six months, depending upon the outcome of discussions with the FDA close to the planned time of filing. Abbott conducted all of the preclinical and clinical trials on the controlled-release formulation of zileuton before we in-licensed the product candidate. We intend to rely on the results of these prior pivotal clinical trials to support our NDA. If the FDA does not permit us to rely on the prior clinical data or if the data at the clinical sites do not pass FDA audits, we could be required to repeat some or all of the clinical trials, which would lead to unanticipated costs and delays. Problems with the previous trials, such as incomplete or otherwise unacceptable data, could cause our NDA to be delayed or rejected. The regulatory process to obtain market approval or clearance for a new drug or biologic takes many years, requires expenditures of substantial resources, is uncertain and is subject to unanticipated delays. We have had only limited experience in preparing applications and obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances. Adverse side effects of a product candidate in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities refusing to approve or clear a particular product candidate for any or all indications for use. 35 Table of Contents The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the drug approval process and can deny, delay or limit approval of a product candidate for a variety of reasons. If we do not receive required regulatory approval or clearance to market the controlled-release formulation of zileuton or any of our other product candidates under development, our ability to generate product revenue and achieve profitability, our reputation and our ability to raise additional capital will be materially impaired. If clinical trials for our product candidates are not successful, we may not be able to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize these product candidates successfully. Our product candidates are still in development and remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval or clearance. In order to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we and our collaborators will be required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. We may not be able to obtain authority from the FDA, institutional review boards or other regulatory agencies to commence or complete these clinical trials. If permitted, such clinical testing may not prove that our product candidates are safe and effective to the extent necessary to permit us to obtain marketing approvals or clearances from regulatory authorities. One or more of our product candidates may not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans, may cause harmful side effects or have other unexpected characteristics that may delay or preclude submission and regulatory approval or clearance or limit commercial use if approved or cleared. Furthermore, we, one of our collaborators, institutional review boards, or regulatory agencies may hold, suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if it is believed that the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Preclinical testing and clinical trials of new drug and biologic candidates are lengthy and expensive and the historical failure rate for such candidates is high. We may not be able to advance any more product candidates into clinical trials. Even if we do successfully enter into clinical trials, the results from preclinical testing of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. In addition, positive results demonstrated in preclinical studies and clinical trials that we complete may not be indicative of results obtained in additional clinical trials. Clinical trials may take several years to complete, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our product candidates could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, result in increased costs and significantly delay the submission for marketing approval or clearance for such product candidates with the FDA or other regulatory authorities or result in a submission or approval for a narrower indication. If clinical trials fail, our product candidates may not become commercially viable. If clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed, we would be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay the receipt of any revenues from product sales. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause regulatory authorities, institutional review boards or us to delay or suspend those clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from institutional review boards or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials; • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients and volunteers in clinical trials; 36 Table of Contents • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive or negative results or poorly executed testing; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • unfavorable FDA inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in ongoing or past clinical trials for the same or a different indication; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects observed during ongoing or past prelinical studies; or • the placement of a clinical hold on a trial. Our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, competing trials with other product candidates and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials and thereby impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. We expect to rely on academic institutions and clinical research organizations to supervise or monitor some or all aspects of the clinical trials for the product candidates we advance into clinical testing. Accordingly, we have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. As a result of these factors, we or third parties on whom we rely may not successfully begin or complete our clinical trials in the time periods we have forecasted, if at all. If the results of our ongoing or planned clinical trials for our product candidates are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delay in the analysis of data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials, we may be unable to submit for regulatory approval or clearance or conduct additional clinical trials on the schedule we currently anticipate. If clinical trials are delayed, the commercial viability of our product candidates may be reduced. If we incur costs and delays in our programs, or if we do not successfully develop and commercialize our products, our future operating and financial results will be materially affected. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals or clearances, our product candidates will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and applicable foreign regulations, we could lose permission to manufacture and distribute our products and the sale of our product candidates could be suspended. Our product candidates are subject to continuing regulatory review after approval, including the review of spontaneous adverse drug experiences and clinical results from any post-market testing required as a condition of approval that are reported after our product candidates become commercially available. The manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities we use to make any of our product candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Our product promotion and advertising will also be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing FDA review. 37 Table of Contents If we or our third-party manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell our product candidates and may harm our reputation. If we or our third-party manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to develop, market and sell our product candidates successfully and could harm our reputation and lead to less market acceptance of our product candidates. These enforcement actions include: • product seizures; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • suspension of review or refusal to approve pending applications; • voluntary or mandatory patient or physician notification; • withdrawal of product approvals; • restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our product candidates; • restrictions on applying for or obtaining government bids; • fines; • restrictions on importation of our product candidates; • injunctions; and • civil and criminal penalties. Risks Relating to Our Dependence on Third Parties We depend on MedImmune and Beckman Coulter and expect to depend on additional collaborators in the future for a portion of our revenues and to develop, conduct clinical trials with, obtain regulatory approvals for, and manufacture, market and sell some of our product candidates. These collaborations may not be successful. We are relying on MedImmune to fund the development of and to commercialize product candidates in our HMGB1 program. We are relying on Beckman Coulter to fund the development and to commercialize diagnostics in our HMGB1 program. All of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 were derived from fees paid to us by MedImmune. Our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 were derived from fees paid to us by MedImmune and Beckman Coulter under our collaboration agreements with them and revenue from the sale of ZYFLO beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005; however, a significant portion of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 continued to be derived from our collaboration agreements with MedImmune and Beckman Coulter. Additional payments due to us under the collaboration agreements with MedImmune and Beckman Coulter are generally based on our achievement of specific development and commercialization milestones that we may not meet. In addition, the collaboration agreements entitle us to royalty payments that are based on the sales of products developed and marketed through the collaborations. These future royalty payments may not materialize or may be less than expected if the related products are not successfully developed or marketed or if we are forced to license intellectual property from third parties. Accordingly, we cannot predict if our collaborations with MedImmune and Beckman Coulter will continue to generate revenues for us. Our collaboration agreement with MedImmune generally is terminable by MedImmune at any time upon six months notice or upon our material uncured breach of the agreement. Under the collaboration agreement, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable, good faith efforts to conduct the collaboration in accordance with rolling three-year research plans that describe and allocate between MedImmune and us responsibility for, among other things, the proposed research, preclinical studies, toxicology formulation 38 Table of Contents activities and clinical studies for that time period. In addition, we and MedImmune agreed to work exclusively in the development and commercialization of HMGB1-inhibiting products for a period of four years, and, after such time, we have agreed to work exclusively with MedImmune in the development of HMGB1-inhibiting products for the remaining term of the agreement. If MedImmune were to terminate or breach our arrangement, and we were unable to enter into a similar collaboration agreement with another qualified third party in a timely manner or devote sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization on our own, the development and commercialization of our HMGB1 program likely would be delayed, curtailed or terminated. The delay or termination of our HMGB1 program could significantly harm our future prospects. We intend to enter into collaboration agreements with other parties in the future that relate to other product candidates, and we are likely to have similar risks with regard to any such future collaborations. Our license agreement with Beckman Coulter relating to diagnostic assays for HMGB1 will terminate if Beckman Coulter does not exercise its option to continue the license by a future date. In addition, Beckman Coulter has the right to terminate the license agreement on 90-days written notice. Each party has the right to terminate the license agreement upon the occurrence of a material uncured breach by the other party. If Beckman Coulter were to terminate or breach our arrangement, and we were unable to enter into a similar agreement with another qualified third party in a timely manner or devote sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization on our own, the development and commercialization of a diagnostic based on the detection of HMGB1 likely would be delayed, curtailed or terminated. In addition, our collaborations with MedImmune and Beckman Coulter and any future collaborative arrangements that we enter into with third parties may not be scientifically or commercially successful. Factors that may affect the success of our collaborations include the following: • our collaborators may be pursuing alternative technologies or developing alternative products, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that may be competitive with the product on which they are collaborating with us or that could affect our collaborators’ commitment to us; • reductions in marketing or sales efforts or a discontinuation of marketing or sales of our products by our collaborators would reduce our revenues, which we expect will be based on a percentage of net sales by collaborators; • our collaborators may terminate their collaborations with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities; • our collaborators may not devote sufficient time and resources to any collaboration with us, which could prevent us from realizing the potential commercial benefits of that collaboration; and • our collaborators may pursue higher priority programs or change the focus of their development programs, which could affect their commitments to us. We rely on third parties to manufacture and supply the zileuton API, ZYFLO and our product candidates. We expect to continue to rely on third parties for these purposes and would incur significant costs to independently develop manufacturing facilities. We have no manufacturing facilities and limited manufacturing experience. In order to continue to develop product candidates, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize products, we need to develop, contract for or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We currently rely on third parties for production of commercial supplies of the zileuton API and ZYFLO and the production of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing purposes. We expect to continue to rely on third parties for these purposes for the foreseeable future. We have contracted with Rhodia Pharma Solutions Ltd. for commercial production of the zileuton API, subject to specified limitations, through December 31, 2009. Rhodia SA, the parent company of 39 Table of Contents Rhodia Pharma Solutions, has experienced significant operating losses since 2001. In 2003, Rhodia SA initiated a corporate reorganization plan to refocus its business portfolio, and has divested a number of its operating units since that time. In addition, Rhodia SA publicly announced that it incurred a €101 million charge in the second quarter of 2005 to fully write off the value of Rhodia Pharma Solutions. On January 5, 2006, Rhodia SA announced that it had signed a letter of intent to sell Rhodia Pharma Solutions to Shasun Chemicals & Drugs Ltd., which is listed on the Bombay stock exchange. Rhodia has announced that this sale will complete in the first half of 2006. Based on discussions with Rhodia, we expect that the manufacture of zileuton API will not be affected by the sale. The manufacturing process for the zileuton API involves an exothermic reaction that generates heat and, if not properly controlled by the safety and protection mechanisms in place at the manufacturing sites, could result in unintended combustion of the product. The manufacture of the API could be disrupted or delayed if a batch is discontinued or damaged, if the manufacturing sites were damaged, or if local health and safety regulations require a third-party manufacturer to implement additional safety procedures or cease production. We have contracted with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc. for the manufacture of commercial supplies of ZYFLO tablets. We have contracted with Patheon for a technology transfer program to enable Patheon to coat and package the core tablets of the controlled-release formulation of zileuton for clinical trials and regulatory review, and, subject to negotiation of a commercial manufacturing agreement, commercial supplies. We have contracted with SkyePharma PLC, through its subsidiary Jagotec AG, for the manufacture of tablets of the controlled-release formulation of zileuton for clinical trials, regulatory review and, subject to negotiation of a commercial manufacturing agreement, commercial supplies. SkyePharma announced that it was the target of an unsolicited acquisition bid in November 2005. SkyePharma subsequently announced that it had retained an investment bank to consider strategic options, including the sale of the company. In February 2006, SkyePharma announced a new senior management team and the conclusion of its strategic review, deciding to concentrate on oral and pulmonary products and divest its injectable business. Sale of SkyePharma as a whole or in parts may impact our ability to produce the controlled-release formulation of zileuton and may affect our schedule for the submission of the NDA for the controlled-release formulation of zileuton. We have not secured a long-term commercial supply arrangement for any of our product candidates other than the zileuton API. The manufacturing process for our product candidates is an element of the FDA approval process. We will need to contract with manufacturers who can meet the FDA requirements, including current Good Manufacturing Practices, on an ongoing basis. As part of obtaining regulatory approval for the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, we are required to engage a commercial manufacturer to produce registration and validation batches of the drug consistent with regulatory approval requirements. In addition, if we receive the necessary regulatory approval for our product candidates, we also expect to rely on third parties, including our collaborators, to produce materials required for commercial production. We may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate manufacturing capacity or timing for our needs. If we are unable to obtain or maintain contract manufacturing of these product candidates, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. We are dependent upon Rhodia Pharma Solutions, Patheon and SkyePharma as sole providers, and will be dependent on any other third parties who manufacture our product candidates, to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable government regulations. If third-party manufacturers with whom we contract fail to perform their obligations, we may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including the following: • we may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of our product candidates that are under development; • we may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for our product candidates; 40 Table of Contents • we may be required to cease distribution or issue recalls; and • we may not be able to meet commercial demands. If we were required to change manufacturers for the zileuton API, ZYFLO or the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, we would be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and all applicable regulations and guidelines, including FDA requirements and approved NDA product specifications. Any delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could adversely affect our production schedule or increase our production costs. We rely on a single source supplier for one of the starting materials for zileuton, and the loss of that supplier could prevent us from selling ZYFLO. Sumitomo is currently the only qualified supplier of a chemical known as 2-ABT, one of the starting materials for the zileuton API. Rhodia Pharma Solutions, which supplies us with the zileuton API, has an agreement with Sumitomo for the supply of 2-ABT. If Sumitomo stops manufacturing or is unable to manufacture 2-ABT, or if Rhodia is unable to procure 2-ABT from Sumitomo on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue to sell ZYFLO on commercially viable terms, if at all. In addition, Rhodia’s inability to procure 2-ABT could also impact our ability to commercialize the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, if it is approved by the FDA. Furthermore, because Sumitomo is currently the sole supplier of 2-ABT, Sumitomo has unilateral control over the price of 2-ABT. Any increase in the price for 2-ABT may reduce our gross margins. Any failure to manage and maintain our distribution network could compromise ZYFLO sales and harm our business. We rely on third parties to distribute ZYFLO to pharmacies. We have contracted with Integrated Commercialization Services, Inc., or ICS, a third-party logistics company, to warehouse ZYFLO and distribute it to three primary wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health and McKesson Corporation, and a number of smaller wholesalers. The wholesalers in turn distribute it to chain and independent pharmacies. ICS is our exclusive supplier of commercial distribution logistics services. We rely on Phoenix Marketing Group LLC to distribute ZYFLO samples to our sales representatives, who in turn distribute samples to physicians and other prescribers who are authorized under state law to receive and dispense samples. We have contracted with RxHope, Inc. to implement a patient assistance program for ZYFLO. We rely on RxHope to administer our patient assistance program and to distribute ZYFLO to physicians and other prescribers who are authorized under state law to receive and dispense samples. This distribution network requires significant coordination with our supply chain, sales and marketing and finance organizations. Failure to maintain our contracts with our logistics company, the wholesalers, Phoenix and RxHope, or the inability or failure of any of them to adequately perform as agreed under their respective contracts with us, could negatively impact us. We do not have our own warehouse or distribution capabilities, and moreover we lack the resources and experience to establish any of these functions and do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. We would be unable to replace ICS, AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal, McKesson, Phoenix or RxHope in a timely manner in the event of a natural disaster, failure to meet FDA and other regulatory requirements, business failure, strike or any other difficulty affecting any of them, and the distribution of ZYFLO could be delayed or interrupted, damaging our results of operations and market position. Failure to coordinate financial systems could also negatively impact our ability to accurately report and forecast product sales and fulfill our regulatory obligations. If we are unable to effectively manage and maintain our distribution network, sales of ZYFLO could be severely compromised and our business could be harmed. If we are unable to enter into additional collaboration agreements, we may not be able to continue development of our product candidates. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses to be incurred in connection with these activities. We 41 Table of Contents may seek to enter into additional collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical companies to fund all or part of the costs of drug development and commercialization of product candidates. We may not be able to enter into future collaboration agreements, and the terms of the collaboration agreements, if any, may not be favorable to us. If we are not successful in efforts to enter into a collaboration arrangement with respect to a product candidate, we may not have sufficient funds to develop any of our product candidates internally. If we do not have sufficient funds to develop our product candidates, we will not be able to bring these product candidates to market and generate revenue. In addition, our inability to enter into collaboration agreements could delay or preclude the development, manufacture and/or commercialization of a product candidate and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because: • we may be required to expend our own funds to advance the product candidate to commercialization; • revenue from product sales could be delayed; or • we may elect not to commercialize the product candidate. We plan to rely significantly on third parties to market some product candidates and these third parties may not successfully commercialize these product candidates. For product candidates with large target physician markets, we plan to rely significantly on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties. For example, we plan to rely on MedImmune for the commercialization of any anti-HMGB1 products that we develop, and we plan to rely on Beckman Coulter for the commercialization of any diagnostic assay for HMGB1. We may not be successful in entering into additional marketing arrangements in the future and, even if successful, we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, we may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties. If these third parties are not successful in commercializing the products covered by these arrangements, our future revenues may suffer. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and Licenses If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent and other intellectual property protection for our discoveries, our ability to prevent third parties from using our inventions and proprietary information will be limited and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary products, methods and technologies that we invent and develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. Because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date that will not be filed in foreign countries and for which a request for non-publication is filed, third parties may have already filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over any patent applications of others. There may also be prior art that may prevent allowance of our patent applications. Our patent strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. This process is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely or successful manner. Moreover, the mere issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable. As a result, even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. In addition, the patent positions of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is 42 Table of Contents also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims which will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others with respect to our products in the future. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to, or independently developed by a competitor, any competitive advantage that we may have had in the development or commercialization of our product candidates would be minimized or eliminated. Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. If we are unsuccessful in litigation concerning patents or patent applications owned or co-owned by us or licensed to us, we may not be able to protect our products from competition or we may be precluded from selling our products. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in, or prevent us from, bringing products to market and harm our ability to operate. Our success will depend in part on our ability to uphold and enforce the patents or patent applications owned or co-owned by us or licensed to us that cover our products and product candidates. Litigation, interferences or other adversarial proceedings relating to our patents or applications could take place in the United States in a federal court or in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other administrative agencies. These proceedings could also take place in a foreign country, in either the court or the patent office of that country. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications could result in adverse decisions regarding: • the patentability of our inventions, including those relating to our products; or • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents, including those relating to our products. These proceedings are costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial cost and divert time and attention of our management and scientific personnel in pursuit of these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to avoid infringement of the patent rights of others. For example, we are aware of third-party patents and patent applications that relate to a class of chemicals known as pyruvates, of which CTI-01, one of our product candidates currently in development, is a member. We believe that our anticipated uses of CTI-01 do not infringe any valid third-party patents. If any use of CTI-01 that we pursue for a particular indication were found to infringe a valid third-party patent, we could be precluded from selling CTI-01 for that indication and be forced to pay damages. If it is determined that we do infringe a patent right of another, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patent in court. In addition, if we are not successful in infringement litigation brought against us and we do not license or develop non-infringing technology, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights; • encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market; or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our products or methods of treatment. If any parties should successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity. Moreover, any legal action 43 Table of Contents against us or our collaborators claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected products and processes could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require us or our collaborators to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. Any such required license may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology or products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. In addition, our MedImmune collaboration provides that a portion of the royalties payable to us by MedImmune for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by MedImmune to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenues. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. We in-license a significant portion of our principal proprietary technologies, and if we fail to comply with our obligations under any of the related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary to develop and market HMGB1 products and some of our other product candidates. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary for our business. In fact, we acquired the rights to each of our product candidates under licenses with third parties. These licenses impose various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence and other obligations on us. If we breach these obligations, our licensors may have the right to terminate the licenses or render the licenses non-exclusive, which would result in our being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology, or at least to do so on an exclusive basis. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, it is our general practice to enter into confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information and, in such cases, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing We have incurred losses since inception and we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. If we do not generate significant revenues, we will not be able to achieve profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses in each year since our inception in 2000. We had net losses of $47.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $105.6 million. As of December 31, 2005, we recorded $387,000 of revenue from the sale of ZYFLO and have not recorded revenue from any other product. We expect that we will continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future as we spend significant amounts to fund our research, development and commercialization efforts and to enhance our core technologies. We expect that the losses that we incur will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that these fluctuations may 44 Table of Contents be substantial. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability. Until we are able to generate such revenues, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations. We will require substantial additional capital to fund our operations. If additional capital is not available, we may need to delay, limit or eliminate our development and commercialization processes. We expect to devote substantial resources to continue our research and development efforts, including preclinical testing and clinical trials, expand our sales and marketing infrastructure, achieve regulatory approvals, commercialize ZYFLO and, subject to regulatory approval, commercially launch the controlled-release formulation of zileuton and any future product candidates. Our funding requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: • the costs of ongoing sales and marketing for ZYFLO; • the timing, receipt and amount of sales from ZYFLO; • the costs and timing of the development, regulatory submission and approval and the commercial launch of the controlled-release formulation of zileuton, if and when it is approved by regulatory authorities; • the scope and results of our clinical trials; • advancements of other product candidates into development; • potential acquisition or in-licensing of other products or technologies; • the time and costs involved in preparing, submitting, obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals; • the timing, receipt and amount of milestone and other payments, if any, from MedImmune, Beckman Coulter or future collaborators; • the timing, receipt and amount of sales and royalties, if any, from our potential products; • continued progress in our research and development programs, as well as the magnitude of these programs; • the cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales activities; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • the cost of obtaining and maintaining licenses to use patented technologies; • our ability to establish and maintain additional collaborative arrangements; and • the ongoing time and costs involved in certain corporate governance requirements, including work related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Other than payments that we receive from our collaborations with MedImmune and Beckman Coulter, we expect that sales of ZYFLO will represent our only source of operating income until we commercially launch the controlled-release formulation of zileuton if it is approved. In addition to the foregoing factors, we believe that our ability to access external funds will depend upon the market acceptance of ZYFLO, the success of our other preclinical and clinical development programs, the receptivity of the capital markets to financings by biopharmaceutical companies, our ability to enter into additional strategic collaborations with corporate and academic collaborators and the success of such collaborations. The extent of our future capital requirements is difficult to assess and will depend largely on our ability to sell ZYFLO and obtain regulatory approval for and successfully commercialize the controlled-release formulation of zileuton. Based on our operating plans, we believe that our available cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash received from product sales and anticipated payments received under collaboration agreements will be sufficient to fund anticipated levels of operations until the second quarter of 2007. 45 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2005, our net cash used for operating activities was $45.0 million and we had capital expenditures of $2.2 million. If our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements or if we acquire or license rights to additional product candidates, we may need to raise additional external funds through collaborative arrangements and public or private financings. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the terms of the financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our then-existing stockholders will result. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly delay, limit or eliminate one or more of our research, development or commercialization programs, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products which we would otherwise pursue on our own. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from these reflected in our projections. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will be correct. If our estimates are inaccurate, this could adversely affect our stock price. Changes in or interpretations of accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of employee stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our compensation policies. Accounting methods and policies for business and market practices of biopharmaceutical companies are subject to review, interpretation and guidance from relevant accounting authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. For example, a new accounting rule, which will become effective for us on January 1, 2006, requires us to record stock-based compensation expense for the fair value of stock options granted to employees. We rely heavily on stock options to compensate existing employees and attract new employees. Adoption of the new accounting rule on stock-based compensation expense is expected to increase net losses or reduce net income in future periods. Because we will be required to expense stock options, we may reduce our reliance on stock options as a compensation tool. If we reduce our reliance on stock options, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we do not reduce our reliance on stock options, our reported losses would increase. Although we believe that our accounting practices are consistent with current accounting pronouncements, changes to or interpretations of accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price is subject to fluctuation, which may cause an investment in our stock to suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. 46 Table of Contents If our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may subject our stock price to volatility, which may cause an investment in our stock to suffer a decline in value. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors, many of which are not within our control, could subject our operating results and stock price to volatility, including: • the amount and timing of sales of ZYFLO; • the timing of operating expenses, including selling and marketing expenses and the costs of maintaining a direct sales force; • the availability and timely delivery of a sufficient supply of ZYFLO; • the amount of rebates, discounts and chargebacks to be wholesalers, Medicaid and managed care organizations related to ZYFLO; • the amount and timing of product returns for ZYFLO; • achievement of, or the failure to achieve, milestones under our development agreement with MedImmune, our license agreement with Beckman Coulter and, to the extent applicable, other licensing and collaboration agreements; • the results of ongoing and planned clinical trials of our product candidates; • production problems occurring at our third party manufacturers; • the results of regulatory reviews relating to the development or approval of our product candidates; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures. Due to the possibility of significant fluctuations, we do not believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results will necessarily be indicative of our future operating performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline. If significant business or product announcements by us or our competitors cause fluctuations in our stock price, an investment in our stock may suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility as a result of announcements by us or other companies in our industry, including our collaborators. Announcements which may subject the price of our common stock to substantial volatility include announcements regarding: • our operating results, including the amount and timing of sales of ZYFLO; • our licensing and collaboration agreements and the products or product candidates that are the subject of those agreements; • the results of discovery, preclinical studies and clinical trials by us or our competitors; • the acquisition of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; • the development of new technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; • regulatory actions with respect to our product candidates or products or those of our competitors; and • significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors. 47 Table of Contents Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, including a transaction in which our stockholders could sell or exchange their shares for a premium. As of February 28, 2006, our directors, executive officers and 5% or greater stockholders, together with their affiliates, to our knowledge, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 64.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our directors, executive officers and 5% or greater stockholders, together with their affiliates, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management or our board and hinder efforts by a third party to acquire a controlling interest in us. We are incorporated in Delaware. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control more difficult, even if the stockholders desire a change in control. For example, our anti-takeover provisions include provisions in our by-laws providing that stockholders’ meetings may be called only by the president or the majority of the board of directors and a provision in our certificate of incorporation providing that our stockholders may not take action by written consent. Additionally, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we issue. As a result, our issuance of preferred stock could cause the market value of our common stock to decline and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Delaware law also prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. The board may use this provision to prevent changes in our management. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 