ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the section entitled “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred significant operating losses since inception, are currently selling the OmniPod System at a loss and cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability. Since our inception in 2000, we have incurred losses every quarter. We began commercial sales of the OmniPod System in October 2005 and we are currently not able to manufacture and sell the OmniPod System at a cost and in volumes sufficient to allow us to achieve profitability. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, our gross loss from the manufacture and sale of the OmniPod System was $12.4 million. The extent of our future operating losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred a significant net loss since our inception, including a net loss of $53.5 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $155.6 million. As we have grown our business, our net loss has increased each quarter and we expect our rate of loss to continue to increase on a quarterly basis into 2008 as we expand our commercial infrastructure. We currently rely entirely on sales of our sole product, the OmniPod System, to generate revenues. The failure of the OmniPod System to achieve and maintain significant market acceptance or any factors that negatively impact sales of this product will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sole product is the OmniPod System, which we introduced to the market in October 2005. We expect to derive substantially all of our revenue from the sale of this product. Accordingly, our ability to generate revenues is entirely reliant on our ability to market and sell the devices that comprise the OmniPod System. Our sales of the OmniPod System may be negatively impacted by many factors, including: • the failure of the OmniPod System to achieve acceptance among opinion leaders in the diabetes treatment community, insulin-prescribing physicians, third-party payors and people with insulin-dependent diabetes; • manufacturing problems; • changes in reimbursement rates or policies relating to the OmniPod System by third-party payors; 13 Table of Contents • claims that any portion of the OmniPod System infringes on patent rights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties; • adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to the OmniPod System; • damage, destruction or loss of any of our automated assembly units; • conversion of patient referrals to actual sales of the OmniPod System; • collection of receivables from our customers; • competitive pricing and related factors; and • results of clinical studies relating to the OmniPod System or our competitors’ products. If any of these events occurs, our ability to generate revenues could be significantly reduced. Our ability to achieve profitability from a current net loss level will depend on our ability to reduce the per unit cost of producing the OmniPod through the successful implementation of our automated manufacturing strategy and our plan to purchase complete OmniPods manufactured in China. Currently, the sale price of the OmniPod System is not sufficient to cover our direct manufacturing costs. We are in the process of completing the construction, testing and installation of automated manufacturing equipment to be used in the assembly of the OmniPod in order to increase our manufacturing volume. Increased volumes will allow for volume purchase discounts to reduce our raw material costs and improve absorption of manufacturing overhead costs. During 2008, we expect to complete the planned automation of our existing manufacturing line at our facility in Bedford, Massachusetts. Pending construction and installation of the remaining automated manufacturing equipment that we plan to use, we are manually performing these steps in the manufacturing process, which limits our ability to increase our manufacturing capacity and decrease our per unit cost of goods sold, thereby causing us to incur negative gross margins. In addition, we expect that during 2008, construction of a partially automated manufacturing line will be completed at a facility in China operated by a subsidiary of Flextronics International Ltd. We cannot assure you that we will successfully complete the planned automation of our existing manufacturing line or subsequent lines in the future, complete construction of the partially automated line in China or otherwise reduce the per unit cost of manufacturing the OmniPod. Failure to do so would limit our production capacity and our ability to reduce raw material and manufacturing overhead costs. If we are unable to reduce raw material and manufacturing overhead costs through volume purchase discounts and increased production capacity, our ability to achieve profitability will be severely constrained. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations. We rely on a number of suppliers who manufacture the components of the OmniPods and PDMs. For example, we rely on Phillips Plastic Corporation to manufacture and supply a number of injection molded components of the OmniPod, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. to manufacture and supply the application specific integrated circuit that is incorporated into the OmniPod and a subsidiary of Flextronics International Ltd. to manufacture a sub-assembly of some of the OmniPod’s components. Each of these suppliers is a sole-source supplier. In addition, we have recently expanded the scope of our existing contract manufacturing agreement with a subsidiary of Flextronics International Ltd. in China to cover the supply of complete OmniPods. We do not have long-term supply agreements with most of our suppliers, and, in many cases, we make our purchases on a purchase order basis. In some other cases, where we do have agreements in place, our agreements with our suppliers can be terminated by either party upon short notice. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which 14 Table of Contents could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand. Our reliance on these third-party suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: • we are not a major customer of many of our suppliers, and these suppliers may therefore give other customers’ needs higher priority than ours; • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • our suppliers, especially new suppliers, may make errors in manufacturing that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of the OmniPod System or cause delays in shipment; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our sole-source supplies; • switching components may require product redesign and submission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, of a 510(k) supplement; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver products to us in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers, particularly for our sole-source suppliers, in part because of the FDA approval process and because of the custom nature of various parts we require. Any interruption or delay in obtaining products from our third-party suppliers, or our inability to obtain products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competing products. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks. In order to reduce our cost of goods sold and increase our production capacity, we increasingly rely on third party suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, on January 3, 2007, we entered into a non-exclusive contract manufacturing agreement with a subsidiary of Flextronics International Ltd. for the supply of a sub-assembly of some of the OmniPod’s components. In the second quarter of 2007, we received initial shipments of OmniPod sub-assemblies from Flextronics under the agreement. On October 4, 2007, we expanded the scope of that agreement to cover the production of complete OmniPods. During 2008, we expect to complete the construction of a partially automated manufacturing line at a facility in China operated by Flextronics. As a result, our business will become increasingly subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • instability in the political or economic conditions; • trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • difficulties associated with foreign legal systems; • differing protection of intellectual property; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. In particular, as the number of OmniPods manufactured in China increases, our future success will depend in large part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with doing business in China. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our production capacity and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Failure to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for the OmniPod System by third-party payors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that sales of the OmniPod System will be limited unless a substantial portion of the sales price of the OmniPod System is paid for by third-party payors, including private insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care providers. As of December 31, 2007, we had entered into contracts establishing reimbursement for the OmniPod System with national and regional third-party payors covering an estimated 146 million lives. These contracts provide reimbursement in each of the 38 states in which we currently market the OmniPod System. While we anticipate entering into additional contracts with other third-party payors doing business in these states, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in doing so. In addition, these contracts can generally be terminated by the third-party payor without cause. Also, healthcare market initiatives in the United States may lead third-party payors to decline or reduce reimbursement for the OmniPod System. Moreover, compliance with administrative procedures or requirements of third-party payors may result in delays in processing approvals by those payors for patients to obtain coverage for the use of the OmniPod System. We are an approved Medicare provider and current Medicare coverage for CSII therapy does exist. However, existing Medicare coverage for CSII therapy is based on the pricing structure developed for conventional insulin pumps. Currently, we believe that the coding verification for Medicare reimbursement of the OmniPod System is inappropriate and we are therefore in the process of seeking appropriate coding verification. As a result, we have decided to focus our initial efforts in establishing reimbursement for the OmniPod System by negotiating contracts with private insurers. Failure to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for the OmniPod System by third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from numerous competitors, most of whom have far greater resources than we have, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration and which may allow them to develop additional products for the treatment of diabetes that compete with the OmniPod System. The medical device industry is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. The OmniPod System competes with a number of existing insulin delivery devices as well as other methods for the treatment of diabetes. Medtronic MiniMed, a division of Medtronic, Inc., has been the market leader for many years and has the majority share of the conventional insulin pump market in the United States. Other significant suppliers in the United States are Animas Corporation, a division of Johnson & Johnson, and Deltec, a division of Smiths Medical MD, Inc. In October 2006, following the lifting of an FDA ban on the import of Disetronic insulin pumps, Roche Disetronic, a division of Roche Diagnostics, announced its re-entry into the conventional insulin pump market in the United States. All of these competitors are large, well-capitalized companies with significantly more market share and resources than we have. As a consequence, they are able to spend more aggressively on product development, marketing, sales and other product initiatives than we can. Many of these competitors have: • significantly greater name recognition; • established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • established distribution networks; • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or other incentives to gain a competitive advantage; and/or • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation. We also compete with multiple daily injection, or MDI, therapy, which is substantially less expensive than CSII therapy. MDI therapy has been made more effective by the introduction of long-acting insulin analogs by both sanofi-aventis and Novo Nordisk A/S. While we believe that CSII therapy, in general, and the OmniPod 16 Table of Contents System, in particular, have significant competitive and clinical advantages over traditional MDI therapy, improvements in the effectiveness of MDI therapy may result in fewer people with insulin-dependent diabetes converting from MDI therapy to CSII therapy than we expect and may result in negative price pressure. In addition to the established insulin pump competitors a number of companies (including current competitors) are working to develop and market new insulin “patch” pumps or “multi channel” pump devices (insulin and glucagon). These companies are at various stages of development. Our current competitors or other companies may at any time develop additional products for the treatment of diabetes. For example, there is an inhaled insulin product that was recently introduced by Pfizer Inc., and other diabetes-focused pharmaceutical companies, including Abbott Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company, MannKind Corporation, Nektar Therapeutics and Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company Limited, are developing similar products. All of these competitors are large, well-capitalized companies with significantly greater product development resources than us. If an existing or future competitor develops a product that competes with or is superior to the OmniPod System, our revenues may decline. In addition, some of our competitors may compete by changing their pricing model or by lowering the price of their insulin delivery systems or ancillary supplies. If these competitors’ products were to gain acceptance by healthcare professionals, people with insulin-dependent diabetes or third-party payors, a downward pressure on prices could result. If prices were to fall, we may not improve our gross margins or sales growth sufficiently to achieve profitability. Technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment or prevention could render the OmniPod System obsolete. The diabetes treatment market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. The OmniPod System is based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies, medical researchers and existing pharmaceutical companies are pursuing new delivery devices, delivery technologies, sensing technologies, procedures, drugs and other therapeutics for the monitoring, treatment and/or prevention of insulin-dependent diabetes. For example, FDA approval of a commercially viable “closed-loop” system that combines continuous “real-time” glucose sensing or monitoring and automatic continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion in a manner that delivers appropriate amounts of insulin on a timely basis without patient direction could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and future profitability. We have an agreement with Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc., a global healthcare company that develops continuous glucose monitoring technology, to develop a product that will integrate the receiver portion of Abbott’s continuous glucose monitor, the FreeStyle Navigator, with the OmniPod System PDM. The FreeStyle Navigator is currently pending FDA approval and is not available on the market. We have a similar agreement with DexCom, Inc., a leading provider of continuous glucose monitoring systems for people with diabetes, to develop a product that will integrate the receiver portion of DexCom’s continuous glucose monitor, currently marketed as the Seven System, with the OmniPod System PDM. Medtronic, Inc. has developed an FDA-approved product combining continuous glucose sensing and CSII therapy and if we fail to do so, we may be at a significant competitive disadvantage, which could negatively impact our business. In addition, the National Institutes of Health and other supporters of diabetes research are continually seeking ways to prevent, cure or improve the treatment of diabetes. Any technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment or prevention could render the OmniPod System obsolete, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our existing license agreement with Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc. is terminated or we fail to enter into new license agreements allowing us to incorporate a blood glucose meter into the OmniPod System, our business may be materially adversely impacted. Our rights to incorporate the FreeStyle blood glucose meter into the OmniPod System are governed by a development and license agreement with Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc., as the successor to TheraSense, Inc. This agreement provides us with a non-exclusive, fully paid, non-transferable and non-sublicensable license in the United States under patents and other relevant technical information relating to the FreeStyle blood glucose meter during the term of the agreement. On March 3, 2008 we entered into a first amendment of the agreement pursuant to which the term of the original agreement was extended until February 2013, with 17 Table of Contents automatic renewals for subsequent one-year periods thereafter, and the license granted therein was extended to cover Israel as well as the United States. The agreement may be terminated by Abbott if it discontinues its FreeStyle blood glucose meter or test strips or by either party if the other party is acquired by a competitor of the first party or materially breaches its obligations under the agreement. Termination of this agreement could require us to either remove the blood glucose meter from PDMs to be sold in the future, which would impair the functionality of the OmniPod System, or attempt to incorporate an alternative blood glucose meter into the PDM, which would require us to acquire rights to or develop an alternative blood glucose meter, incorporate it into the OmniPod System and obtain regulatory approval for the new OmniPod System. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Abbott and a number of other major blood glucose monitor manufacturers were sued for patent infringement by Roche Diagnostics pursuant to a complaint dated November 21, 2007. The complaint alleges that the blood glucose monitors currently manufactured by Abbott and others infringe one or more recently-issued Roche patents. Abbott has indemnified us against losses arising from claims of infringement like these and, if our use of the Freestyle blood glucose meter were to be enjoined and Abbott was unable to obtain a license as required by our contract, then we would need to obtain rights to an alternative non-infringing blood glucose meter, incorporate it into the OmniPod System and obtain regulatory approval for the new OmniPod System. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may need additional licenses to intellectual property owned by third parties in order to commercialize new products. If we cannot obtain these additional licenses, we may not be able to develop or commercialize these future products. Our rights to use technologies licensed to us by third parties are not entirely within our control, and we may not be able to continue selling the OmniPod System or sell future products without these technologies. The patent rights on which we rely to protect the intellectual property underlying the OmniPod System may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and would harm our continued ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part on our continued ability to develop or acquire commercially-valuable patent rights and to protect these rights adequately. Our patent position is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other related rights include the following: • the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; • the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; • we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us; and • other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. We also may not be able to protect our patent rights effectively in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent protection. Our patent rights underlying the OmniPod System may not be adequate, and our competitors or customers may design around our proprietary technologies or independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to ours without infringing on any of our patent rights. In addition, the patents licensed or issued to us may not provide a competitive advantage. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Other rights and measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. While we currently require employees, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure or assignment of invention agreements, or a combination thereof where appropriate, any of the following could still occur: • the agreements may be breached; • we may have inadequate remedies for any breach; • trade secrets and other proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or • others may independently develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would harm our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patents to protect a portion of our intellectual property and our competitive position. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in the medical device industry are generally uncertain. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Litigation may be necessary to: • assert claims of infringement; • enforce our patents; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims that our current or future products infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell those products and cause us to incur additional costs. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the medical device industry. We expect that we could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as our revenues increase, the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlaps. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our current or future products or technologies may infringe. For example, we are aware of certain patents and patent applications owned by our competitors that cover different aspects of insulin infusion and the related devices. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. In particular, Medtronic, Inc., in a letter dated March 13, 2007, invited us to discuss our “taking a license to certain Medtronic patents.” The patents referenced by this letter relate to technology that is material to our business. We have not had any substantive 19 Table of Contents discussions with Medtronic concerning this matter since our receipt of this letter. While we believe that the OmniPod System does not infringe these patents, we would consider resolving the matter on reasonable terms. If we are unable to reach agreement with Medtronic, Inc. on this matter, they may sue us for infringement. We believe we would have meritorious defenses to any such suit. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, would likely result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause negative publicity, adversely impact prospective customers, cause product shipment delays, prohibit us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our current or future products, require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenues may decrease substantially and we could be exposed to significant liability. A court could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us or our customers from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our current or future products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties can have a similar negative impact on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which could restrict the sales and marketing of the OmniPod System and could cause us to incur significant costs. We sell medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. These regulations relate to manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. We may be required to obtain a new 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval for significant post-market modifications to the OmniPod System. Each of these processes can be expensive and lengthy, and entail significant user fees, unless exempt. The FDA’s process for obtaining 510(k) clearance usually takes three to twelve months, but it can last longer. The process for obtaining pre- market approval is much more costly and uncertain and it generally takes from one to three years, or longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. Medical devices may be marketed only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the current clinical applications for which we market our OmniPod System, which includes the use of U-100, which is a common form of insulin. However, our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Further, we may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, the OmniPod System in a timely fashion or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices. We also are subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, which include quality system regulations related to the manufacturing of our devices, labeling regulations and medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our devices cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. In addition, these regulatory requirements may change in the future in a way that adversely affects us. If we fail to comply with present or future regulatory requirements that are applicable to us, we may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • customer notification, or orders for repair, replacement or refunds • voluntary or mandatory recall or seizure of our current or future products; • administrative detention by the FDA of medical devices believed to be adulterated or misbranded; 20 Table of Contents • imposing operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production; • refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses or modifications to the OmniPod System; • rescinding 510(k) clearance or suspending or withdrawing pre-market approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we, our contract manufacturers or our component suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, the manufacturing and distribution of our devices could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer. We, our contract manufacturers and our component suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, which is a complex regulatory framework that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces its quality system regulations through periodic unannounced inspections. We cannot assure you that our facilities or our contract manufacturers’ or component suppliers’ facilities would pass any future quality system inspection. If our or any of our contract manufacturers’ or component suppliers’ facilities fails a quality system inspection, the manufacturing or distribution of our devices could be interrupted and our operations disrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse quality system inspection could force a suspension or shutdown of our packaging and labeling operations or the manufacturing operations of our contract manufacturers, or a recall of our devices. If any of these events occurs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity of OmniPods they require on a timely basis, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers, any or all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current or future products are subject to recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our current or future products if we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with relevant regulations pertaining to manufacturing practices, labeling, advertising or promotional activities, or if new information is obtained concerning the safety or efficacy of these products. A government-mandated recall could occur if the FDA finds that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious, adverse health consequences or death. A voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving the OmniPod System would be particularly harmful to our business, financial condition and results of operations because it is currently our only product. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. A federal law commonly known as the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, prohibit payments that are intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. These laws constrain our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other 21 Table of Contents federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Because we may provide some coding and billing information to purchasers of the OmniPod System, and because we cannot assure that the government will regard any billing errors that may be made as inadvertent, these laws are potentially applicable to us. In addition, these laws are potentially applicable to us because we provide reimbursement to healthcare professionals for training patients on the use of the OmniPod System. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. Even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. If we are found to be in violation of the privacy rules under HIPAA, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities, harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability suits, whether or not meritorious, could be brought against us due to an alleged defective product or for the misuse of our devices. These suits could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages, and an increase in our insurance rates. If our current or future products are defectively designed or manufactured, contain defective components or are misused, or if someone claims any of the foregoing, whether or not meritorious, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation. Misusing our devices or failing to adhere to the operating guidelines of the OmniPod System could cause significant harm to patients, including death. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. While we believe that we are reasonably insured against these risks, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all future claims. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and could reduce revenues. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves harming our financial condition and adversely affecting our results of operations. Our ability to grow our revenues depends in part on our retaining a high percentage of our customer base. A key to driving our revenue growth is the retention of a high percentage of our customers. We have developed retention programs aimed at both the healthcare professionals and the patients, which include appeals assistance, patient training, 24/7 customer support and an automatic re-order program for patients. Since we began shipping the OmniPod System in October 2005, we have had a satisfactory customer retention rate; however, we cannot assure you that we will maintain this retention rate in the future. The failure to retain a high percentage of our customers would negatively impact our revenue growth and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We intend to sponsor market studies seeking to demonstrate certain aspects of the efficacy of the OmniPod System, which may fail to produce favorable results. To help improve, market and sell the OmniPod System, we intend to sponsor market studies to assess various aspects of its functionality and its relative efficacy. The data obtained from the studies may be unfavorable to the OmniPod System or may be inadequate to support satisfactory conclusions. In addition, in the future we may sponsor clinical trials to assess certain aspects of the efficacy of the OmniPod System. If future clinical trials fail to support the efficacy of our current or future products, our sales may be adversely affected and we may lose an opportunity to secure clinical preference from prescribing clinicians, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If future clinical studies or other articles are published, or diabetes associations or other organizations announce positions that are unfavorable to the OmniPod System, our sales efforts and revenues may be negatively affected. Future clinical studies or other articles regarding our existing products or any competing products may be published that either support a claim, or are perceived to support a claim, that a competitor’s product is clinically more effective or easier to use than the OmniPod System or that the OmniPod System is not as effective or easy to use as we claim. Additionally, diabetes associations or other organizations that may be viewed as authoritative could endorse products or methods that compete with the OmniPod System or otherwise announce positions that are unfavorable to the OmniPod System. Any of these events may negatively affect our sales efforts and result in decreased revenues. If we expand, or attempt to expand, into foreign markets, we will be affected by new business risks that may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we expand, or attempt to expand, into foreign markets, we will be subject to new business risks, including: • failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all to market the OmniPod System or other future products; • availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign health care payment systems; • adapting to the differing laws and regulations, business and clinical practices, and patient preferences in foreign countries; • difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we establish with foreign distributors or sales or marketing agents; • limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • costs of enforcing contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions; • recessions in economies outside of the United States; • political instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. If we are successful in introducing our current or future products into foreign markets, we will be affected by these additional business risks, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, expansion into foreign markets imposes additional burdens on our executive and administrative personnel, research and sales departments and general managerial resources. Our efforts to introduce our current or future products into foreign markets may not be successful, in which case we may 23 Table of Contents have expended significant resources without realizing the expected benefit. Ultimately, the investment required for expansion into foreign markets could exceed the results of operations generated from this expansion. Substantially all of our operations are currently conducted at a single location and any disruption at our facility could increase our expenses. Substantially all of our operations are currently conducted at a single location in Bedford, Massachusetts. We take precautions to safeguard our facility, including insurance, health and safety protocols and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural or other disaster, such as a fire or flood, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. With or without insurance, damage to our manufacturing facility or our other property, or to any of our suppliers, due to fire, flood or other natural disaster or casualty event may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain our personnel. We have benefited substantially from the leadership and performance of our senior management, especially Duane DeSisto, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Carsten Boess, our Chief Financial Officer. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, including clinicians, engineers and other highly skilled personnel. Competition for senior management personnel, as well as clinicians and engineers, is intense and there can be no assurances that we will be able to retain our personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. DeSisto, Mr. Boess, certain other members of our senior management, clinicians or engineers could prevent or delay the implementation and completion of our objectives, or divert management’s attention to seeking a qualified replacement. Additionally, the sale and after-sale support of the OmniPod System is logistically complex, requiring us to maintain an extensive infrastructure of field sales personnel, diabetes educators, customer support, insurance specialists, and billing and collections personnel. We face considerable challenges in recruiting, training, managing, motivating and retaining these teams, including managing geographically dispersed efforts. If we fail to maintain and grow an adequate pool of trained and motivated personnel, our reputation could suffer and our financial position could be adversely affected. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business resources may become strained, we may not be able to deliver the OmniPod System in a timely manner and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We have progressively expanded our marketing efforts from an initial focus in the Eastern United States, as well as with some key diabetes practitioners, academic centers and clinics elsewhere in the United States, then to the Midwestern and most recently to parts of the Western region. As we expand our sales into the balance of the United States and internationally, we will need to obtain coverage contracts with additional third-party payors in those areas. Failure to obtain such contracts would limit our ability to successfully penetrate those areas. In addition, the geographic expansion of our business will require additional manufacturing capacity to supply those markets as well as additional sales and marketing resources. We expect to significantly increase our manufacturing capacity, our personnel and the scope of our sales and marketing efforts on a phased basis into the rest of the United States and internationally. This growth, as well as any other growth that we may experience in the future, will provide challenges to our organization and may strain our management and operations. In order to manage future growth, we will be required to improve existing, and implement new, management systems, sales and marketing efforts and distribution channels. We will need to oversee the construction and operation of a manufacturing line by Flextronics in China and manage our relation with Flextronics going forward. We may also need to partner with additional third-party suppliers to manufacture certain components of the OmniPod System and complete the planned automation of our existing line as well as subsequent lines in the future. A transition to new suppliers may result in 24 Table of Contents additional costs or delays. We may misjudge the amount of time or resources that will be required to effectively manage any anticipated or unanticipated growth in our business or we may not be able to manufacture sufficient inventory or attract, hire and retain sufficient personnel to meet our needs. If we cannot scale our business appropriately, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated and unanticipated growth, our business resources may become strained, we may not be able to deliver the OmniPod System in a timely manner and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents together with our short-term investments and the cash to be generated from expected product sales, will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we may seek additional funds from public and private stock offerings, borrowings under credit lines or other sources. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • revenues generated by sales of the OmniPod System and any other future products that we may develop; • costs associated with adding further manufacturing capacity; • costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts; • expenses we incur in manufacturing and selling the OmniPod System; • costs of developing new products or technologies and enhancements to the OmniPod System; • the cost of obtaining and maintaining FDA approval or clearance of our current or future products; • costs associated with any expansion; • costs associated with capital expenditures; • costs associated with litigation; and • the number and timing of any acquisitions or other strategic transactions. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and these funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to enhance the OmniPod System or develop new products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. If any of these events occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. The fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations have resulted, and will continue to result, from numerous factors, including: • delays in shipping due to capacity constraints; • practices of health insurance companies and other third-party payors with respect to reimbursement for our current or future products; • market acceptance of the OmniPod System; • our ability to manufacture the OmniPod efficiently; 25 Table of Contents • timing of regulatory approvals and clearances; • new product introductions; • competition; and • timing of research and development expenditures. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. In particular, if our quarterly results of operations fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. If we choose to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves, these acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business and could result in the use of significant amounts of equity, cash or a combination of both. From time to time we may seek to acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies, instead of developing them ourselves. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: • the inability to complete the acquisition or investment; • disruption of our ongoing businesses and diversion of management attention; • difficulties in integrating the acquired entities, products or technologies; • risks associated with acquiring intellectual property; • difficulties in operating the acquired business profitably; • the inability to achieve anticipated synergies, cost savings or growth; • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business; • difficulties in transitioning and maintaining key customer, distributor and supplier relationships; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • unanticipated costs. In addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in one or more of the following: • dilutive issuances of equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; • the use of significant amounts of cash; • the incurrence of debt; • the assumption of significant liabilities; • increased operating costs or reduced earnings; • financing obtained on unfavorable terms; • large one-time expenses; and • the creation of certain intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which in future periods may result in significant charges to earnings. Any of these factors could materially harm our stock price, business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our credit and security agreement contains restrictions and covenants that may limit our operating flexibility and which, if violated, could result in the acceleration of the amounts due under this agreement. On December 27, 2006, we entered into a credit and security agreement with a group of lenders led by Merrill Lynch Capital pursuant to which we borrowed $30.0 million in a term loan. This term loan is secured by all of our assets other than our intellectual property. The credit and security agreement imposes certain limitations on us, including limitations on our ability to do the following, subject to certain exceptions: • transfer all or any part of our businesses or properties, other than transfers done in the ordinary course of business; • engage in any business other than the business of designing, manufacturing, distributing and selling drug delivery devices and providing associated services or a reasonably related business; • merge or consolidate with or into any other business organization; • suffer or permit a change of control; • incur additional indebtedness; • incur liens with respect to any of our properties; • pay dividends or make any other distribution or payment on account of or in redemption, retirement or purchase of any capital stock; • directly or indirectly acquire or own, or make any investment in, any entity; • directly or indirectly enter into or permit to exist any transaction with any of our affiliates except transactions that are on terms that are no less favorable to us than would be obtained in an arm’s length transaction with a non-affiliate; • acquire any assets other than in the ordinary course of business; • incur any liability for rental payments except in the ordinary course of business; or • enter into any sale and leaseback transaction. Additionally, under the agreement, we must complete construction of a second manufacturing line for the OmniPods by March 31, 2009, which deadline may be extended to June 30, 2009 in specified circumstances. Complying with these restrictions and covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to similar restrictions and covenants. Additionally, if we violate any of these restrictions or covenants, our lenders under this agreement may accelerate all of our outstanding indebtedness and other amounts due under the credit and security agreement and, if we do not pay these amounts, proceed against the collateral securing these obligations. We will incur increased costs as a result of our compliance with laws and regulations affecting public companies. The laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, will result in increased costs to us as a publicly-traded company. As a public company, we are required to comply with many of these rules and regulations, and will be required to comply with additional rules and regulations in the future. For example, we are evaluating our internal controls systems in order to allow us to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. In addition, these efforts will divert management’s time and attention away from our business in order to 27 Table of Contents ensure compliance with these regulatory requirements. This diversion of management’s time and attention may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and our stock price and our business may be adversely impacted. As a public company, after an initial transition period, we will be required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and our management will be required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. Additionally, we will be required to disclose in our annual reports on Form 10-K our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a registered public accounting firm’s attestation report on this assessment. If we are not successful in establishing effective internal control over financial reporting, there could be inaccuracies or omissions in the consolidated financial information we are required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additionally, even if there are no inaccuracies or omissions, we will be required to publicly disclose the conclusion of our management that our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. These events could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, adversely impact our stock price, result in increased costs to remediate any deficiencies, attract regulatory scrutiny or lawsuits that could be costly to resolve and distract management’s attention, limit our ability to access the capital markets or cause our stock to be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market or any other securities exchange on which it is then listed. The price of our common stock may be volatile. There has been a public market for our common stock only since our initial public offering in May 2007. The market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including: • failure to maintain and increase production capacity and reduce per unit production costs; • changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries; • volume and timing of orders for the OmniPod System; • developments in administrative proceedings or litigation related to intellectual property rights; • issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • the announcement of technological or medical innovations in the treatment or diagnosis of diabetes; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals or applications; • developments in our industry; • publication of clinical studies relating to the OmniPod System or a competitor’s product; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Future sales of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price. We have been a public company only since May 2007. For the three month period ended December 31, 2007, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market has been fewer than 188,000 shares. If our existing stockholders or their distributees sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception 28 Table of Contents in the public market that our existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the trading price of our common stock. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • provide for a classified board of directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; • prohibit our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings or taking action by written consent; • provide for the removal of a director only with cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% or more of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of our directors; and • require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 