ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K and the other reports that we file with the SEC, in evaluating us and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Commercialization and Product Acquisitions We use third parties to manufacture all of our products and product candidates. This may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our products or product candidates at an acceptable cost, which could delay, impair or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates or our ability to meet commercial demands for our products. We have no manufacturing facilities and rely on third parties to purchase raw materials for, manufacture, package and supply all of our products. Some of the agreements we have entered into are exclusive agreements in which the manufacturer is a single-source supplier, preventing us from using alternative sources. Similarly, many of our agreements may require us to make volume commitments or agree to long-term pricing arrangements that may affect our margins or constrain our ability to position our products optimally in the market. If we choose to cancel or are unable to meet our volume commitments, we may be subject to penalties or increased costs to manufacture our products. For a description of the manufacturing and packaging agreements related to our more important products, please see “Item 1. Business — Manufacturing.” If any of the third-party manufacturers with whom we contract fails to perform its obligations, we may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including the following: • We may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products; • We may be required to cease distribution or issue recalls; • We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of product candidates that are under development; and • We may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for product candidates. We may not be able to enter into alternative supply arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. If we were required to change manufacturers, we would be required to obtain FDA approval of an sNDA covering the new manufacturing site. In addition, we would be required to conduct additional clinical bioequivalence trials to demonstrate that the products manufactured by the new manufacturer are equivalent to the products manufactured by the current manufacturer, which could take 12 to 18 months or possibly longer. 21 Table of Contents The technical transfer of manufacturing capabilities can be difficult. Any delays associated with the approval of a new manufacturer could adversely affect the production schedule or increase our production costs and could ultimately lead to a shortage of supply in the market. We also rely on third-party manufacturers that, in some instances, have encountered difficulties obtaining raw materials needed to manufacture our product candidates as a result of DEA regulations. Although these difficulties have not had a material adverse impact on us, such problems could have a material adverse impact on us in the future. In addition, supply interruptions or delays could occur that require us or our manufacturers to obtain substitute materials or products, which would require additional regulatory approvals. Changes in our raw material suppliers could result in delays in production, higher raw material costs and loss of sales and customers because regulatory authorities must generally approve raw material sources for pharmaceutical products. Any significant supply interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we import the API, tablet cores and/or finished product for all of our products from third parties that manufacture such items outside the United States, and we expect to do so in the future. This may give rise to difficulties in obtaining API, tablet cores or finished product in a timely manner as a result of, among other things, regulatory agency import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. For example, in January 2009, the FDA released draft guidance on Good Importer Practices, which, if adopted, will impose additional requirements on us with respect to oversight of our third-party manufacturers outside the United States. The FDA has stated that it will inspect 100% of API, tablet cores and finished product that is imported into the United States. If the FDA requires additional documentation from third-party manufacturers relating to the safety or intended use of the API or finished product, the importation of the API or finished product could be delayed. While in transit from outside the United States or while stored with our third-party logistics provider, Cardinal SPS, our API, tablet cores or finished product could be lost or suffer damage, which would render such items unusable. We have attempted to take appropriate risk mitigation steps and to obtain transit or casualty insurance. However, depending upon when the loss or damage occurs, we may have limited recourse for recovery against our manufacturers or insurers. As a result, our financial performance could be impacted by any such loss or damage. The commercial success of our currently marketed products and any additional products that we successfully develop or bring to market depends on the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers and others in the medical community. Any products that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, health care providers, health care payers and others in the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of our products, including our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the prevalence and severity of the products’ side effects; • the efficacy and potential advantages of the products over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer the products for sale at competitive prices, including in relation to any generic or re-imported products or competing treatments; • the relative convenience and ease of administration of the products; • the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; • the perception by physicians and other members of the health care community of the safety and efficacy of the products and competing products; • the willingness of the hospitals and other health care providers to purchase, stock and utilize the products; • the availability and level of third-party reimbursement for sales of the products; • the continued availability of adequate supplies of the products to meet demand; 22 Table of Contents • the strength of marketing and distribution support; • any unfavorable publicity concerning us, our products or the markets for these products, such as information concerning product contamination or other safety issues in the markets for our products, whether or not directly involving our products; • changes in government reimbursement of hospitals or health care providers that have the effect of prohibiting the purchase of or adversely affecting the market position of our products relative to competing products used to treat the same indications; and • regulatory developments related to our marketing and promotional practices or the manufacture or continued use of our products. If our products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenue and may not be able to return to profitability. Our strategy of obtaining, through product acquisitions and in-licenses, rights to products and product candidates for our development pipeline and to proprietary drug delivery and formulation technologies for our life cycle management of current products may not be successful. Because we do not have discovery and research capabilities, the growth of our business will depend in significant part on our ability to acquire or in-license additional products, product candidates or proprietary drug delivery and formulation technologies that we believe have significant commercial potential and are consistent with our commercial objectives. However, we may be unable to license or acquire suitable products, product candidates or technologies from third parties for a number of reasons. The licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products, product candidates and related technologies is a competitive area, and a number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products, product candidates and drug delivery and formulation technologies, which may mean fewer suitable acquisition opportunities for us, as well as higher acquisition prices. Many of our competitors have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. Other factors that may prevent us from licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable products, product candidates or technologies include: • We may be unable to license or acquire the relevant products, product candidates or technologies on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on investment; • Companies that perceive us as a competitor may be unwilling to license or sell their product rights or technologies to us; • We may be unable to identify suitable products, product candidates or technologies within our areas of expertise; and • We may have inadequate cash resources or may be unable to obtain financing to acquire rights to suitable products, product candidates or technologies from third parties. If we are not successful in identifying and acquiring rights to products, or if we are not successful in developing product candidates, we may not be able to increase our revenues in future periods, which could result in significant harm to our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We face competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. The development and commercialization of drugs is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to our currently marketed products, our current product candidates and any products that we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. Potential competitors also include academic 23 Table of Contents institutions, government agencies and other private and public research organizations that seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for development, manufacturing and commercialization. We face significant competition for our currently marketed products. Some or all of our product candidates, if approved, may face competition from other branded and generic drugs or biosimilars approved for the same therapeutic indications, approved drugs used off label for such indications and novel drugs in clinical development. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, safer, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our patents will not protect our products if competitors devise ways of making products that compete with our products without legally infringing our patents. The FDCA and FDA regulations and policies provide certain exclusivity incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of 505(b)(2) NDAs or ANDAs for competitive products. These same types of exclusivity incentives encourage manufacturers to submit NDAs that rely, in part, on literature and clinical data not prepared for or by such manufacturers. Manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their product has the same API, dosage form, strength, route of administration and conditions of use or labeling as our product and that the generic product is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as our product, a comparison known as bioequivalence. Such products would be significantly less costly than our products to bring to market and could lead to the existence of multiple lower-priced competitive products, which would substantially limit our ability to obtain a return on the investments we have made in those products. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their product candidates more rapidly than we may obtain approval for our product candidates. The FDCA provides a five-year period of exclusivity for a drug approved under the first NDA covering an API, and the drug approval for any of our product candidates may be blocked by such a period of marketing exclusivity. Similarly, the FDCA provides a three-year period of exclusivity for a drug approved under its first NDA (where there is some significant change to the product, such as a new indication or formulation of a drug) that includes a previously approved API and for which new studies essential to the approval of the application have been performed. These provisions may delay approval of our product candidates. Even if we are not excluded from obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates, it may adversely affect the revenue potential of those product candidates if our competitors succeed in commercializing similar products more rapidly or effectively than we are able to. For instance, in October 2010, one of our competitors, Par Pharmaceuticals, with its licensing partner, Tris Pharma, Inc., launched an FDA-approved generic hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex extended-release oral suspension product, which, like HP/CP ER Suspension, is a generic version of UCB’s, Tussionex. In addition, UCB launched its own generic version of Tussionex, through its generic subsidiary, Kremers Urban Pharmaceuticals Inc., which will make us the third entrant into the Tussionex generic market. The presence of competing products in the market may adversely affect both the price we can charge for our product and the portion of the market for that product that may be available to us, because product sales of pharmaceutical and/or therapeutic equivalents often follow a particular pattern over time based on regulatory and competitive factors. The first company to introduce an equivalent of a branded product is often able to capture a substantial share of the market. However, as other companies introduce competing equivalent products, the first entrant’s market share, and the price of its equivalent product, will typically decline. The extent of the decline generally depends on several factors, including the number of competitors, the price of the branded product and the pricing strategy of the new competitors. For example, in the generic drug industry, when a company is the first to introduce a generic drug, the pricing of the generic drug is typically set based on a discount from the published price of the equivalent branded product. Other generic manufacturers or a manufacturer contracted to market an authorized generic to the brand may enter the market and, as a result, the price of the drug may decline significantly. In such event, we may in our discretion provide our customers a credit with respect to the customers’ remaining inventory for the difference between our new price and the price at which we originally sold the product to our customers. There are circumstances under which we may, as a matter of business strategy, not provide price adjustments to certain 24 Table of Contents customers and, consequently, we may lose future sales to competitors. Our inability to introduce generic equivalents to our branded products or our withdrawal of existing products from the market due to increased competition would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The principal competitors to our products and potential competitors to our product candidates are more fully described under the caption “Competition” in Item 1 above. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and superior expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products and thus may be better equipped than us to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites, registering patients for clinical trials and acquiring technologies. Many of our competitors have collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. In many cases, products that compete with our currently marketed products and product candidates have already received regulatory approval or are in late-stage development, have well known brand names, are distributed by large pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources and have achieved widespread acceptance among physicians and patients. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. We will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our products, the timing, scope and market exclusivity of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products, or products with more effective patent protection, than our products. Accordingly, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we are able to, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our product candidates will achieve initial market acceptance and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our product candidates. Even if our product candidates achieve initial market acceptance, competitive products may render our products noncompetitive. If our product candidates are rendered noncompetitive, we may not be able to recover the expenses of developing and commercializing those product candidates. If we are unable to identify and acquire products and/or companies, and if we cannot integrate them efficiently, our business and ability to realize the value of completed acquisitions, or ability to develop our product candidates and expand our product pipeline may be harmed. Our plan to grow our existing product portfolio is based upon our ability to acquire or in-license products and to acquire companies that fit with our strategic focus. These acquisitions and licenses involve risks. For example: • We may not be able to identify suitable companies to acquire or to acquire such companies on favorable terms. We compete with others in the pharmaceutical industry to acquire companies. We believe that this competition may increase and could result in decreased availability or increased prices for suitable acquisition candidates. • During the acquisition process, we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of companies or products that we acquire. • We may overuse our cash resources. • We may experience higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses. • We may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions. • We may fail to integrate acquired companies or products into our business successfully. • Acquired businesses or products may not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain the financial improvements and results we anticipate. In addition, the development and integration of new companies or products could disrupt our business and occupy our management’s time and attention. 25 Table of Contents • We face the risk that our existing financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources will need to grow to support future growth. • We may be unable to preserve key suppliers or distributors of any acquired products. • We may issue equity securities to acquire companies or products, which may result in dilution. • Any acquisition could substantially increase our operating expenses, including amortization of product rights and other definite-lived intangible assets. For example, in December 2011, we acquired Cardiokine primarily to obtain the pending NDA for LIXAR. We paid $1.0 million shortly after closing and assumed approximately $2.0 million of Cardiokine’s current liabilities. During 2012, we invested approximately $2.9 million into the LIXAR development program. In October 2012, we received a CRL from the FDA following its review of the NDA for LIXAR in which they requested that we complete additional clinical studies to further evaluate the efficacy and safety of lixivaptan in both heart failure patients and SIADH patients. We are requesting an End-of-Review meeting with the FDA’s Division of Cardiovascular and Renal Drug Products to better understand the contents of the CRL and the nature and scope of the additional clinical trials requested by the agency. Following that meeting, we will determine appropriate next steps for LIXAR, which may result in abandonment of the development program if we determine the anticipated benefits of an approved product are outweighed by the costs and risks of conducting the additional clinical trials requested by the FDA. If we fail to address adequately the financial, operational or legal risks of our acquisitions or licensing arrangements, or if we are unable to integrate our acquisitions successfully, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the sale of our currently marketed products, previously marketed products that have been withdrawn or discontinued, any other products that we successfully develop and the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials. If we cannot successfully defend against claims that our products or product candidates caused injuries, we could incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products or any products that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • the withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • the recall and/or withdrawal of a product from the market; • costs to defend the related litigation; • substantial monetary damages awards to clinical trial participants or plaintiffs, whether through settlement or trial; • diversion of management time and attention; • loss of revenue; and • inability to commercialize the products that we may develop. As discussed in the risk factors above, there are concerns regarding the safety of the products containing the API zileuton. In addition, in November 2010, the FDA requested that all products containing the API propoxyphene be voluntarily withdrawn from the market due to safety concerns. All of our products containing propoxyphene have been removed from the market. We are aware of various pending product liability claims which have been asserted in lawsuits against numerous developers, manufacturers and distributors of propoxyphene products. A large number of those lawsuits have been consolidated into multidistrict litigation, or MDL, proceedings in the United States District Court, Eastern District of Kentucky (Northern Division), and a large number have been filed in California state courts. We expect that the large majority of future lawsuits that 26 Table of Contents are filed will be consolidated in a complex litigation department in California state court or continue to be consolidated in the MDL proceedings. We have been named in a significant number of those lawsuits, and, to date, we have been served with legal process in five such suits. For a more complete discussion regarding these lawsuits, please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” in this annual report on Form 10-K. We had a less than 1% share of the market for propoxyphene products, and we believe that the probability that a party alleging injury could definitively link that injury to our products is low based on current facts known to us. In light of recent case law, we believe that plaintiffs will have difficulty explaining why their claims are not preempted by federal regulatory laws. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are likely to face significant liability in connection with the claims asserted against developers, manufacturers and distributors of propoxyphene products based on current facts known to us at this stage of this litigation. Our contracts with wholesalers and other customers require us to carry product liability insurance. We have primary and excess product liability insurance coverage to meet these obligations. Our primary coverage offers a $10 million per claim and annual aggregate limit. The excess policy offers an additional $10 million per claim and annual aggregate limit. The annual cost of our product liability insurance was approximately $384,000 for the policy year beginning September 13, 2012. In addition, our product liability insurance coverage for such policy year specifically excludes liability related to propoxyphene products. In the event that we are found liable for injuries caused by our products, if defenses are unsuccessful, or if adverse facts are learned, we could face significant liability that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and the amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. The concentration of our product sales to only a few wholesale distributors increases the risk that we will not be able to effectively distribute our products if we need to replace any of these customers, which would cause our sales to decline. The majority of our sales are to a small number of pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, which in turn sell our products primarily to retail and hospital pharmacies, which ultimately dispense our products to the end consumers. Consolidation within the wholesale drug distribution industry has occurred and may continue to occur. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. Sales to our three primary wholesale distributors, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health and McKesson Corporation, collectively accounted for approximately 93% of our gross product sales during 2012. The loss of any of these wholesale distributors or a material reduction in their purchases could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to enter into agreements with replacement wholesale distributors on commercially reasonable terms. Our business could suffer as a result of a failure to manage and maintain our distribution network. We do not have our own warehouse or distribution capabilities, we lack the resources and experience to establish any of these functions, and we do not intend to establish these functions in the foreseeable future. We rely on third parties to distribute our products to pharmacies. We have contracted with Cardinal SPS, a third-party logistics company, for the distribution of our products to wholesalers, retail drug stores, mass merchandisers and grocery stores in the United States. We also depend on the distribution abilities of our wholesale customers to ensure that products are effectively distributed throughout the supply chain. If there are any interruptions in our customers’ ability to distribute products through their distribution centers, our products may not be effectively distributed, which could cause confusion and frustration among pharmacists and lead to product substitution. Our distribution network requires significant coordination with our supply chain, sales and marketing and finance organizations. If we are unable to effectively manage and maintain our distribution network, sales of our products could be severely compromised and our business could be harmed. In addition, failure to maintain our third-party contracts or a third party’s inability or failure to adequately perform as agreed under its contract with us could negatively impact us. 27 Table of Contents If any of the third parties that we rely upon for assistance in researching, developing, manufacturing, promoting and distributing our products and product candidates experience financial distress and are unable to provide this assistance, our operating performance would be adversely affected. Economic unpredictability could adversely affect the third parties upon whom we rely for researching, developing, manufacturing, promoting and distributing our products and product candidates. We believe that some of the third parties upon which we rely depend on financing from banks, financial institutions and other third-party financing sources in order to finance their operations. The current economic environment may make it more difficult or impossible for these third parties to obtain additional financing or extend the terms of their current financing. Some of these third parties may be highly leveraged, and if they are unable to service their indebtedness, such failure could adversely affect their ability to maintain their operations and to meet their contractual obligations to us, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure to maintain optimal inventory levels could harm our reputation and subject us to financial losses. Because accurate product planning is necessary to ensure that we maintain optimal inventory levels, significant differences between our current estimates and judgments and future estimated demand for our products and the useful life of inventory may result in significant charges for excess inventory or purchase commitments in the future. If we are required to recognize charges for excess inventories, such charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Product acquisitions typically include the purchase of existing inventory. If the previous company has distributed product to the wholesalers and distributors that exceeds current demand, such inventory levels could affect our ability to sell product to the wholesalers. Until the inventory levels decline, revenues for the acquired product could be minimal. We are also subject to minimum purchase obligations under supply agreements. For example, our development and manufacturing agreement with Baxter Healthcare Corporation requires us to meet an annual purchase obligation in each calendar year with respect to purchases of bags that are used in the manufacture of CARDENE RTU. We were required to pay a penalty with respect to bags that we did not purchase during the year ended December 31, 2012. If we continue to be unable to meet our annual minimum purchase requirements, we will be required to pay penalties in the future in accordance with the agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows Our ability to maintain optimal inventory levels also depends on the performance of third-party contract manufacturers. In some instances, third-party manufacturers have encountered difficulties obtaining raw materials needed to manufacture our product candidates as a result of DEA regulations and because of the limited number of suppliers of certain APIs. Although these difficulties have not had a material adverse impact on us, such problems could have a material adverse impact on us in the future. If we are unable to manufacture and release inventory on a timely and consistent basis, if we fail to maintain an adequate level of product inventory, if inventory is destroyed or damaged or fails periodic quality testing or if our inventory reaches its expiration date, patients might not have access to our products, our reputation and our brands could be harmed and physicians may be less likely to prescribe our products in the future, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our third-party manufacturers and packagers do not obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances needed to supply us with our product candidates or products or the quotas are not sufficient, our product launches may be delayed or we may be unable to meet commercial demand for our products following launch. HP/CP ER Suspension contains hydrocodone, a controlled substance which is regulated by the DEA under the Controlled Substances Act. DEA quota requirements limit the amount of controlled substance drug products a manufacturer may manufacture, the amount of API it may use to manufacture those products and the amount of controlled substance drug products a packager may package. We rely on the third-party manufacturer and packager of this product candidate, Neos and Coating Place, respectively, to request and obtain from the DEA the 28 Table of Contents annual quota allocation needed to meet our production requirements for this suspension product, and we will continue to rely on Neos and Coating Place to obtain necessary quotas following launch. If Neos and Coating Place are unsuccessful in obtaining quotas, HP/CP ER Suspension could be at risk of a delayed launch or we may be unable to meet commercial demand following launch. If we or our contract manufacturers or packagers fail to comply with regulatory requirements for any controlled substance products and product candidates, the DEA may take regulatory actions detrimental to our business, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution, withdrawal of products from the market or other penalties. We, our contract manufacturers and packagers and our products and product candidates (in particular, HP/CP ER Suspension) are subject to the Controlled Substances Act and DEA regulations thereunder. Accordingly, we and our contract manufacturer and packager for HP/CP ER Suspension must adhere to a number of requirements with respect to this product, including registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements; labeling and packaging requirements; security controls; procurement and manufacturing quotas; and certain restrictions on prescription refills. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings. Failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements can result in enforcement action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Concerns regarding the safety profile of ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO may limit market acceptance of ZYFLO CR. Market perceptions about the safety of ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO may limit the market acceptance of ZYFLO CR. In the clinical trials that were reviewed by the FDA prior to its approval of ZYFLO, 3.2% of the approximately 5,000 patients who received ZYFLO experienced increased levels of a liver enzyme called alanine transaminase, or ALT, of over three times the levels normally seen in the bloodstream. In these trials, one patient developed symptomatic hepatitis with jaundice, which resolved upon discontinuation of therapy, and three patients developed mild elevations in bilirubin. In clinical trials for ZYFLO CR, 1.94% of the patients taking ZYFLO CR in a three-month efficacy trial and 2.6% of the patients taking ZYFLO CR in a six-month safety trial experienced ALT levels greater than or equal to three times the level normally seen in the bloodstream. Because ZYFLO CR can elevate liver enzyme levels, its product labeling, which was approved by the FDA in May 2007, contains the recommendation that periodic liver function tests be performed on patients taking ZYFLO CR. Some physicians and patients may perceive liver function tests as inconvenient or indicative of safety issues, which could make them reluctant to prescribe or accept ZYFLO CR, ZYFLO or any other zileuton product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize, which could limit their commercial acceptance. Safety concerns regarding ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO, actual or perceived, may adversely impact the market for ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Product Development and Regulatory Matters We may not be successful in obtaining necessary clinical results and regulatory approvals for our products and, if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements for our products or if we experience unanticipated problems with them, the FDA may take regulatory actions detrimental to our business, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution, withdrawal of products from the market or other penalties. We, our products, our contract manufacturers and our other partners are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA. These requirements include filing marketing authorization applications, submissions of safety and other post-marketing information; record-keeping and reporting; annual registration of manufacturing facilities and listing of products with the FDA; ongoing compliance with cGMP regulations; and requirements regarding advertising, promotion and the distribution of samples to physicians and related recordkeeping. For example, we 29 Table of Contents received an untitled letter from the FDA’s Office of Prescription Drug Promotion on October 31, 2012 relating to certain promotional material for our CUROSURF intratracheal suspension. The FDA asserted that a certain CUROSURF promotional item was false and misleading because it presented unsubstantiated superiority claims regarding the product. Although we did not admit and in fact denied some of FDA’s allegations, as part of our response and in connection with the close out of this matter, we ceased dissemination of the relevant promotional materials, disabled and revised the web page, retrieved and destroyed the relevant promotional materials and updated our procedures regarding promotional material. Going forward, if our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations and guidelines, we could be subject to additional regulatory actions by the FDA, including product seizure, injunctions and other penalties, and, if so, our business and reputation could be harmed. Under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, the FDA is also authorized, among other things, to require the submission of Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies with NDAs, or post-approval upon the discovery of new safety information, to monitor and address potential product safety issues. The FDAAA also grants the FDA the authority to mandate labeling changes in certain circumstances and establishes requirements for registering and disclosing the results of clinical trials. Our third-party manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities used to make our products and product candidates are also subject to comprehensive regulatory requirements. While we generally negotiate for the right under our long-term manufacturing contracts to periodically audit our third-party manufacturers’ performance, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with applicable regulations. Our current quality assurance program may not be reasonably designed to, or may not, discover all instances of non-compliance by our third-party manufacturers with these regulations. Our partners’ noncompliance could have significant negative consequences, such as product approval delays, manufacturing or processing difficulties, product shortages or FDA enforcement actions taken against us, our products, or both. For instance, in 2004, the FDA inspected the predecessor company to one of our current development partners and, as a result of alleged failure of the manufacturer to comply with cGMPs, the FDA issued a warning letter to the manufacturer. Subsequent action by the FDA related to the 2004 warning letter resulted in a permanent injunction, or consent decree, in 2007 against the manufacturer. The manufacturer is working closely with their FDA district office to satisfy the conditions of the injunction; however, the manufacturer remains under the auspices of the consent decree at this point in time. In addition, the FDA periodically inspects sponsors, marketers and third-party manufacturers for compliance with these requirements. If the FDA is not satisfied with the corrective actions taken in response to its inspections, a company could be subject to further FDA action, including sanctions, and may also be subject to sanctions as a result of discovery of previously unknown problems with its products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Possible sanctions include the following: • withdrawal of the products from the market; • restrictions on the marketing or distribution of such products; • restrictions on the manufacturers or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • recalls; • fines; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • product seizures; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. 30 Table of Contents If any of the actions are taken against our company, these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to develop safe and efficacious formulations of our product candidates, or our clinical trials for our product candidates are not successful, we may not be able to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our product candidates successfully. Although it is our strategy to focus our development efforts on late-stage product candidates, some of our product candidates may be in the preclinical stage of development and require clinical testing necessary to obtain the regulatory approvals or clearances required for commercial sale. Our ability to complete the development of such products is subject to all of the risks associated with the commercialization of new products regulated by the FDA. Such risks may include unanticipated technical problems, processing or manufacturing difficulties, and the possibility that we have allocated insufficient funds to complete such development. Depending on the nature of the product candidate, to demonstrate a product candidate’s safety and efficacy, we and our collaborators generally must either demonstrate bioequivalence with a drug already approved by the FDA or complete human clinical efficacy trials. We may not be able to obtain permission from the FDA, IRBs or other authorities to commence or complete necessary clinical trials and, even if we are allowed to conduct these clinical trials, we may be required to expend significant time and resources to obtain the required regulatory approvals to market these products. Moreover, if permitted, such clinical testing may not prove that our product candidates are safe and effective to the extent necessary to permit us to obtain marketing approvals or clearances from regulatory authorities. One or more of our product candidates may not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans, may cause harmful side effects or may have other characteristics that may delay or preclude submission and regulatory approval, or cause imposition of burdensome post-approval requirements or limit commercial use if approved. Furthermore, we, one of our collaborators, IRBs or regulatory agencies may order a clinical hold or suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if it is believed that the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons, such as non-compliance at a clinical site. Adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our product candidates could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, result in increased costs and significantly delay the submission for marketing approval or clearance for such product candidates with the FDA or other regulatory authorities or result in failure to obtain approval or approval for a narrower indication. If clinical trials fail, our product candidates would not receive regulatory approval or achieve commercial viability. If clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed, we would incur additional costs (including increased development expenses), and our receipt of any revenues from sales of the product candidate would be delayed. We may commence clinical trials with respect to LIXAR in 2013, and could possibly encounter problems with our completed or planned clinical trials that will delay or cause regulatory authorities, IRBs or us to suspend those clinical trials or the analysis of data from such trials. Any of the following could delay the completion of our planned clinical trials: • we, the FDA, a third party assisting us with product development or an IRB suspending or stopping a clinical trial; • discussions with the FDA regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delay in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, required permissions from regulators, IRBs or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • the number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; • exposure of participants to unacceptable health risks; 31 Table of Contents • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that had appeared to be promising; • we or our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or contractual obligations in a timely manner; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials; or • unfavorable FDA inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical investigation. Our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the seasonality of the disease, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, competing trials with other product candidates and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, subjects may drop out of clinical trials and thereby impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contract research organizations, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and academic institutions to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of the clinical trials for the product candidates we advance into clinical testing. Accordingly, we have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own, which could have an adverse impact on the conduct, timing and completion of our clinical trials and our ability to adhere to FDA regulations (commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices) for conducting, recording and reporting the results of our clinical trials. Although we have not previously experienced most of the foregoing risks with respect to our clinical trials, as a result of these risks, we or third parties upon whom we rely may not successfully begin or complete our clinical trials in the time periods forecasted, if at all. If the results of our planned clinical trials for our product candidates are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delays in the analysis of data from our clinical trials, we may be unable to submit results for regulatory approval or clearance or to conduct additional clinical trials on the schedule that we anticipate. If clinical trials are delayed, the commercial viability of any of our current or future product candidates that require clinical trials may be reduced. If we incur costs and delays in our programs, or if we do not successfully develop and commercialize our products, our future operating and financial results will be materially affected. If we are unable to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved, the nature of the disease or condition to be treated, and the scope of the regulatory approval being sought. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period, and changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations or medical and technical developments during the review process, may delay the approval or cause the rejection of an application. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may require additional clinical or non-clinical data as a condition of reviewing or approving an application. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. For example, we experienced delays in the approval of our new manufacturer for RETAVASE due to (1) additional data elements being requested by the FDA in its December 2012 CRL and (2) the drug product not achieving the established stability specifications. As a result, the delay in approval will increase our development costs and the timing of commercial launch. 32 Table of Contents If our clinical trials and other studies do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans, we may experience delays, incur additional costs and ultimately be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Depending upon the nature of the product candidate, obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates may require us and our collaborators to fund and conduct clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, uncertain as to outcome and, depending upon the design of the trial, takes several years or more to complete. Clinical data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their products performed satisfactorily in clinical trials were nonetheless unable to obtain FDA approval for their product candidates. Similarly, even if clinical trials of a product candidate are successful in one indication, clinical trials of that product candidate for other indications may be unsuccessful. One or more of our planned clinical trials could fail at any stage of testing. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, negative or inconclusive, or if there are safety concerns, we may be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for product candidates, not be able to obtain marketing approval, obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended or have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Delays in testing or obtaining approvals could cause our product development costs to increase, shorten the patent protection period during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates, allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. For example, in October 2012, we received a CRL from the FDA following its review of the NDA for LIXAR in which they requested that we complete additional clinical studies to further evaluate the efficacy and safety of lixivaptan in both heart failure patients and SIADH patients. We are requesting an End-of-Review meeting with the FDA’s Division of Cardiovascular and Renal Drug Products to better understand the contents of the CRL and the nature and scope of the additional clinical trials requested by the agency. Following that meeting, we will determine appropriate next steps for LIXAR, which may result in abandonment of the development program. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. There have been, there are and we expect there will continue to be federal and state legislative and administrative proposals that could limit the amount that government health care programs will pay to reimburse the cost of pharmaceutical products. Furthermore, private payers often implement reimbursement policies that are similar to those of government payers. For a discussion of the more important pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement issues applicable to us, please see the “Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement” section of “Item 1. Business” and “Risks Related to Financial Results” below. Legislative or administrative acts that reduce or discontinue reimbursement for our products could adversely impact our business. Any reduction or discontinuance in reimbursement for our products could materially harm our results of operations. In addition, we believe that the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact our product sales. Furthermore, when a new product is approved, governmental and private coverage for that product, and the amount for which that product will be reimbursed, are uncertain. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our product candidates, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. We cannot be certain that our currently marketed products will continue to be, or any of our product candidates still in development will be, included in the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit. Even if our products are included, the private health plans that administer the Medicare drug benefit can limit the number of prescription drugs that are covered on their formularies in each therapeutic category and class. In addition, 33 Table of Contents private managed care plans and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. Because many of these same private health plans administer the Medicare drug benefit, they have the ability to influence prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population. In addition, certain states have proposed or adopted various programs under their Medicaid programs to control drug prices, including price constraints, restrictions on access to certain products and bulk purchasing of drugs. If we succeed in bringing additional products to the market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our product candidates on a competitive basis to a sufficient patient population. Because our product candidates are in the development stage, we do not know whether payers will cover the products and the level of reimbursement, if any, we will receive for these product candidates if they are successfully developed, and we are unable at this time to determine the cost-effectiveness of these product candidates. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products and product candidates. Moreover, Health Care Reform includes funding for comparative effectiveness research and the establishment of committees, such as the Independent Payment Advisory Board, to analyze different payment systems (including bundled payments) and recommend payment reform and other cost-containment measures, which all could reduce reimbursement for our products. If the reimbursement we receive for any of our product candidates is inadequate in light of its development and other costs, our ability to realize profits from the affected product candidate would be limited. If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. We will spend considerable time and money complying with federal and state laws and regulations, and, if we are found not to be in compliance with such laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties. Health care providers play a primary role in the recommendation and prescribing of our products. Our arrangements with health care providers, third-party payers and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other health care laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we will market, sell and distribute our products. For a discussion of the more important laws and regulations applicable to us, please see the “Regulatory Matters,” “Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement” and “Fraud and Abuse Regulation” sections of “Item 1. Business” above. We participate in the MDRP established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended, effective in 1993. Under the MDRP, we pay a rebate for each unit of our product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law. We are also required to pay certain statutorily defined rebates on Medicaid purchases for reimbursement on prescription drugs under state Medicaid plans. There have been enhanced political attention, governmental scrutiny and litigation at the federal and state levels regarding the prices paid or reimbursed for pharmaceutical products under Medicaid and other government programs. Although we estimate that less than 3% of our sales qualify for Medicaid rebates, any investigation of our rebate practices could be costly, could divert the attention of our management away from operations and could damage our reputation. Health Care Reform includes a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government’s ability to pursue federal anti-kickback and federal false claims act cases against health care entities, such as increased funding for health care fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers and amendments to the federal false claims act to make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue alleged violations. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under the federal fraud and abuse laws for allegedly providing consulting fees, grants, free travel and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company’s products, allegedly misrepresenting the pricing data which the federal government uses to set reimbursement rates and calculate Medicaid rebates under the MDRP and allegedly causing false claims to be submitted because of the company’s marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus 34 Table of Contents non-reimbursable, uses. This new growth in litigation and enforcement action has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claims action, which can be expensive, time consuming and distracting, and can potentially impact its financial performance. Efforts to help ensure that our business arrangements comply with the extensive federal and state health care laws and regulations to which we are subject are costly. It is possible that governmental authorities may conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future health care laws or regulations. If our past or present operations, including activities conducted by our sales teams or agents, are found to be in violation of any of these laws or regulations, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, a corporate integrity agreement (which would require ongoing compliance and reporting obligations to the federal government) and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, they may also be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusion from federal health care programs. Many aspects of the health care laws and regulations to which we are subject have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of subjective interpretations, which increases the risk of potential violations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against the action, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation, business operations and financial results. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and Licenses If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology and products, whether such technology is owned by us or licensed to us by third parties. Patent protection in the pharmaceutical field is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We and our licensors may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our respective technology or products. Even if issued, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the longevity of the patent protection we may have for our products. Additionally, changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Our owned or licensed patents also may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in our or our licensors’ patent applications. If a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the USPTO in the United States. These proceedings are costly and time-consuming, and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent protection. In addition, U.S. patents generally expire, regardless of the date of issue, 20 years from the earliest claimed non-provisional filing date. Because the timing for submission of our applications to the FDA for regulatory approval of our product candidates is uncertain and, once submitted, the FDA regulatory process and timing for regulatory approval with respect to our product candidates is unpredictable, our estimates regarding the commercialization dates of our product candidates are subject to change. Accordingly, the length of time, if any, our product candidates, once commercialized, will remain subject to patent protection is uncertain. Our collaborators and licensors may have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and, although we may have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if these third parties do not, our ability to maintain and defend our intellectual property rights may be compromised 35 Table of Contents by the acts or omissions of these third parties. For example, under our license agreement covering certain patents that we license from SkyePharma PLC and Jagotec and which cover ZYFLO, SkyePharma PLC is responsible for and controls the preparation and prosecution of all patent applications, and has the sole right to enforce the resulting patents against any alleged infringer. If SkyePharma PLC declines to enforce the licensed patents, our only remedy is to cease paying royalties. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions or to bring such actions to a successful conclusion. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial cost and divert the time and attention of our management and scientific personnel in pursuit of these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. None of our current products or current product candidates — except for LIXAR — have, or will have, composition of matter patent protection. Some of our currently marketed products do not have patent protection and may face generic competition. In addition, although we exclusively license United States patents and patent applications with claims directed to the pharmaceutical formulations of our product candidates, methods of use of our product candidates to treat particular conditions, delivery systems for our product candidates, delivery profiles of our product candidates and methods for producing our product candidates, patent protection is not available for composition of matter claims directed to the APIs of any of our products or product candidates except for LIXAR. The composition of matter U.S. patents for lixivaptan that are used in LIXAR will expire in July 2013. When the composition of matter patents for the API in LIXAR expire, competitors will be able to offer and sell products with the same API so long as these competitors do not infringe any other patents that we or third parties hold, including formulation and method of use patents. However, method of use patents, in particular, are more difficult to enforce than composition of matter patents because of the risk of off-label sale or use of the subject compounds. Physicians are permitted to prescribe an approved product for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling. Although off-label prescriptions may infringe our method of use patents, the practice is common across medical specialties and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Off-label sales would limit our ability to generate revenue from the sale of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. In addition, if a third party were able to design around our formulation and process patents and create a different formulation using a different production process not covered by our patents or patent applications, we would likely be unable to prevent that third party from manufacturing and marketing its product. Our patents may be challenged by ANDA applicants. If a drug is claimed to be covered by an unexpired patent that the NDA holder has listed with the FDA, an ANDA applicant must certify in a so-called paragraph IV certification that the patent is invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the product that is the subject of the ANDA. If the holder of the NDA sues the ANDA applicant within 45 days of being notified of the paragraph IV certification, the FDA will not approve the ANDA until the earlier of a court decision favorable to the ANDA applicant or the expiration of 30 months. Jagotec, the licensed manufacturer and supplier of ZYFLO CR cores, determined a patent that it owned was applicable to ZYFLO CR, and we subsequently listed this patent in the Orange Book in December 2011. Any ANDA applicant whose application was already on file with the FDA at the time of listing of this patent in the Orange Book would not have to certify that either (i) it did not infringe the patent or (ii) the patent was not valid. As a result we would not have the benefit of the 30-month stay associated with such certifications. We would nonetheless be able to enforce this patent by filing suit and seeking an injunction. If we initiate legal proceedings to seek to protect our ZYFLO CR brand, the costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful. Trademark protection of our products may not provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. We use trademarks on most of our currently marketed products and believe that having distinctive marks is an important factor in marketing those products. Distinctive marks may also be important for any additional products that we successfully develop and commercially market. However, we generally do not expect our marks 36 Table of Contents to provide a meaningful competitive advantage over other branded or generic products. We believe that efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payers are, and are likely to continue to be, more important factors in the commercial success of our products and, if approved, our product candidates. For example, physicians and patients may not readily associate our trademark with the applicable product or API. In addition, prescriptions written for a branded product are typically filled with the generic version at the pharmacy if an approved generic is available, resulting in a significant loss in sales of the branded product, including for indications for which the generic version has not been approved for marketing by the FDA. Competitors also may use marks or names that are similar to our trademarks or seek to cancel our similar trademarks based on the competitor’s prior use. If we initiate legal proceedings to seek to protect our trademarks, the costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We have acquired intellectual property rights relating to most of our products and product candidates under license agreements with third parties and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. These licenses provide us with rights to intellectual property that is necessary for our business. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various obligations related to development and commercialization activities, milestone and royalty payments, sublicensing, patent protection and maintenance, insurance and other similar obligations common in these types of agreements. If we fail to comply with our obligations under these agreements, the licensors may have the right to terminate the license in its entirety, terminate the exclusive nature of the license or bring a claim against us for damages. Any such termination or claim could prevent or impede our ability to develop or market any product candidate or product, respectively, that is covered by the licensed patents. Even if we contest any such termination or claim and are ultimately successful, we could suffer adverse consequences to our operations and business interests. For a description of the licenses covering our more important products, please see “Item 1. Business — License and Collaboration Agreements.” If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We seek to protect our unpatented proprietary information in part by confidentiality agreements with our current and potential collaborators, employees, consultants, strategic partners, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or may be independently developed by competitors. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, our competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. For example, while CUROSURF does not enjoy patent protection, CUROSURF requires a unique and intricate manufacturing process for production. If a competitor obtains the know-how needed to develop its own version of CUROSURF and successfully gains FDA approval for such, our business could be adversely impacted. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, our business will be adversely affected. Our development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may subsequently issue and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents or patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our 37 Table of Contents collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if such claims are successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement or other similar claims or to avoid potential claims, we or our potential future collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. There have been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the USPTO, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Many of our employees were previously employed at other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including competitors or potential competitors. We try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us. However, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee’s former employer. We may be required to engage in litigation to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in such litigation, the litigation could result in substantial costs to us and/or be distracting to our management. If we fail to defend or are unsuccessful in defending against any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Risks Relating to Financial Results Legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system in the U.S. may affect our ability to sell and develop our products profitably. Government regulation in the U.S. can determine the success of our efforts to market or develop our products. We expect the implementation of Health Care Reform to transform the delivery of and payment for health care services in the United States. The combination of these measures will continue to expand health insurance coverage to an estimated 32 million Americans. In addition, there are significant health insurance reforms that will improve patients’ ability to obtain and maintain health insurance. Such measures include the elimination of lifetime caps, no rescission of policies and no denial of coverage due to preexisting conditions. The expansion of health care insurance and these additional market reforms should result in greater access to our products; however, the substantial increase in the number of Americans with health insurance will not occur until 2014. Moreover, a number of provisions contained in Health Care Reform may adversely affect reimbursement for our products. Effective January 2, 2010, Health Care Reform retroactively increased the minimum basic Medicaid rebate for brand-name prescription drugs from 15.1% to 23.1% and for generic drugs from 11% to 13%, potentially increased the additional Medicaid rebate calculation for “line extensions” of oral solid dosage forms of innovator products, expanded the entities eligible for 340B pricing and revised the average manufacturer price definition to remove certain classes of trade. In addition, in March 2010, pharmaceutical manufacturers were required to pay states rebates on prescription drugs dispensed to Medicaid MCO enrollees. 38 Table of Contents Beginning on January 1, 2011, Health Care Reform required drug manufacturers to provide a 50% discount on brand-name prescriptions filled in the Medicare Part D “coverage gap,” also known as the donut hole. The legislation mandates the gradual elimination of the coverage gap, beginning in 2011 and finishing in 2020. Moreover, Health Care Reform reduces Part D premium subsidies for higher-income beneficiaries, expands medication therapy management requirements and makes a number of other revisions to Part D program requirements. The elimination of the coverage gap may result in greater access to our products for Part D beneficiaries. Beginning in 2011, Health Care Reform imposed a significant annual fee (which is not tax deductible) payable to the federal government on all companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products, which annual fee will increase through 2019. The total annual fee payable by the industry will be allocated based on a company’s “market share” of all branded prescription drug sales to certain government programs during a certain period. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance are also included, which may require us to modify the manner in which we advertise, promote and distribute product samples to health care practitioners. Furthermore, Health Care Reform created the Independent Payment Advisory Board to recommend and implement proposals to limit Medicare spending, which could impact reimbursement for prescription drugs. We are unable to predict the future course of federal or state health care legislation and regulations, including regulations that will be issued to implement provisions of Health Care Reform or legal and legislative challenges to all or portions of Health Care Reform. The financial impact of Health Care Reform may be affected by certain additional factors over the next few years, including pending implementation guidance, certain proposed reforms, repeals and legal challenges and state legislatures’ reactions stemming from state budget deficits. Health Care Reform and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our net product sales or increase our costs could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred and may in the future incur significant indebtedness, which may restrict the manner in which we conduct business and limit our ability to implement elements of our growth strategy. On June 21, 2012, we incurred significant indebtedness by entering into a credit agreement, or Credit Agreement, with Chiesi in connection with our acquisition of EKR. Subject to the terms of our existing indebtedness, we may also incur additional indebtedness to meet future financing needs, which would increase our total debt. Our current indebtedness contains (and any future indebtedness may contain) restrictions on the manner in which we conduct our business and limitations on our ability to implement elements of our growth strategy, including with respect to: • limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt financing; • the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; • requiring us to issue debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; • compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business; • the possibility that we are put at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that do not have as much debt as us, and competitors that may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources; and • limitations on our ability to execute business development activities to support our strategies. To service our senior secured term loan facility with Chiesi, or Term Loan Facility, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make the payments required under our Term Loan Facility will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not 39 Table of Contents generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional equity financing or seek third-party financing to satisfy such obligations. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to satisfy our obligations under our existing and any future indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and business. If we do not comply with the covenants in the Credit Agreement governing the Term Loan Facility or otherwise default under the Credit Agreement, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all of our indebtedness that could become due. The Credit Agreement requires us to comply with certain covenants, including a prepayment provision if our ratio of consolidated secured debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) is at least 2 to 1 for any fiscal year ending on or after December 31, 2013. In addition, the Credit Agreement prohibits us from incurring any additional indebtedness, except in specified circumstances. The Credit Agreement also restricts our ability to acquire and dispose of assets, engage in mergers and reorganizations, or make investments. A violation of any of these covenants could cause an event of default under the Credit Agreement. If we default under the Credit Agreement because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable. We may not have sufficient funds or the ability to raise sufficient funds to repay all of the outstanding amounts, and any acceleration of amounts due under the Credit Agreement would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and our business. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development, commercialization or acquisition efforts. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant development expenses in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly if and when we conduct clinical trials for product candidates. In addition, we incur significant commercialization expenses related to our currently marketed products for sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution. We expect these commercialization expenses to increase in future periods if we are successful in obtaining FDA approval to market our product candidates or any newly acquired products. We have used, and expect to continue to use, revenue from sales of our marketed products to fund a significant portion of the development costs of our product candidates and to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure. However, we may need substantial additional funding for these purposes and may be unable to raise capital when needed or on acceptable terms, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development programs or commercialization efforts. As of December 31, 2012, we had $56.3 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand. Based on our current operating plans, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and revenue from product sales are sufficient to continue to fund our existing level of operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the level of product sales and product returns of our currently marketed products and any additional products that we may market in the future; • the scope, progress, results and costs of development activities for our current product candidates; • the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of our product candidates; • the number of, and development requirements for, additional product candidates that we pursue; • the costs of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; • the costs and timing of establishing manufacturing and supply arrangements for clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and products; • the extent to which we acquire or invest in products, businesses and technologies; 40 Table of Contents • the extent to which we choose to establish collaboration, co-promotion, distribution or other similar arrangements for our marketed products and product candidates; and • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending claims related to intellectual property owned by or licensed to us. The terms of any additional capital funding that we require may not be favorable to us or our stockholders. To the extent that our capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital requirements, we will need to finance our cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements or other financing alternatives. Additional equity or debt financing, or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, as we did in our transaction with Chiesi, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing requires that payments of principal and interest be made at specified times and such payments may represent a significant portion of or our revenues. Additionally such financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any agreements governing debt or equity financing may also contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences, that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may be required to relinquish valuable rights to our future revenue streams or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period. We anticipate that there may be fluctuations in our future operating results. Potential causes of future fluctuations in our operating results may include: • acquisition activity; • new product launches, which could increase revenues but also increase sales and marketing expenses; • charges for inventory expiration or product quality issues; • changes in the amount and timing of sales of our products due to changes in product pricing, changes in the prevalence of disease conditions or generic competition from period to period or other factors; • the timing of operating expenses, including selling and marketing expenses and the costs of maintaining a direct sales force; • changes in research and development expenses resulting from the acquisition of product candidates or from general and industry-specific economic conditions; • changes in the competitive, regulatory or reimbursement environment, including the amounts of rebates, discounts, holdbacks, chargebacks and returns, which could decrease revenues or increase sales and marketing, product development or compliance costs; • unexpected product liability or intellectual property claims and lawsuits; • significant payments, such as milestones, required under collaboration, licensing and development agreements before the related product or product candidate has received FDA approval or been sold in commercial quantities; • marketing exclusivity, if any, which may be obtained on certain new products; • the dependence on a small number of products for a significant portion of net revenues and net income; • price erosion and customer consolidation; • the results of ongoing and planned clinical trials of our product candidates; • the results of regulatory reviews relating to the development or approval of our product candidates; and • production problems occurring at our third-party manufacturers. 41 Table of Contents We may incur losses in accordance with GAAP in the future. We experienced a GAAP net loss in 2012 and 2011, and we may be unable to generate profits on a GAAP basis, even if we are able to commercialize additional products. We incur significant non-cash expenses including amortization of product rights, stock compensation and changes in our acquisition-related contingent payments. These non-cash expenses may continue to result in future GAAP net losses. Our non-GAAP net income for the years ending December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $16.3 million, $9.2 million and $18.9 million, respectively. For information on our non-GAAP financial measures used by management for planning and forecasting, refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures”. To date, we have financed our operations primarily with revenue from product sales and debt and equity financings. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to: • establishing a sales and marketing infrastructure; • acquiring marketed products, product candidates and related technologies; • commercializing marketed products; and • developing product candidates, including conducting clinical trials. We expect to continue to incur significant development and commercialization expenses as we: • advance the development of product candidates; and • seek regulatory approvals for product candidates that successfully complete clinical testing. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenue that is sufficient to regain and then sustain or increase GAAP profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Any failure to regain and then sustain and increase profitability could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings and continue operations. If the estimates that we make, or the assumptions upon which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, the actual results may vary from those reflected in our estimates and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, stockholders’ equity, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. For example, at the same time we recognize revenues for product sales, we also record an adjustment, or decrease, to revenue for estimated chargebacks, rebates, discounts, vouchers and returns, which management determines on a product-by-product basis as its best estimate at the time of sale based on each product’s historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves. Actual sales allowances may exceed our estimates for a variety of reasons, including unanticipated competition, regulatory actions or changes in one or more of our contractual relationships. In addition, if we divest any of our products, we make estimates of our continuing liabilities for chargebacks, rebates, discounts, vouchers and returns based upon the terms of the divestiture transaction and expected market conditions and sales performance of the buyer. Our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, including the sales performance of the buyers of our divested products, may prove to be incorrect. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we record in connection with acquisitions become impaired, we may be required to record significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for our recent acquisitions, we recorded significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets has been impaired. In addition, 42 Table of Contents amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to Employee Matters and Managing Growth If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, or to retain our executive management team, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our products and product candidates. Recruiting and retaining highly qualified commercial, scientific, technical and managerial personnel and research partners is critical to our success. Future acquisitions of companies or products may require expansion of our commercial team and expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as clinical trials, governmental approvals and contract manufacturing, which will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. These demands may require us to hire additional personnel and will require our existing management personnel to develop additional expertise. We face competition for personnel. The failure to attract and retain personnel or to develop such expertise could impair our ability to independently market and promote our products or delay or halt the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. If we experience difficulties in hiring and retaining personnel in key positions, we could suffer from delays in product development, loss of customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect operating results. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by third parties and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with third parties that may limit their availability to us. We depend to a great extent on the principal members of our management. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could cause us to incur additional costs to recruit replacements. Each member of our executive management team may terminate his employment at any time. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance with respect to any of our executives. Furthermore, if we decide to recruit new executive personnel, we will incur additional costs. We may not be able to replace key personnel internally or without additional costs in the future. Our inability to attract and retain the executive talent necessary to manage and grow our company could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Common Stock Our stock price is subject to fluctuation, which may cause an investment in our stock to suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include, but are not limited to the following, as they relate to us and (as applicable) our competitors: • the results of non-clinical studies and clinical trials; • significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. • the entry into, amendment or termination of key agreements, including licensing and collaboration agreements; • the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of product candidates; • the initiation of material developments in or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend intellectual property rights; 43 Table of Contents • failure of any product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect research and development expenditures; • issues in manufacturing products or product candidates; • recall or withdrawal of a product or products; • the loss of key employees; • the acquisition, development or introduction of technologies, product candidates or products; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems; • regulatory actions with respect to products; • our financial results, including period-to-period fluctuations in those results; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; and • future sales of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Chiesi has substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, including a transaction in which our stockholders could sell or exchange their shares for a premium, as well as prevent us from entering into certain transactions. As a result of our July 28, 2009 strategic transaction with Chiesi, Chiesi acquired a majority of our common stock and assumed substantial control over our company. The governance agreement with Chiesi that we entered into in connection with the Chiesi transaction terminated on July 28, 2011. Since Chiesi continues to own a majority of our common stock and the governance agreement was not renewed or replaced by a similar arrangement, Chiesi has the ability to exercise significant control over our company. Delaware law provides that directors, including those appointed by Chiesi, have fiduciary duties to all stockholders and also provides safeguards in certain situations to ensure that all stockholders are treated fairly. As a majority stockholder, Chiesi may nonetheless be able, without a meeting or prior notice to our other stockholders, to (1) remove our directors with or without cause; (2) approve or disapprove significant corporate actions, such as a sale of our company; (3) cause the removal of our management, including our executive officers; and (4) take or cause to be taken or not take or cause not to be taken other significant corporate actions. As a result of Chiesi’s ownership and control over our company, we consider ourselves to be a “Controlled Company” under NASDAQ rules, which means, among other things, that NASDAQ does not require us to maintain a majority of independent directors or nominating and compensation committees comprised solely of independent directors. We cannot be certain that the interests of Chiesi will be consistent with the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, Chiesi’s majority ownership of and control over our company may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, Chiesi, either alone or with other existing stockholders (including members of our management), could effectively receive a premium for transferring ownership to third parties that would not inure to the benefit of other stockholders. In addition, although the Governance Agreement has expired, our certificate of incorporation still provides that, so long as Chiesi beneficially owns (together with its affiliates) not less than 40% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis (as defined in our certificate of incorporation) we must seek approval from Chiesi to, among other things, (1) consummate an acquisition of any business or assets for a price in excess of $25,000,000; (2) sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of a business or assets for a price in excess of 44 Table of Contents $25,000,000 (other than a sale in the ordinary course of business); (3) issue any equity security or other capital stock other than pursuant to employee incentive plans or upon the exercise of any option, warrant, or similar right; and (4) repurchase or redeem any equity security other than redemptions required by the terms thereof, purchases made at fair market value in connection with any deferred compensation plan and repurchases of unvested or restricted stock issued pursuant to any employee, officer, director or consultant compensation plan. As a result of these provisions, Chiesi has the right to prevent us from entering into certain transactions that have been approved by our management or our Board of Directors, which could prevent us from pursuing our preferred growth strategy or otherwise taking actions that our management and Board of Directors believe to be in the best interests of our company. The proposal made by our majority stockholder, Chiesi, to acquire all of our outstanding common stock may not result in a definitive offer, and even if the proposal results in a definitive offer, we may fail to enter into an agreement with Chiesi and this or any other transaction may not be approved or consummated. The absence of a proposal to acquire our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. On February 18, 2013, our Board of Directors received the proposal from Chiesi, our majority stockholder, described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –Going-Private Proposal.” We caution our stockholders and others considering trading in our securities that, as of March 14, 2013, no decisions have been made by our Board of Directors or the Special Committee of our Board with respect to our response to this proposal. The proposal submitted was not a definitive offer, and a definitive offer may not be made, an agreement may not be executed or a definitive offer, if made with respect to the proposal or any other transaction, may not be approved or consummated. On the last trading day prior to the announcement of the proposal, the closing trading price of our common stock was $5.50 per share. After the announcement, the trading price of our common stock increased and traded closer to the $6.40 to $6.70 per share proposal price range. However, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant volatility since the announcement. If this proposal were rejected or withdrawn and if no similar transaction presented itself, our stock price could fall below its current trading range. In addition, costs associated with the evaluation of the proposal and any related processes may be considerable regardless of whether any definitive agreement is entered into or any transaction is consummated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 