Risk Factors” section. We cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain profitability or that our operating losses will not increase in the future. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot be certain that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. The market for ethanol produced from corn has continued to deteriorate. Corn is the principal raw material we use to produce ethanol and ethanol by-products. Recently, the prices of corn have significantly increased, averaging over $5.25 per bushel in March 2008, while purchases of ethanol by oil refiners to blend into gasoline have flattened. In general, rising corn prices result in lower profit margins and may result in negative margins if not accompanied by increases in ethanol prices. We believe that the increasing ethanol production capacity has contributed to, and will continue to contribute to, a period of elevated corn prices compared to historical levels. Under current market conditions, because ethanol competes with fuels that are not corn-based, we generally cannot pass along increased corn costs to our customers. At certain levels, corn prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in markets and volumes above the requirements set forth in the renewable fuels standard or for which ethanol is used as an oxygenate in order to meet federal and state fuel emission standards. The vast increase in U.S. ethanol capacity under construction could outpace increases in corn production, which may further increase corn prices and increase our operating losses. According to the Renewable Fuels Association, as of December 2007, approximately 5.8 billion gallons per year of production capacity is currently under construction. Demand for ethanol may not increase as quickly as expected or to a level that exceeds supply, or may not increase at all. If the ethanol industry has excess capacity resulting from the increases in capacity coupled with insufficient demand, the market price of ethanol may decline to a level that is inadequate to general sufficient cash flow to cover our costs. The lower profit margins caused by rising corn prices coupled with the decline in the prices of ethanol would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our Blairstown, Iowa ethanol plant, which is our only operating asset, is not competitive with newer, larger plants operated by our competitors and continues to operate at a loss. The ethanol production industry is highly competitive with approximately 139 ethanol production plants currently operational in the U.S., with additional 68 plants under expansion or construction. A number of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and depth of operations than we do. In addition, there is clearly a consolidation trend in the ethanol industry. As of March 4, 2008, the top five producers accounted for approximately 41% of the ethanol production capacity in the U.S. according to the Renewable Fuels Association. The lower profit margins caused by rising corn prices favor the larger ethanol producers who have economies of scale and cost advantages, which we do not have. We have continued to operate at a loss and cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to operate profitably in a more competitive environment. 26 We will need to raise additional funds to achieve our business objectives. As of March 14, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $9.5 million, compared to cash and cash equivalents of $20.8 million as of March 31, 2007. We need additional funds to pursue our revised business strategy. In particular, we intend to build a demonstration plant in Florida to convert citrus peel waste into ethanol. The planned cost for the two-year build-out of the demonstration plant is approximately $5,900,000. On January 22, 2008, the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services approved a $500,000 grant that we expect to use to defray part of these costs. We plan to apply for federal government grants and combine private equity with those grants to supplement the state grant. If we do not receive these federal grants, we will need to raise additional equity to build this plant as we intend. We will also use cash on hand to cover corporate overhead and fund our research and development agreements. We currently have no commitments for any additional financing, and there can be no assurance that we can obtain additional capital on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Our failure to raise capital as needed would significantly restrict our growth and hinder our ability to compete. We have curtailed our expenses and may need to take further steps in that regard. We may also have to reduce planned investments in technology and research and development and to forgo other business opportunities. Additional equity financings are likely to be dilutive to holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may require significant payment obligations and covenants that restrict how we operate our business. We do not presently intend to pursue the manufacture and sale of a diesel biofuel based on H2Diesel’s technology, which previously was one of our key strategies. In April 2006, we entered into an exclusive, sublicense agreement with H2Diesel, Inc. that permits us to manufacture and sell a diesel biofuel based on H2Diesel’s technology. H2Diesel is the licensee of a proprietary vegetable oil-based diesel biofuel to be used as a substitute for conventional petroleum diesel and biodiesel, heating and other fuels. We previously stated that we intended to collaborate with H2Diesel in the development and testing of the technology to accelerate its commercialization. We have decided not to pursue the manufacture and sale of a diesel biofuel based on H2Diesel’s technology, thus we no longer have the ability to use that technology to grow our business. We may be unable to liquidate our investment in H2Diesel Holdings, Inc. As of March 1, 2008, we owned 5,670,000 shares of H2Diesel Holdings, Inc. common stock, which represented approximately 31.2% of the common stock then outstanding. H2Diesel Holdings’ common stock has recently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board at approximately $5.00 per share. Because we are an “affiliate” of H2Diesel Holdings, however, we can sell our H2Diesel Holdings stock on the OTC Bulletin Board only in compliance with SEC Rule 144, which limits the amount of shares we can sell in any three month period to 1% of the shares of the class outstanding as shown by the most recent report or statement published by H2Diesel Holdings. Due to this limitation, the size of our investment, uncertainties in the future business and financial performance of H2Diesel Holdings and the fact that the trading prices of shares of H2Diesel Holdings on the OTC Bulletin Board have varied considerably over time, we cannot realize the nominal value of those shares and may be unable to realize a material portion of it. Because we are smaller and have fewer financial and other resources than many ethanol producers, we may not be able to compete successfully in the very competitive ethanol industry. Ethanol is a commodity, and there is significant competition among existing ethanol producers. Our business faces competition from a number of producers that can produce significantly greater volumes of ethanol than we can or expect to produce, producers that can produce a wider range of products than we can, and producers that have the financial and other resources that would enable them to expand their production rapidly if they chose to do so. Some of these producers have achieved substantial economies of scale and scope, thereby substantially reducing their fixed production costs and their marginal production costs. We may be unable to produce ethanol at a cost that allows us to operate profitably. Even if we are able to operate profitably, these other producers may be substantially more profitable than we are, which may make it more difficult for us to raise any financing necessary for us to achieve our business plan and may have a materially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 27 Competition from large producers of petroleum-based gasoline additives and other competitive products may adversely affect our financial performance. Our success depends substantially upon continued demand for ethanol from major oil refiners. We believe that other gasoline additives that have octane and oxygenate values similar to those of ethanol currently cannot be produced at a cost that makes them competitive. The major oil refiners have significantly greater financial, technological and personal resources than we have to reduce the costs of producing these alternative products or to develop other alternative products that may be produced at lower cost. The major oil refiners also have significantly greater resources than we have to influence legislation and public perception of ethanol. If the major oil refiners are able to produce ethanol substitutes at a cost that is lower than the cost of ethanol production, the demand for ethanol may substantially decrease. A substantial decrease in the demand for ethanol will reduce the price of ethanol, adversely affect our profitability and decrease the value of your stock. Our financial results are directly affected by corn supply and feedstock prices, which could adversely affect the value of your investment. We currently produce ethanol only from corn as our feedstock. Corn, as with most other crops, is affected by weather, governmental policy, disease and other conditions. A significant reduction in the quantity of corn harvested due to adverse weather conditions, farmer planting decisions, domestic and foreign government farm programs and policies, global demand and supply or other factors could result in increased corn costs which would increase our cost to produce ethanol. The significance and relative impact of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Corn prices have in fact increased sharply over the past several months, and those higher prices have made it more costly for us to produce ethanol. We believe that growing demand for ethanol has been a key factor in this increase. Significant variations in actual growing conditions from normal growing conditions may also adversely affect our ability to procure corn for our plants. Any events that tend to reduce the supply of corn will tend to increase prices and harm our business. Rising corn prices have resulted in lower margins for the production of ethanol and, therefore, represent unfavorable market conditions. This is especially true when market conditions do not allow us to pass along increased corn costs to our customers. The price of corn has fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, and the price of corn increased materially in 2007 and has continued to increase in 2008. Substantial increases in the price of corn have in the past caused some ethanol plants to temporarily cease production or lose money. A $1.00 per bushel increase in the price of corn at our Blairstown plant increases our costs by approximately $1.8 million per year. Due in part to the high cost of corn, our Blairstown facility operates at a loss. We cannot assure you that we will be able to offset any increase in the price of corn by increasing the price of our products. If we cannot offset increases in the price of corn, our financial performance may be materially and adversely affected. If ethanol and gasoline prices drop significantly, we will also be forced to reduce our prices, which potentially may lead to further losses. Prices for ethanol products can vary significantly over time and decreases in price levels could adversely affect our financial results and viability. The price of ethanol has some relation to the price of gasoline. The price of ethanol tends to increase as the price of gasoline increases, and the price of ethanol tends to decrease as the price of gasoline decreases. Any lowering of gasoline prices will likely also lead to lower prices for ethanol and adversely affect our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our ethanol profitably, or at all. Increased ethanol production in the United States is expected to increase the demand for feedstocks and the resulting price of feedstocks, which will adversely affect our financial performance. New ethanol plants are under construction throughout the United States. This increased ethanol production has increased and is expected to continue to increase feedstock demand and prices (particularly for corn), resulting in higher production costs and lower financial performance. 28 We currently rely on a single production facility. If there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at the facility, we may be unable to produce ethanol. Since July 2005, we have relied on our Xethanol BioFuels facility in Blairstown, Iowa for the production of ethanol. All of our sales in 2006 and 2007 were from our Blairstown facility. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption at this facility due to fire, tornado, flood or any other cause could impair our ability to produce ethanol at the facility. While we maintain business interruption insurance, as well as general property insurance, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our losses in such an event. Any of these occurrences could impair our ability to produce ethanol and adversely affect our operating results. For example, production at our Blairstown facility was interrupted for approximately two weeks in the first quarter of 2007 caused by power outages resulting from severe weather during the quarter, and we can offer no assurances that similar or even longer disruptions will not occur in the future. We rely on a single customer to purchase all of the ethanol we produce, and if that customer fails to purchase our production, we may be unable to sell ethanol. We sell all of the ethanol produced at our Blairstown facility to Aventine Renewable Energy, Inc. under an exclusive, renewable three-year off-take agreement. Our sales are at market prices less the costs of transportation and Aventine’s marketing commission. Aventine is the second-largest producer and marketer of ethanol in the United States. We cannot assure you that if Aventine fails to purchase our ethanol production for any reason, we would be able to find other customers to purchase all or any part of it. If this occurs, our operating results would be materially adversely affected. Price increases or interruptions in needed energy supplies could cause loss of customers and impair our financial performance. Ethanol production requires a constant and consistent supply of energy. If there is any interruption in our supply of energy for whatever reason, such as availability, delivery or mechanical problems, we may be required to halt production. If we halt production for any extended period, it will have a material, adverse effect on our business. Natural gas and electricity prices have historically fluctuated significantly. We purchase significant amounts of these resources as part of our ethanol production. Increases in the price of natural gas or electricity would harm our business and financial results by increasing our energy costs. In fact, during the past 18 months, the price of natural gas has varied from a high of $8.53 per dekatherm to a low of $4.52, causing a change in production cost of $0.17 per gallon of ethanol we produce. During the same period, our purchase price of corn has also varied from a high of $4.17 per bushel to a low of $2.14, causing a change in production cost of $0.75 per gallon of ethanol we produce. Our biomass-to-ethanol technologies are unproven on a large-scale commercial basis and we have been unable to implement them in a commercial production environment. While production of ethanol from corn, sugars and starches is a mature technology, newer technologies for production of ethanol from biomass are still in a development stage. The technologies that we are pursuing for ethanol production from biomass have never been used on a large-scale commercial basis. All of the tests that we have conducted to date on our biomass technologies have been performed on limited quantities of feedstocks, and we cannot assure you that we can obtain the same or similar results at competitive costs on a large-scale commercial basis. We have never used these biomass technologies under the conditions or in the volumes that will be required to be profitable, and we cannot predict all of the difficulties that may arise. These technologies will require further research, development, design and testing before we can implement them on a larger-scale commercial application. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that these technologies will perform successfully on a large-scale commercial basis or that they will be profitable to us. Any strategic acquisitions we make could have a dilutive effect on your investment. Failure to make accretive acquisitions and successfully integrate them could adversely affect our future financial results. As part of our growth strategy, we will seek to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, facilities or technologies. We intend, after we make an acquisition, to integrate the acquired assets into our operations and 29 reduce operating expenses. The process of integrating these acquired assets into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. We cannot assure you that we will in fact realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we make. In addition, our future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Acquisitions also involve other risks, including entering geographic markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and the potential loss of key employees. As of March 1, 2008, we have issued 2,948,357 shares of our common stock in connection with strategic acquisitions. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we charged $3,635,416 to expense, representing the unamortized cost of license agreements obtained as a result of four of our technology acquisitions and to write off $205,000 of goodwill associated with our now-closed Permeate facility. The success of our business depends, in part, upon proprietary technologies and information that may be difficult to protect and may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. We believe that the identification, acquisition and development of proprietary technologies are key drivers of our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, license the patents of others, maintain the secrecy of our proprietary technology and information, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently license a number of issued United States patents. We also have patent applications pending and are in the process of filing additional patent applications in the United States. We may in the future file foreign patent applications. We cannot assure you that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, that the patents that we license will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties, that any of our pending patent applications will be approved, that we will develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable or that any patents issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. Further, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop similar or superior technologies, duplicate elements of our biomass technology or design around it. To successfully commercialize our proprietary technologies, we may need to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, issued or pending patents or claims of third parties. We cannot assure you that any license acquired under those patents would be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we would prevail in any such contest. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us for alleged infringement of another party’s patents or in defending the validity or enforceability of our patents, or in bringing patent infringement suits against other parties based on our patents. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technology that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our prospective joint venture partners, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. We depend upon our officers and key personnel, and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our operations and results. We believe that the implementation of our proposed expansion strategy and execution of our business plan will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our officers and key personnel. We believe that the personal contacts of our officers and key personnel within the industry and within the scientific community engaged in related research are a significant factor in our continued success. Our failure to retain our officers or key personnel, or to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, could adversely affect our operations and results. We do not currently carry key-man life insurance on any of our officers. See “Management.” 30 Risks Related to Government Regulation and Subsidization The United States ethanol industry depends heavily on federal and state legislation and regulation, and any changes in that legislation or regulation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The elimination or significant reduction in the federal ethanol tax incentive could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The cost of producing ethanol has historically been significantly higher than the market price of gasoline. Federal tax incentives make the production of ethanol significantly more competitive. The federal excise tax incentive program, which is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010, allows gasoline distributors who blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sell regardless of the blend rate. The current federal excise tax on gasoline is $0.184 per gallon, which is paid at the terminal by refiners and marketers. If the fuel is blended with ethanol, the blender may claim a $0.51 per gallon tax credit for each gallon of ethanol used in the mixture. The tax credit is scheduled to be reduced to $0.46 per gallon in 2009. We cannot assure you that the federal ethanol tax incentives will be renewed in 2010 or if renewed, on what terms they will be renewed. The elimination or significant reduction in the federal ethanol tax incentive could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Waivers or repeal of the minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline mandated by the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 established a renewable fuel standard of 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuels to be included in gasoline annually by 2012. On December 19, 2007, President Bush signed into law the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which establishes new levels of renewable fuel mandates for conventional biofuel and advanced biofuel. The Energy Independence and Security Act increased the mandated minimum use of renewable fuels to 9 billion gallons per year in 2008 (up from 5.4 billon gallons per year under the previous renewable fuel standard), which further increases to 36 billon gallons per year in 2022. Under the Energy Policy Act, the Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuel standard mandate with respect to one or more states if the administrator determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the United States, or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. Shortly after passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 in December 2007, a Congressional sub-committee held hearings on the potential impact of the new renewable fuel standard on commodity prices. Although the sub-committee took no action towards repeal of the new renewable fuel standard, any attempt by Congress to re-visit, repeal or grant waivers from the new renewable fuel standard could adversely affect demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While the Energy Policy Act of 2005, as amended by the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, imposes a renewable fuel standard, it does not mandate the use of ethanol and eliminates the oxygenate requirement for reformulated gasoline in the reformulated gasoline program included in the Clean Air Act. The reformulated gasoline program’s oxygenate requirements contained in the Clean Air Act, which accounted for approximately 1.95 billion gallons of ethanol use in 2004, was eliminated on May 5, 2006 by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. While the Renewable Fuels Association expects that ethanol should account for the largest share of renewable fuels produced and consumed under the renewable fuel standard, that standard is not limited to ethanol and also includes biodiesel and any other liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas. We cannot assure you that the elimination of the oxygenate requirement for reformulated gasoline in the reformulated gasoline program included in the Clean Air Act will not result in a decline in ethanol consumption, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 31 Some countries can import ethanol into the United States duty free, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the United States. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff and a 2.5% ad valorem tax that was designed to offset the $0.51 per gallon ethanol subsidy available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their fuel. A special exemption from the tariff for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean islands is limited to a total of 7.0% of United States production per year, with additional exemptions for ethanol produced from feedstock in the Caribbean region over the 7.0% limit. Although bills were introduced in both the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate in May 2006 to repeal the $0.54 per gallon tariff, the Omnibus Tax bill passed by Congress on December 8, 2006 and signed by President Bush included a provision to extend the secondary tariff offset for ethanol through January 1, 2009. If total U.S. production increases as many predict, the volume of ethanol that can be imported duty-free from the Caribbean region will increase proportionately. In addition, under the North America Free Trade Agreement, Canada and Mexico are exempt from this tariff. Imports from the exempted countries have increased in recent years and are expected to increase further as a result of new plants under development. Lax enforcement of environmental and energy policy regulations may adversely affect the demand for ethanol. Our success will depend, in part, on effective enforcement of existing environmental and energy policy regulations. Many of our potential customers are unlikely to switch from conventional fuels unless compliance with applicable regulatory requirements leads, directly or indirectly, to the use of ethanol. The entities affected by those requirements are likely to vigorously oppose both the additional regulation and the enforcement of those regulatory provisions. If existing emissions-reducing standards are weakened, or if governments are not active and effective in enforcing those standards, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Even if the current trend toward more stringent emissions standards continues, our future prospects will depend on the ability of ethanol to satisfy these emissions standards more efficiently than other alternative technologies. Certain standards imposed by regulatory programs may limit or preclude the use of our products to comply with environmental or energy requirements. Any decrease in the emission standards or the failure to enforce existing emission standards and other regulations could result in a reduced demand for ethanol. A significant decrease in the demand for ethanol will reduce the price of ethanol, adversely affect our financial performance and decrease the value of your stock. Costs of compliance with burdensome or changing environmental and operational safety regulations could divert our focus from our business and cause our results of operations to suffer. Ethanol production involves the emission of various airborne pollutants, including particulate matter, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, volatile organic compounds and sulfur dioxide. Our plants also will discharge water into the environment. As a result, we are subject to complicated environmental regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and regulations and permitting requirements of the State of Iowa. These regulations are subject to change, and those changes may require additional capital expenditures or increased operating costs. Consequently, considerable resources may be required to comply with existing or future environmental regulations. In addition, our ethanol plants could be subject to environmental nuisance or related claims by employees, property owners or residents near the ethanol plants arising from air or water discharges. Ethanol production can produce an unpleasant odor to which surrounding residents could object. Environmental and public nuisance claims, or tort claims based on emissions, or increased environmental compliance costs could significantly increase our operating costs. Our existing and proposed new ethanol plants will also be subject to federal and state laws regarding occupational safety. Risks of substantial compliance costs and liabilities are inherent in ethanol production. We may be subject to costs and liabilities related to worker safety and job related injuries, some of which may be significant. Possible future developments, including stricter safety laws for workers and other individuals, regulations and enforcement policies and claims for personal or property damages resulting from operation of the ethanol plants could reduce the amount of cash that would otherwise be available to further enhance our business. 32 We may be required to pay material amounts to address environmental issues at our Spring Hope facility. We are aware of soil, groundwater or surface contamination involving asbestos at our Spring Hope facility, a former medium density fiberboard plant we acquired from Carolina Fiberboard Corporation, LLC in November 2006. We are also aware that the facility has asbestos insulation surrounding existing boilers, potential Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) contamination of the soil and oil leakage in several areas of the plant from past operations. We have not yet completed our environmental assessment of the facility and cannot determine the extent of contamination or remedial actions required. There may be other contamination or environmental concerns of which we are currently unaware. Under the purchase agreement, Carolina Fiberboard is required to pay or reimburse us for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred for cleanup or other remedial actions performed at the Spring Hope facility as needed. Under the purchase agreement, $128,000 in cash and 1,000,000 shares of our common stock are held in escrow to cover these costs and expenses. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to recover all our costs and expenses from Carolina Fiberboard or at all, or that the escrowed funds will be sufficient to cover our costs and expenses. The potential environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our common stock price has fluctuated considerably, and stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased those shares. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control. For example, since our reverse merger in February 2005 and through March 14, 2008, the high and low bid or closing sale price for our common stock has been $15.19 and $0.30 per share, respectively. Factors that could affect the market price of our common stock include the following: · our inability to manufacture ethanol as efficiently as we expect due to factors related to costs and supply of corn, energy or water; · market factors affecting the demand for ethanol such as price, competition and general economic conditions; · discontinuation or limitations on state and federal ethanol subsidies; · negative public sentiment toward ethanol production and use; and · environmental restrictions increasing the costs and liabilities of ethanol production. The market prices of securities of fuel-related companies have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of these companies. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility might be intensified under circumstances where the trading volume of our common stock is low. We are unlikely to attract the attention of major brokerage firms for research and support, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts of major brokerage firms have not published research on our common stock. The number of securities competing for the attention of those analysts is large and growing. Moreover, because we went public through a “reverse merger,” some major brokerage firms may be reluctant to publish research on us regardless of our results of operations. Coverage of a security by analysts at major brokerage firms increases the investing public’s knowledge of and interest in the issuer, which may stimulate demand for and support the market price of the issuer’s securities. The failure of major brokerage firms to cover our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of common stock or other dilutive events may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 28,609,103 shares were issued and outstanding and an additional 10,278,764 were reserved for issuance as of March 1, 2008. Of the 33 shares of common stock we have reserved for issuance, 937,930 shares were reserved for issuance for options that have not yet been granted under our 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan. Our board of directors has the authority, without further action or vote of our stockholders, to issue any or all of the 61,076,821 authorized shares of our common stock that are not reserved for issuance and to grant options or other awards under our 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan. The board may issue shares or grant options or awards relating to shares at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current market price of our common stock. The options and warrants referred to above include provisions that require the issuance of increased numbers of shares of common stock on exercise or conversion in the event of stock splits, redemptions, mergers or other transactions. The occurrence of any such event, the exercise of any of the options or warrants described above and any other issuance of shares of common stock will dilute the percentage ownership interests of our current stockholders and may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. A significant number of our shares will be eligible for sale, and their sale could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. Up to 38,923,179 shares of our common stock may be offered from time to time in the open market, including the shares registered on the Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (No. 333-135121), which was originally declared effective on August 10, 2007, and shares reserved for issuance on the exercise of outstanding options and warrants. These sales may depress the market for the shares of our common stock. Moreover, additional shares of our common stock, including shares that have been issued in private placements, may be sold from time to time in the open market under Rule 144. Effective February 15, 2008, the SEC amended Rule 144 to shorten the holding period requirement for “restricted securities” of issuers that are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to six months and substantially reduce the restrictions applicable to the resale of securities by non-affiliates. Under the new Rule 144, in general, affiliates who have held restricted shares of a reporting issuer for a period of six months may, upon filing with the SEC a notification on Form 144, sell into the market common stock in an amount equal to the greater of 1% of the outstanding shares or the average weekly number of shares sold in the last four weeks before the sale. Those sales may be repeated at specified intervals. Subject to satisfaction of a six-month holding requirement, non-affiliates of an issuer may make sales under Rule 144, as amended, without regard to the volume limitations, and any of the restricted shares may be sold by a non-affiliate after they have been held one year. Sales of our common stock by our affiliates are subject to Rule 144. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, as a consequence of that failure, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we could be subject to regulatory action or other litigation and our operating results could be harmed. Beginning with our 2007 fiscal year, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires our management to annually assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with our 2009 fiscal year (assuming the one-year extension recently proposed by the SEC becomes effective), our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue an attestation report on our internal controls over financial reporting. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal accounting controls, as those standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to face regulatory action and also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, either of which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 34 Xethanol Corporation and some of our former officers and directors are defendants in litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We and some of our present and former officers and directors are defendants in two lawsuits that may result in substantial costs and require significant involvement of our management and may divert our management’s attention from our business and operations. In October 2006, a shareholder class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, purportedly brought on behalf of all purchasers of Xethanol common stock during the period January 31, 2006 through August 8, 2006. The complaint alleges, among other things, that we and some of our former officers and directors made materially false and misleading statements regarding our operations, management and internal controls in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5. The plaintiffs seek, among other things, unspecified compensatory damages and reasonable costs and expenses, including counsel fees and expert fees. Six nearly identical class actions complaints were thereafter filed in the same court, all of which have been consolidated into one action (the “Class Action”). The plaintiffs filed their amended consolidated complaint on March 23, 2007. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on April 23, 2007. On September 7, 2007, the District Court denied that motion. On November 28, 2007, the defendants, including Xethanol Corporation, reached on an agreement in principle with the plaintiffs’ lead counsel to settle the Class Action. The tentative settlement agreement, which was reached during a mediation overseen by a retired United States District Court Judge, calls for the payment of $2.8 million to the plaintiffs, of which we will pay $400,000 and our insurance carriers will pay $2.4 million. The agreement remains subject to final negotiated writings executed by the parties and approval by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Although we expect the District Court to approve the settlement agreement, we can give no assurance that the District Court will approve the settlement agreement as finalized by the parties or at all. In December 2007, Global Energy and Management, LLC filed an action in the federal court for the Southern District of New York against Xethanol and nine current or former officers, directors and employees. The individual defendants include David Ames, our Chief Executive Officer and a director; and Thomas J. Endres, our Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President, Operations. The lawsuit alleges fraud by the defendants in connection with Global Energy’s alleged investment of $250,000 in NewEnglandXethanol, LLC, a joint venture of Xethanol and Global Energy. On March 19, 2008, Global Energy served its second amended complaint on us. Based on an alleged investment of $250,000, Global Energy seeks more than $10,000,000 in damages plus pre-judgment interest and costs. Management has instructed counsel to vigorously represent and defend our interests in this litigation. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in this or other matters that may arise from time to time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur material legal and other expenses, and our management may be distracted. Investors should not anticipate receiving cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or distributions on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval that may adversely affect your rights as a holder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue a series of preferred stock with rights to receive dividends and distributions upon liquidation in preference to any dividends or distributions upon liquidation to holders of our common stock and with conversion, redemption, voting or other rights which could dilute the economic interest and voting rights of our common stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could also be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or making removal of our management more difficult, which may not be in your interest as holders of common stock. 35 Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could inhibit a takeover at a premium price. As noted above, our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as our board of directors may determine from time to time. Our bylaws limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Each of these provisions may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or making removal of our management more difficult, which may not be in your interest as holders of common stock. Delaware law also could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Specifically, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 36 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 