ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below may materially impact your investment in our company or may in the future, and, in some cases already do, materially affect us and our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should carefully consider these factors with respect to your investment in our securities. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements; you should read the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements beginning on pages 2 and 34 of this report. Our business has substantial indebtedness, which could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, require us to use a large portion of our cash flow from operations to 11 Table of Contents repay and service our debt or otherwise create liquidity problems, limit our flexibility to adjust to market conditions, place us at a competitive disadvantage and expose us to interest rate fluctuations. We currently have, and will likely continue to have, a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, in addition to other indebtedness, we had approximately $970.5 million in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under our senior secured credit facility, or the senior secured facility, $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under our junior secured credit facility, or the junior secured facility (collectively with the senior secured facility, the secured credit facilities), and $150.0 million in indebtedness under our outstanding 3% senior subordinated convertible notes, or the senior subordinated convertible notes. The term loan under the senior secured facility bears interest at a rate per annum of LIBOR plus 2.00%, while the revolving line of credit under the senior secured facility, which provides up to $150.0 million of borrowing availability, is expected to bear interest at a rate per annum of LIBOR plus between 1.75% and 2.25%, depending on our consolidated leverage ratio. The junior secured facility bears interest at a rate per annum of LIBOR plus 4.25%. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness is subject to restrictions under our secured credit facilities and the senior subordinated convertible notes. Our substantial indebtedness could affect our future operations in important ways. For example, it could: • make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the senior subordinated convertible notes, our secured credit facilities and our other debt-related instruments; • require us to use a large portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash available to finance our operations and service obligations, to delay or reduce capital expenditures or the introduction of new products and/or forego business opportunities, including acquisitions, research and development projects or product design enhancements; • limit our flexibility to adjust to market conditions, leaving us vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business and less able to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment with respect to our indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. We expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on the senior subordinated convertible notes, our secured credit facilities and our other debt from cash flow from our operations and from additional loans under our secured credit facilities, subject to continued covenant compliance, and potentially from other debt or equity offerings. Accordingly, our ability to meet our expenses depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and pressure from competitors. We cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If our cash flow and capital resources prove inadequate, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, restructure or refinance our debt, including the notes, seek additional equity capital or borrow more money. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on acceptable terms. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the credit agreements governing our secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior subordinated convertible notes, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. 12 Table of Contents We have entered into agreements governing our indebtedness that subject us to various restrictions that may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including the credit agreements governing our secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior subordinated convertible notes, subject us to various restrictions on our ability to engage in certain activities, including, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock; • acquire other businesses; • make investments; • make loans to or extend credit for the benefit of third parties or its subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • raise additional capital; • make capital or finance lease expenditures; • dispose of or encumber assets; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. Our secured credit facilities contain certain financial covenants that we may not satisfy which, if not satisfied, could result in the acceleration of the amounts due under these facilities and the limitation of our ability to borrow additional funds in the future. The agreements governing our secured credit facilities subject us to various financial and other covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. These include covenants pertaining to capital expenditures, interest coverage ratios, leverage ratios and minimum cash requirements. If we violate any of these covenants, we may suffer a material adverse effect. Most notably, our outstanding debt under our secured credit facilities could become immediately due and payable, our lenders could proceed against any collateral securing such indebtedness and our ability to borrow additional funds in the future may be limited. A default under any of the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in a default and acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including the credit agreements governing our secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior subordinated convertible notes, contain cross-default provisions whereby a default under one agreement could result in a default and acceleration of our repayment obligations under other agreements. If a cross-default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or acceptable terms. If some or all of our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to satisfy our debt obligations upon a fundamental change or change of control, which could limit our opportunity to enter into a fundamental change or change of control transaction. Upon the occurrence of a “fundamental change,” as defined in the indenture governing the senior subordinated convertible notes, each holder of our senior subordinated convertible notes will have the right to require us to purchase the notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, together with any accrued and unpaid interest. A fundamental change includes, among other things, the acquisition of more than 50% of our common stock by any person or group, the sale of all or substantially all of the our assets or a 13 Table of Contents recapitalization or similar transaction involving us. Our failure to purchase, or give notice of purchase of, the senior subordinated convertible notes would be a default under the indenture, which would in turn be a default under our secured credit facilities. In addition, the occurrence of a “change of control,” as defined in the credit agreements governing our secured credit facilities, will constitute an event of default under the secured credit facilities. A default under our secured credit facilities would result in an event of default under our senior subordinated convertible notes and, if the lenders accelerate the debt under our secured credit facilities and/or under the indenture governing the senior subordinated convertible notes, this may result in the acceleration of our other indebtedness outstanding at the time. As a result, if we do not have enough cash to repay all of our indebtedness or to repurchase all of the senior subordinated convertible notes, we may be limited in the fundamental change or change of control transactions that we may pursue. Our acquisitions may not be profitable, and the integration of these businesses may be costly and difficult and may cause disruption to our business. Since commencing activities in November 2001, we have acquired and integrated, or are in the process of integrating, into our operations Unipath Limited and its associated companies and assets, or the Unipath business, IVC Industries, Inc. (now doing business as Inverness Medical Nutritionals Group, or IMN); the Wampole Division of MedPointe Inc., or Wampole; Ostex International, Inc., or Ostex; Applied Biotech, Inc., or ABI; the rapid diagnostics business that we acquired from Abbott Laboratories, or the Abbott rapid diagnostics business; Ischemia, Inc., or Ischemia; Binax, Inc., or Binax; the Determine/DainaScreen business that we acquired from Abbott Laboratories in 2005, or the Determine business; Thermo BioStar Inc. (subsequently renamed BioStar, Inc., or BioStar); the rapid diagnostics business that we acquired from ACON Laboratories, Inc., or the Innovacon business; Instant Technologies, Inc., or Instant; Biosite; Cholestech; HemoSense; Alere; Redwood; ParadigmHealth; and our 2008 acquisitions of Panbio Ltd., or Panbio, and BBI Holdings Plc, or BBI. We have also made a number of smaller acquisitions. The ultimate success of all of these acquisitions, as well as the proposed acquisition of Matria, depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating these businesses or assets into our existing businesses. However, the successful integration of independent businesses or assets is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of integrating companies and acquired assets include among others: • consolidating manufacturing and research and development operations, where appropriate; • integrating newly acquired businesses or product lines into a uniform financial reporting system; • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions and strategies, including the integration of our current health management products and services with those of Matria; • establishing or expanding manufacturing, sales, distribution and marketing functions in order to accommodate newly acquired businesses or product lines or rationalizing these functions to take advantage of synergies; • preserving the important licensing, research and development, manufacturing and supply, distribution, marketing, customer and other relationships; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. We may not accomplish the integration of our acquisitions smoothly or successfully. The diversion of the attention of our management from current operations to integration efforts and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from these acquisitions and adversely affect our other businesses. Additionally, the costs associated with the integration of our acquisitions can be substantial. To the extent that we incur integration costs that are not anticipated when we finance our acquisitions, these unexpected costs could adversely impact our liquidity or force us to borrow additional funds. Ultimately, the value of any business or asset that we have acquired may not be greater than or equal to the purchase price of that business or asset. 14 Table of Contents If we choose to acquire or invest in new and complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than developing them internally, such acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business and, depending on how we finance these acquisitions or investments, could result in the use of significant amounts of cash. Our success depends in part on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. Accordingly, from time to time we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them internally. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: • the inability to complete the acquisition or investment; • disruption of our ongoing businesses and diversion of management attention; • difficulties in integrating the acquired entities, products or technologies; • difficulties in operating the acquired business profitably; • difficulties in transitioning key customer, distributor and supplier relationships; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • unanticipated costs. In addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in: • issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; • use of significant amounts of cash; • the incurrence of debt; • the assumption of significant liabilities; • unfavorable financing terms; • large one-time expenses; and • the creation of intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant charges to earnings. Our joint venture transaction with P&G may not realize all of its intended benefits. On May 17, 2007, we completed our 50/50 joint venture transaction with P&G, creating SPD and transferring to SPD substantially all of the assets of our consumer diagnostic business, other than our manufacturing and core intellectual property assets, in exchange for $325.0 million in cash. In connection with the establishment of the SPD joint venture, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating the our corporate culture and business objectives with that of P&G into the joint venture; • difficulties or delays in transitioning clinical studies; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • higher than anticipated costs of integration at the joint venture; • difficulties in retaining key employees who are necessary to manage the joint venture; or • difficulties in working with an entity based in Switzerland and thus remote or inconvenient to our Waltham, Massachusetts headquarters. For any of these reasons, or as a result of other factors, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the joint venture and cash flow or profits derived from our ownership interest in SPD may be less than the cash flow or profits that could have been derived had we retained the transferred assets and continued to operate 15 Table of Contents the consumer diagnostic business ourselves. P&G retains an option to require us to purchase P&G’s interest in SPD at fair market value during the 60-day period beginning on the fourth anniversary of the closing. Moreover, certain subsidiaries of P&G have the right, at any time upon certain material breaches by us or our subsidiaries of our obligations under the joint venture documents, to acquire all of our interest in the joint venture at fair market value less damages. If goodwill and/or other intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions of other businesses become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for our acquisitions, including the proposed acquisition of Matria, we have recorded, or will record, a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings which could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations in future periods. We may experience manufacturing problems or delays, which could result in decreased revenue or increased costs. Many of our manufacturing processes are complex and require specialized and expensive equipment. Replacement parts for our specialized equipment can be expensive and, in some cases, can require lead times of up to a year to acquire. In addition, our private label consumer diagnostic products business, and our private label and bulk nutritional supplements business in particular, rely on operational efficiency to mass produce products at low margins per unit. We also rely on numerous third parties to supply production materials and in some cases there may not be alternative sources immediately available. In addition, during 2006, we closed two manufacturing facilities and we are shifting the production of products from these facilities to China. We have previously shifted the production of other products to our manufacturing facilities in China. Moving the production of products is difficult and involves significant risk. Problems establishing relationships with local materials suppliers; acquiring or adapting the new facility and its equipment to the production of new products; hiring, training and retaining personnel; and establishing and maintaining compliance with governmental regulations and industry standards can cause delays and inefficiencies which could have a material negative impact on our financial performance. We also currently rely on a number of significant third-party manufacturers to produce certain of our professional diagnostic products. Any event which negatively impacts our manufacturing facilities, our manufacturing systems or equipment, or our contract manufacturers or suppliers, including, among others, wars, terrorist activities, natural disasters and outbreaks of infectious disease, could delay or suspend shipments of products or the release of new products or could result in the delivery of inferior products. Our revenues from the affected products would decline or we could incur losses until such time as it is able to restore its production processes or put in place alternative contract manufacturers or suppliers. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. We may experience difficulties that may delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new or enhanced products. We intend to continue to invest in product and technology development. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process. We may experience research and development, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or enhancements. We cannot be certain that: • any of the products under development will prove to be effective in clinical trials; • we will be able to obtain, in a timely manner or at all, regulatory approval to market any of our products that are in development or contemplated; 16 Table of Contents • the products we develop can be manufactured at acceptable cost and with appropriate quality; or • these products, if and when approved, can be successfully marketed. The factors listed above, as well as manufacturing or distribution problems, or other factors beyond our control, could delay new product launches. In addition, we cannot assure you that the market will accept these products. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our overall revenue will increase if and when new products are launched. If the results of clinical studies required to gain regulatory approval to sell our products are not available when expected or do not demonstrate the anticipated utility of those potential products, we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected. Before we can sell our products, we must conduct clinical studies intended to demonstrate that our potential products perform as expected. The results of these clinical studies are used as the basis to obtain regulatory approval from government authorities such as the FDA. Clinical studies are experiments conducted using potential products and human patients having the diseases or medical conditions that the product is trying to evaluate or diagnose. Conducting clinical studies is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. In some cases, we may spend as much as several years completing certain studies. If we fail to adequately manage our clinical studies, our clinical studies and corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our potential product candidates altogether. Even if we successfully manage our clinical studies, we may not obtain favorable results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval. If we are unable to market and sell our new products or are unable to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain required clearances or approvals for the commercialization of our products in the United States, we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected. Our future performance depends on, among other matters, our estimates as to when and at what cost we will receive regulatory approval for new products. Regulatory approval can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, making the timing, cost and ability to obtain approvals difficult to predict. In the United States, clearance or approval to commercially distribute new medical devices is received from the FDA through clearance of a Premarket Notification, or 510(k), or through approval of a Premarket Approval, or PMA. To receive 510(k) clearance, a new product must be substantially equivalent to a medical device first marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 1976. The FDA may determine that a new product is not substantially equivalent to a device first marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 1976 or that additional information is needed before a substantial equivalence determination can be made. A “not substantially equivalent” determination, or a request for additional information, could prevent or delay the market introduction of new products that fall into this category. The 510(k) clearance and PMA review processes can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy. It generally takes from three to five months from submission to obtain 510(k) clearance, and from six to eighteen months from submission to obtain a PMA approval; however, it may take longer, and 510(k) clearance or PMA approval may never be obtained. Modifications or enhancements that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, require new 510(k) or PMA submissions. We have made modifications to some of our products since receipt of initial 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. With respect to several of these modifications, we filed new 510(k)s describing the modifications and received FDA 510(k) clearance. We have made other modifications to some of our products that we believe do not require the submission of new 510(k)s or PMA. The FDA may not agree with any of our determinations not to submit a new 510(k) or PMA for any of these modifications made to our products. If the FDA requires us to submit a new 510(k) or PMA for any device modification, we may be prohibited from marketing the modified products until the new submission is cleared by the FDA. 17 Table of Contents We are also subject to applicable regulatory approval requirements of the foreign countries in which we sell products, which are costly and may prevent or delay us from marketing our products in those countries. In addition to regulatory requirements in the United States, we are subject to the regulatory approval requirements for each foreign country to which we export our products. In the European Union, regulatory compliance requires affixing the “CE” mark to product labeling. Although our products are currently eligible for CE marking through self-certification, this process can be lengthy and expensive. In Canada, as another example, our products require approval by Health Canada prior to commercialization along with International Standards Organization, or ISO, 13485/CMDCAS certification. It generally takes from three to six months from submission to obtain a Canadian Device License. Any changes in foreign approval requirements and processes may cause us to incur additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. We may not be able to obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, and any failure to do so may cause us to incur additional costs or prevent us from marketing our products in foreign countries, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with ongoing regulation applicable to our businesses may result in significant costs or, in certain circumstances, the suspension or withdrawal of previously obtained clearances or approvals. Our businesses are extensively regulated by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign regulatory agencies. These regulations impact many aspects of our operations, including manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping. For example, our manufacturing facilities and those of our suppliers and distributors are, or can be, subject to periodic regulatory inspections. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products or place conditions on any product approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of those products. In addition, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. We are also subject to routine inspection by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with Quality System Requirement and Medical Device Reporting requirements in the United States and other applicable regulations worldwide, including but not limited to ISO regulations. Our health management business is subject to unique licensing or permit requirements. For example, we may be required to obtain certification to participate in governmental payment programs, such as state Medicaid programs, and some states have established Certificate of Need programs regulating the expansion of healthcare operations. In addition, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as patient privacy, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. We may incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products or injunctions against our distribution, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Regulatory agencies may also impose new or enhanced standards that would increase our costs as well as the risks associated with non-compliance. For example, we anticipate that the FDA may soon finalize and implement GMP standards for nutritional supplements. GMP standards would require supplements to be prepared, packaged and held in compliance with certain rules, and might require quality control provisions similar to those in the GMP standards for drugs. While our manufacturing facilities for nutritional supplements have been subjected to, and passed, third-party inspections against anticipated GMP standards, the ongoing compliance required in the event that GMP standards are adopted would involve additional costs and would present new risks associated with any failure to comply with the regulations in the future. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility may be harmed, market acceptance of our products may decrease and we may be exposed to liability in excess of our product liability insurance coverage. The manufacturing and marketing of professional and consumer diagnostic products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims. In addition, our product development and production are extremely complex and could expose our products to defects. Any defects could harm our credibility and decrease market 18 Table of Contents acceptance of our products. In addition, our marketing of monitoring services and vitamins and nutritional supplements may cause us to be subjected to various product liability claims, including, among others, claims that inaccurate monitoring results lead to injury or death or that the vitamins and nutritional supplements have inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. In the event that we are held liable for a claim for which we are not indemnified, or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, that claim could materially damage our business and financial condition. The effect of market saturation may negatively affect the sales of our products, including our Biosite Triage BNP tests. Sales growth in our recently acquired Biosite business has been driven in recent years by growth in the sales volumes of the Biosite Triage BNP tests. The meter-based Triage BNP test, launched domestically in January 2001, was the first blood test available to aid in the detection of heart failure and benefited from a first to market position until the entry of direct competition in June 2003. As the acute care and initial diagnosis market segment for natriuretic testing in the U.S. hospital setting becomes saturated, we expect the growth rates of sales unit volume for our Biosite Triage BNP tests in 2007 and future periods to be lower than the growth rates experienced by Biosite over the past several years. Unless we are able to successfully introduce new products into the market and achieve market acceptance of those products in a timely manner, the effect of market saturation on our existing products may negatively impact product sales, gross margins and financial results. In addition, as the market for BNP testing matures and more competitive products become available, the average sales price for the Biosite Triage BNP tests is likely to decline, which will adversely impact our product sales, gross margins and our overall financial results. The health management business is a relatively new component of the overall healthcare industry. The health management services provided by our subsidiaries, namely Alere, ParadigmHealth and QAS, are relatively new components of the overall healthcare industry. Accordingly, our health management customers have not had significant experience in purchasing, evaluating or monitoring such services, which can result in a lengthy sales cycle. The success of our health management business depends on a number of factors. These factors include: • our ability to differentiate our health management services from those of our competitors; • the extent and timing of the acceptance of our services as a replacement for, or supplement to, traditional managed care offerings; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • our ability to sell and implement new and additional services beneficial to health plans and employers; • our ability to achieve, measure and effectively communicate cost savings for health plans and employers through the use of our services; and • our ability to retain health plan and employee accounts as competition increases. Since the health management business is continually evolving, we may not be able to anticipate and adapt to the developing market. Moreover, we cannot predict with certainty the future growth rate or the ultimate size of the market. Our health management business may be adversely affected by cost reduction pressures among health care providers. Healthcare providers continue to face cost reduction pressures that may cause them to curtail their use of, or reimbursement for, health management services to negotiate reduced fees or other concessions or to delay payment. These financial pressures could have an adverse impact on our business. 19 Table of Contents A portion of our health management fees are contingent upon performance. Some of our existing health management agreements contain savings or other guarantees, which provide that our revenues, or a portion of them, are contingent upon projected cost savings or other quality performance measures related to our health management programs. There is no guarantee that we will accurately forecast cost savings and clinical outcome improvements under our health management agreements or meet the performance criteria necessary to recognize potential revenues under the agreements. Additionally, untimely, incomplete or inaccurate data from our customers, or flawed analysis of such data, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to recognize revenues. If our costs of providing health management services increase, we may not be able to pass these cost increases on to our customers. Many of our health management services are provided pursuant to long-term contracts that we may not be able to re-negotiate. If our costs increase, we may not be able to increase our prices, which would adversely affect results of operations. Accordingly, any increase in our costs could reduce our overall profit margin. Our data management and information technology systems are critical to maintaining and growing our business. Our businesses, and in particular our health management business, are dependent on the effective use of information technology and consequently, technology failure or obsolescence may negatively impact our businesses. In addition, data acquisition, data quality control, data security, and data analysis, which are a cornerstone of our health management programs, are intense and complex processes subject to error. Untimely, incomplete or inaccurate data, flawed analysis of such data or our inability to properly integrate, implement and update systems could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our sales of branded nutritional supplements have been trending downward since 1998 due to the maturity of the market segments they serve and the age of that product line, and we may experience further declines in sales of those products. Our aggregate sales of all of our brand name nutritional products, including, among others, Ferro-Sequels, Stresstabs, Protegra, Posture, SoyCare, ALLBEE and Z-BEC, have declined each year since 1998 through the year 2007, except in 2002 when they increased slightly as compared to 2001. We believe that these products have under-performed because they are, for the most part, aging brands with limited brand recognition that face increasing private label competition. The overall age of this product line means that we are subject to future distribution loss for under-performing brands, while its opportunities for new distribution on the existing product lines are limited. As a result, we do not expect significant sales growth of our existing brand name nutritional products, and we may experience further declines in overall sales of our brand name nutritional products in the future. Our sales of specific vitamins and nutritional supplements could be negatively affected by media attention or other news developments that challenge the safety and effectiveness of those specific vitamins and nutritional supplements. Most growth in the vitamin and nutritional supplement industry is attributed to new products that tend to generate greater attention in the marketplace than do older products. Positive media attention resulting from new scientific studies or announcements can spur rapid growth in individual segments of the market, and also affect individual brands. Conversely, news that challenges individual segments or products can have a negative impact on the industry overall, as well as on sales of the challenged segments or products. Most of our vitamin and nutritional supplements products serve well-established market segments and, absent unforeseen new developments or trends, are not expected to benefit from rapid growth. A few of our vitamin and nutritional products are newer products that are more likely to be the subject of new scientific studies or announcements, which could be either positive or negative. News or other developments that challenge the 20 Table of Contents safety or effectiveness of these products could negatively affect the profitability of our vitamin and nutritional supplements business. Because sales of our private label nutritional supplements are generally made at low margins, the profitability of these products may suffer significantly as a result of relatively small increases in raw material or other manufacturing costs. Sales of our private label nutritional supplements, which for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 provided approximately 8% and 13%, respectively, of our net product sales, generate low profit margins. We rely on our ability to efficiently mass produce nutritional supplements in order to make meaningful profits from these products. Changes in raw material or other manufacturing costs can drastically cut into or eliminate the profits generated from the sale of a particular product. For the most part, we do not have long-term supply contracts for our required raw materials and, as a result, our costs can increase with little notice. The private label nutritional supplements business is also highly competitive, such that our ability to raise prices as a result of increased costs is limited. Customers generally purchase private label products via purchase order, not through long-term contracts, and they often purchase these products from the lowest bidder on a product by product basis. The internet has enhanced price competition among private label manufacturers through the advent of on-line auctions, where customers will auction off the right to manufacture a particular product to the lowest bidder. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks. We generate a significant percentage of our net revenue from outside the United States and a significant number of our employees, including manufacturing, sales, support and research and development personnel, are located in foreign countries, including England, Scotland, Japan, China, Australia, Germany and Israel. Conducting business outside the United States subjects us to numerous risks, including: • increased costs or reduced revenue as a result of movements in foreign currency exchange rates; • decreased liquidity resulting from longer accounts receivable collection cycles typical of foreign countries; • lower productivity resulting from difficulties managing sales, support and research and development operations across many countries; • lost revenues resulting from difficulties associated with enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • lost revenues resulting from the imposition by foreign governments of trade protection measures; • higher cost of sales resulting from import or export licensing requirements; • lost revenues or other adverse affects as a result of economic or political instability in or affecting foreign countries in which we sell our products or operate; and • adverse effects resulting from changes in foreign regulatory or other laws affecting the sales of our products or our foreign operations. Because our business relies heavily on foreign operations and revenues, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and our need to convert currencies may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business relies heavily on our foreign operations. Four of our largest manufacturing operations are conducted outside the United States in Hangzhou and Shanghai, China; Matsudo, Japan; and Bedford, England. We also have significant research and development operations in Stirling, Scotland and Jena, Germany. In addition, the Abbott rapid diagnostics business generates a majority of its sales outside the United States, and all of the revenues of the Determine business are derived outside of the United States. Because of 21 Table of Contents our foreign operations and foreign sales, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary exposures are related to the operations of our European subsidiaries and our manufacturing facilities in China and Japan. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could result in increased costs or reduced revenue and could affect our actual cash flow. Intense competition could reduce our market share or limit our ability to increase market share, which could impair the sales of our products and harm our financial performance. The medical products industry is rapidly evolving, and developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Competition in this industry, which includes both our professional diagnostic and consumer diagnostic businesses, is intense and expected to increase as new products and technologies become available and new competitors enter the market. Our competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include, among others, diagnostic testing and medical products companies, universities and other research institutions. Our future success depends upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in our areas of focus. Our competitors may: • develop technologies and products that are more effective than our products or that render our technologies or products obsolete or noncompetitive; • obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would prevent us from developing potential products; or • obtain regulatory approval for the commercialization of our products more rapidly or effectively than we do. Also, the possibility of patent disputes with competitors holding foreign patent rights may limit or delay expansion possibilities for our diagnostic businesses in certain foreign jurisdictions. In addition, many of our existing or potential competitors have or may have substantially greater research and development capabilities, clinical, manufacturing, regulatory and marketing experience and financial and managerial resources. The market for the sale of vitamins and nutritional supplements is also highly competitive. This competition is based principally upon price, quality of products, customer service and marketing support. There are numerous companies in the vitamins and nutritional supplements industry selling products to retailers such as mass merchandisers, drug store chains, independent drug stores, supermarkets, groceries and health food stores. As most of these companies are privately-held, we are unable to obtain the information necessary to assess precisely the size and success of these competitors. However, we believe that a number of our competitors, particularly manufacturers of nationally advertised brand name products, are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial resources. We could suffer monetary damages, incur substantial costs or be prevented from using technologies important to our products as a result of a number of pending legal proceedings. We are involved in various legal proceedings arising out of our businesses. Because of the nature of our business, we may be subject at any particular time to commercial disputes, consumer product claims, negligence or various other lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of our business, including employment matters, and we expect that this will continue to be the case in the future. Such lawsuits generally seek damages, sometimes in substantial amounts, for commercial or personal injuries allegedly suffered and can include claims for punitive or other special damages. An adverse ruling or rulings in one or more such lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our sales, operations or financial performance. In addition, we aggressively defend our patent and other intellectual property rights. This often involves bringing infringement or other commercial claims against third parties. These suits can be expensive and result in counterclaims challenging the validity of our patents and other rights. We cannot assure you that these lawsuits or any future lawsuits relating to our businesses will not have a material adverse effect on us. 22 Table of Contents The rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and would reduce our ability to compete in the market. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable patent rights and to protect our intellectual property. Our patent position is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. The degree of present and future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: • the pending patent applications we have filed or to which we have exclusive rights may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; • the claims of any patents which are issued may not provide meaningful protection; • we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; • the patents licensed or issued to us or our customers may not provide a competitive advantage; • other parties may challenge patents or patent applications licensed or issued to us or our customers; • patents issued to other companies may harm our ability to do business; and • other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. If these measures do not protect our rights, third parties could use our technology and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection or prosecute potential infringements of our patents. Our trade secrets may also become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors or customers may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. Claims by others that our products infringe on their proprietary rights could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services and could increase our costs. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in both the professional and consumer diagnostic industries. We expect that our products and services could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlaps. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents which our products and services or technology may infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. Any litigation could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. In addition, litigation in which we are accused of infringement may cause negative publicity, have an impact on prospective customers, cause product shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties, or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenue may decrease and we could be exposed to legal actions by our customers. 23 Table of Contents We have initiated, and may need to further initiate, lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patents to protect a portion of our intellectual property and our competitive position. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Litigation may be necessary to: • assert claims of infringement; • enforce our patents; • protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Currently, we have initiated a number of lawsuits against competitors whom we believe to be selling products that infringe our proprietary rights. These current lawsuits and any other lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and, consequently, patent positions in our industry are generally uncertain. We may not prevail in any of these suits and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. During the course of these suits, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive any of these results to be negative, our stock price could decline. In December 2005, we learned that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation in connection with the previously disclosed revenue recognition matter at one of our diagnostic divisions. We cannot predict what the outcome of this investigation will be. In December 2005, we learned that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation in connection with the previously disclosed revenue recognition matter at one of our diagnostic divisions, and we subsequently received a subpoena for documents. We believe that we have fully responded to the subpoena and have continued to fully cooperate with the SEC’s investigation. We cannot predict what the outcome of its investigation will be. In March 2006, the FTC opened a preliminary, non-public investigation into our acquisition of the Innovacon business to determine whether this acquisition may be anticompetitive. We cannot predict what the outcome of this investigation will be. In March 2006, the FTC opened a preliminary, non-public investigation into our then-pending acquisition of the Innovacon business we acquired from ACON Laboratories to determine whether this acquisition may be anticompetitive, and we subsequently received a Civil Investigative Demand and a subpoena requesting documents. We believe that we have fully responded to the Civil Investigative Demand, and we are continuing cooperate with the FTC’s investigation. We cannot predict whether the FTC will seek additional information or what the outcome of this investigation will be. The FTC generally has the power to commence administrative or federal court proceedings seeking injunctive relief or divestiture of assets. In the event that an order were to be issued requiring divestiture of significant assets or imposing other injunctive relief, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Non-competition obligations and other restrictions will limit our ability to take full advantage of our management team, the technology we own or license and our research and development capabilities. Members of our management team have had significant experience in the diabetes field. In addition, technology we own or license may have potential applications to this field and our research and development 24 Table of Contents capabilities could be applied to this field. However, in conjunction with our split-off from Inverness Medical Technology, Inc., or IMT, we agreed not to compete with IMT and Johnson & Johnson in the field of diabetes through 2011. In addition, our license agreement with IMT prevents us from using any of the licensed technology in the field of diabetes. As a result of these restrictions, we are limited in our ability to pursue opportunities in the field of diabetes at this time. Our operating results may fluctuate due to various factors and as a result period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful. Factors relating to our business make our future operating results uncertain and may cause them to fluctuate from period to period. Such factors include: • the timing of new product announcements and introductions by us and our competitors; • market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of our products; • the extent to which our current and future products rely on rights belonging to third parties; • changes in manufacturing costs or other expenses; • competitive pricing pressures; • changes in healthcare reimbursement policies and amounts; • regulatory changes; • the gain or loss of significant distribution outlets or customers; • increased research and development expenses; • length of sales cycle and implementation process for new health management customers; • the timing of any future acquisitions; • general economic conditions; or • general stock market conditions or other economic or external factors. Because our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, it may be difficult for us or our investors to predict future performance by viewing historical operating results. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful due to our acquisitions. We have engaged in a number of acquisitions in recent years, which makes it difficult to analyze our results and to compare them from period to period. Significant acquisitions include our acquisitions of IMN in March 2002, Wampole in September 2002, Ostex in June 2003, ABI in August 2003, the Abbott rapid diagnostics business in September 2003, Binax and Ischemia in March 2005, the Determine business in June 2005, BioStar in September 2005, the Innovacon business in March 2006, Instant in March 2007, Biosite in June 2007 and Cholestech in September 2007. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful due to these acquisitions and are not indications of our future performance. Any future acquisitions, including the pending acquisition of Matria, will also make our results difficult to compare from period to period in the future. Future sales of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our senior subordinated convertible notes may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our $150.0 million principal amount of senior subordinated convertible notes is initially convertible into our common stock at a conversion price of approximately $52.30 per share, or approximately 2,868,120 shares. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities 25 Table of Contents would have on the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of our common stock by holders of our senior subordinated convertible notes and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our common stock. The conversion rate of our senior subordinated convertible notes may be adjusted based upon the daily volume weighted average price per share of our common stock for the thirty consecutive trading days ending on May 9, 2008, and any such adjustment will be dilutive to the holders of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The conversion rate applicable to our senior subordinated convertible notes will be increased if the daily volume weighted average price per share of our common stock for the thirty consecutive trading days ending on May 9, 2008 is less than $40.23 (adjusted for any stock splits, stock dividends, recapitalizations or other similar events). In that event, the conversion rate will be adjusted to be the greater of 130% of such average or $40.23 (in each case adjusted for any stock splits, stock dividends, recapitalizations or other similar events), but no such adjustment will decrease the then-applicable conversion rate. Any such adjustment will result in additional shares of our common stock becoming issuable upon conversion of our senior subordinated convertible notes and therefore will be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The holders of the Series B Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock that we may issue in connection with the Matria acquisition shall be entitled to receive liquidation payments in preference to the holders of our common stock. In connection with the proposed Matria acquisition, we may issue to the Matria stockholders shares of a newly-created Series B Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, or Series B Preferred Stock, having an initial aggregate stated liquidation preference of approximately $790.0 million. Dividends shall accrue on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at a rate of 3% per annum. Upon a liquidation of our company, the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive a liquidation payment prior to the payment of any amount with respect to the shares of our common stock. The amount of this preferential liquidation payment is the aggregate stated liquidation preference, plus any accrued but unpaid dividends. Because of the substantial liquidation preference to which the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled, the amount available to be distributed to the holders of our common stock upon a liquidation of our company could be substantially limited or reduced to zero. The terms of the Series B Preferred Stock, if issued, may limit our ability to raise additional capital through subsequent issuances of preferred stock. For so long as any shares of Series B Preferred Stock that we may issue in connection with the proposed Matria acquisition remain outstanding, we would not be permitted, without the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least 50% of the Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding, to authorize or designate any class or series of capital stock having rights on liquidation or as to distributions (including dividends) senior to the Series B Preferred Stock. This restriction could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Future sales of our common stock issuable upon conversion the proposed Series B Preferred Stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Series B Preferred Stock that we may issue in connection with the proposed Matria acquisition would be convertible into common stock in certain circumstances. If the conditions to conversion were satisfied, then subject to adjustment, each of the approximately 1.97 million shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be issued could convert into 5.7703 shares of our common stock, or approximately 11.4 million shares of our common stock. Upon certain extraordinary transactions, depending on the market price of our common stock at that time, the conversion rate could increase such that significantly more shares of common stock could be issued. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of 26 Table of Contents additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may limit the ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, which may not be in your best interests. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include the following: • our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring each year, commonly referred to as a staggered board. By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire; • our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control; • our certificate of incorporation prohibits our stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings or taking action by written consent; • our certificate of incorporation provides for the removal of a director only with cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% or more of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors; and • our bylaws require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. Finally, the board of directors may in the future adopt other protective measures, such as a stockholder rights plan, which could delay, deter or prevent a change of control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 