Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO OUR LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a going concern opinion and, if we cannot obtain additional financing in the near term, we may have to curtail or cease operations and may ultimately cease to exist. We require additional equity capital in the near term to maintain our current operations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a going concern opinion indicating that there is substantial doubt that we can continue as a going concern. We are currently seeking additional equity or convertible debt financing that would allow us to continue to operate as a going concern. In addition, any issuance of additional equity or convertible debt must be approved by the holders of our series B and series B-2 preferred stock, as well as certain of our creditors. There is no assurance that such equity capital or convertible debt will be available and, to the extent it is available, it is very likely that our currently outstanding common and preferred stock will be severely diluted in connection with an equity financing. To the extent adequate equity, convertible debt or other financing is not available, we would have to curtail or cease completely our operations and may ultimately cease to exist. If we cannot raise additional equity capital in the near term, we will have to file for bankruptcy protection; holders of our common and preferred stock may be severely diluted or their equity eliminated entirely in connection with a bankruptcy filing. As of September 12, 2008, we estimate that we had current payables of approximately $10.3 million and we only had approximately $6.9 million of unrestricted cash available. In addition, as of June 30, 2008 we had negative stockholders’ equity of $5.5 million. We have negotiated informal payment plans with nearly all of our major vendors with respect to existing payables in order to allow us more time to raise the equity capital that we need. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional equity financing, however, we will likely have to file for bankruptcy protection. Additionally, despite the payment plans we have arranged with vendors, it is possible that our creditors could choose to initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us or against one or more of our subsidiaries, which would force us to make defensive voluntary filing(s) of our own. In addition, if we restructure our debt or file for bankruptcy protection, it is very likely that holders of our common and/or preferred stock will be severely diluted if not eliminated entirely. We were not in compliance with certain originally negotiated covenants under our Senior Secured Notes in relation to our outstanding payables balance. We have received a waiver of these events of default from the holders of the Senior Secured Notes that will expire on October 17, 2008. Barring an additional waiver, if we cannot raise additional capital, an event of default will occur and the holders of the Senior Secured Notes will be able to accelerate the debt. On September 12, 2008, the Company and the holders of the Senior Secured Notes entered into an amendment to waive until October 17, 2008 the covenants with respect to indebtedness as it relates to payables, of which we would have been in violation absent such waiver. The covenant has been amended to require payables not to exceed $11 million on or prior to October 17, 2008 and $5 million after October 17, 2008. A new covenant has also been added which will require us to maintain a minimum unrestricted cash balance of $4.35 million. Additionally, we agreed to repay the Senior Secured Notes in full upon the event that we receive $30 million or more in gross -19- Table of Contents proceeds from the sale of equity or debt securities. In consideration for the waiver and amendment, we paid the holders of the Senior Secured Notes an amendment fee of $1.5 million and prepaid $0.36 million of interest on the Senior Secured Notes and the $0.26 million facility fee that would have been due on October 20. Unless we are able to raise additional equity capital, it will not be possible to be in compliance with the amended covenants after October 17, 2008, as the amount of cash needed to reduce payables if paid out would cause us to violate the minimum unrestricted cash covenant. In this event, unless we were able to secure an additional waiver and amendment from the holders of the Senior Secured Notes, an event of default will occur with respect to the Senior Secured Notes, and if the holders of the Senior Secured Notes chose to accelerate their debt we would need to file for bankruptcy. In addition, acceleration of amounts due under the Senior Secured Notes would result in cross defaults under approximately $18.4 million aggregate principal amount of bridge notes as of September 8, 2008, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and such amount would be due and payable by us, unless we obtained waivers from the holders of the bridge notes. -20- Table of Contents We are not in compliance with certain originally negotiated covenants under the DZ Bank loan facility in relation to our tangible net worth and our liquidity ratio. We have informally agreed to a waiver of these events of default from the lender that will expire on October 31, 2008. Barring an additional waiver, if we cannot raise additional equity capital prior to the expiry of the waiver, we will be required to pay an increased interest rate on this debt, and the lender may accelerate all amounts due under this loan, which would trigger cross defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. As of September 8, 2008, approximately $98 million of MRU’s private student loans are financed through a loan facility under which its affiliate, Education Empowerment SPV, LLC is the borrower. As of September 8, 2008, there was approximately $95 million in principal, interest and fees owed under the loan facility with respect to the private student loans financed. Under the terms of the loan facility, an event of default occurs if MRU does not: (i) maintain a Tangible Net Worth (as defined in the loan facility) of at least $5,000,000 or (ii) maintain a Liquidity Ratio (as defined in the loan facility) of at least 1.50. As of June 30, 2008, the MRU had Tangible Net Worth of $(13.4) million and a liquidity ratio of 1.24. On September 15, 2008, we informally agreed to enter into an amendment of this facility and a waiver of the covenants above until October 31, 2008. If after the expiry of the waiver additional equity capital has not been raised to cure noncompliance and an event of default results, the lender may, among other things, accelerate all amounts due under the loan facility, and we would be required to pay an increased interest rate equal to the arithmetic average of the rates of interest publicly announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank and Citibank, N.A. plus 3%. As of September 5, 2008, the default rate was 8%. In addition, if the lender accelerates the amounts due under the loan facility and such amounts are not immediately paid, the lender is entitled to sell the assets pledged to the lender under the loan facility in an effort to obtain amounts owed to it. Because the facility is non-recourse to MRU, if the lender foreclosed and sold the assets, we would not be required to pay any increased costs associated with a default rate of interest or any potential deficiency balance associated with a sale of the assets in the event that the cash flow of the financed private student loans was not sufficient to satisfy the obligation in full, but we would no longer have access to this source of funding. If the lender accelerates the amounts due under the loan facility, MRU would also experience cross defaults under approximately $18.4 million aggregate principal amount of bridge notes as of September 15, 2008, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and such amount would become due and payable by MRU, unless we obtain waivers from the holders of the bridge notes. If we do not obtain equity or convertible debt financing, we may not be able to pay off our loan facility with Merrill Lynch Bank USA when it comes due on November 25, 2008, which would require us to pay an increased interest rate on this debt, and would allow the lender to accelerate all amounts due under this loan, which would trigger cross defaults under certain of our other indebtedness. As of September 15, 2008 approximately $35.0 million of MRU’s federal student loans are financed through a loan facility with Merrill Lynch Bank USA (the “Merrill Facility”), under which our wholly owned subsidiary, MRU SPV Funding, Inc. is the borrower. On September 15, 2008, the maturity date of the Merrill Facility was extended from September 26, 2008 to November 25, 2008 and certain other amendments were made to the Merrill Facility. Upon maturity, all principal and accrued interest and fees are immediately due and payable by the borrower. Because the borrower does not have the funds available to repay such amounts, an event of default will occur resulting in the rate of interest to be increased by 2% to one-month LIBOR plus 3% and the lender having the right to sell the assets pledged under the facility. Because the facility is non-recourse to MRU, if the lender foreclosed and sold the pledged assets, we would not be required to pay any increased costs associated with a default -21- Table of Contents rate of interest or any potential deficiency balance associated with a sale of the assets in the event that the cash flow of the financed private and federal student loans was not sufficient to satisfy the obligation in full. If the lender accelerates the amounts due under our loan facility with MLBU, the primary impact upon MRU would be that approximately $18.4 million aggregate principal amount of bridge notes as of September 8, 2008, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, would become due and payable by MRU pursuant to cross-default provisions, unless we obtain waivers from the holders of the bridge notes. If we cannot obtain additional credit facilities from new lenders, we may not be able to resume the origination of new loans. On September 5, 2008, we paused the origination of private student loans, at which time we had approximately $13 million in available warehouse capacity for the funding of private student loans under our loan facility with DZ Bank. On September 8, 2008, DZ Bank notified us that we could no longer draw funds from our loan facility with DZ Bank. On September 15, DZ Bank informally agreed to give us a waiver of certain events of default pursuant to the terms of which we will not be able to use their facility until we raise additional equity capital. Our Merrill Facility matures on November 25, 2008. We have been working with several banks and hedge funds to obtain additional warehouse capacity, and while these discussions are ongoing, so far we have not been successful in obtaining financing commitments from prospective lenders. Due to continuing disruptions in the credit markets precipitated by the subprime mortgage crisis and the credit and liquidity problems of other student loan finance companies, banks have grown significantly more conservative in their lending practices. Given the dramatic change in the overall credit environment and economy, we are not able to predict the terms, if any, under which we would be able to obtain new credit facilities. We are having ongoing discussions with a number of banks, private equity and hedge funds to obtain warehouse financing. However, no assurance can be given that our efforts to secure additional credit facilities will prove successful. If we are able to obtain terms for a new warehouse loan facility, we anticipate that the facility will have a significantly lower advance rate and a significantly higher cost of funds than our current facilities. Additionally, we anticipate that any warehouse lender will request an equity kicker in the form of warrants to acquire a significant number of shares of our common stock. We also expect that the successful closing of an equity or convertible debt capital raise will be a precondition to any such facility. If we are successful in raising additional equity capital but unsuccessful in obtaining a new warehouse loan facility, we would only be able to originate private student loans by investing our equity capital in originations on an unlevered basis. If we are not able to efficiently recycle invested equity capital through the execution of securitizations, whole loan sales, or other financing transactions, our return on equity would be decreased and we would be required to raise additional capital more frequently. Due to continued uncertainty and volatility of the credit markets, we may not be able to successfully securitize or sell our student loans in the future; or if we can securitize or sell, the terms of the transaction and the economic benefit to the company may not be favorable. Securitization refers to the technique of pooling loans and selling them to a special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity, typically a trust, which issues securities backed by those loans. The uncertainty and volatility of the credit markets may have a significant impact on the revenues derived -22- Table of Contents from our securitization transactions, or, despite our completion of a securitization of our private student loans in July 2008, may prevent us from accessing the securitization market at all. The securitization of our loan portfolios rely heavily on key assumptions, such as credit spreads and expected defaults. If credit spreads continue to widen and the defaults of borrowers under our existing loan portfolios increase, the revenues generated by our loan portfolios may be significantly reduced, and accordingly, we may be unable to continue to recover the same level of residual interest from our securitization trusts which we achieved in the past under more favorable market conditions. If we are unable to securitize, we will not be able to recognize a gain-on-sale on the loans we have originated, and consequently our net income will be lower. If the cost of funds on a securitization increases faster than we can increase the interest rates we charge student loan borrowers or we are unable for marketing, competitive or regulatory reasons to be able to fully pass along the increased cost of funds to the consumer, then we may incur a loss-on-sale on a securitization, reducing our net income. These same factors could likewise impact the economics of a whole loan sale of our student loans, which is one potential financing alternative to securitization. Our expected intention not to sell additional loans to our 2008 securitization could negatively impact our relationship with our existing asset-backed investors and our reputation as an issuer of asset-backed securities, potentially impacting future demand for our securitization offerings. We structured our 2008 securitization to allow us to sell up to an additional $29 million of our private student loans to the trust prior to September 30, 2008. The transaction structure provides that if additional loans are not sold into the securitization the cash reserved to purchase those loans will be returned to investors as a prepayment of principal, proportionate with each noteholder’s capital invested in the transaction. In the offering memorandum for the securitization, we disclosed to investors the potential risk that we would not be able to deliver additional loans and that such a prepayment of principal would occur in such event. Failure to deliver additional loans to the transaction does not constitute an event of default. Given our current liquidity and financial resources, we will not be able to transfer any additional loans to the trust prior to September 30, 2008. We believe that our failure to transfer additional loans to the securitization is in the best interest of our stockholders and may be in the best interest of our asset backed investors, as well, but we cannot predict how asset-backed investors will perceive the development and how it will impact future appetite in the market for our securitizations. We may need to pursue alternatives to securitizations, which may not be available or the terms of which may not be attractive. Student loan asset-backed securitizations have historically been our sole source of permanent financing for our student loan programs. While we were able to close our 2008 securitization in July, the credit markets have continued to worsen since that time. There can be no assurance that despite our prior success that we will be able to access the securitization market in the future. In addition, we have been unsuccessful thus far in obtaining alternatives to securitization to finance our loans. Other sources of funding have not been available to us on acceptable terms. Recent conditions in the capital markets have generally resulted in a substantial widening of credit spreads and significantly more restrictive covenants, which has adversely affected the pricing and terms and conditions of alternative funding mechanisms that we have pursued. -23- Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING In connection with both our recognition of revenue from securitization transactions and our appraisal of the fair market value of the student loans on our balance sheet, if the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary materially from those reflected in our financial statements. In our 2007 securitization, we have the right to receive any excess cash flow generated by the trust that is not needed to pay the trust’s liabilities. This right to future cash flow is referred to as a “residual” interest. We have recorded the residual as a receivable on our balance sheet at our estimate of its fair value. Because there are no quoted market prices for our residual receivable, accounting rules require that we use discounted cash flow modeling techniques and certain assumptions to estimate fair value. We have estimated the fair value initially and will estimate the fair value in each subsequent quarter and reflect the change in our estimate of fair value in the other comprehensive income component of stockholders’ equity for that period. Our key assumptions to estimate the fair value include prepayment and discount rates, interest rates and the expected defaults from the underlying securitized loan portfolio and the recoveries thereon. If the actual performance of the securitization trust varies from the key assumptions we use, the actual residuals that we receive from the trust could be significantly less than reflected in our current financial statements, and we may incur a material negative adjustment to our earnings in the period in which our assumptions change. In addition, our securitization yields, or our residuals from a new securitization transaction expressed as a percentage of the total principal and accrued interest securitized, realized on future securitized transactions could decrease if the actual performance of the securitization trust varies from the key assumptions we have used. In particular, economic, regulatory, competitive and other factors affecting prepayment, default and recovery rates on the underlying securitized loan portfolio, including full or partial prepayments and prepayments as a result of loan consolidation activity, could cause or contribute to differences between the actual performance of the securitization trusts and our key assumptions. Our residual in our securitization is subordinate to securities issued to investors by the trust and may fail to generate any cash flow for us if the securitized assets only generate enough cash flow to pay the debt holders. Our 2008 securitization was structured as on-balance sheet, so the private student loans that were legally sold to the trust and the asset-backed debt issued by the trust are consolidated on our balance sheet. The private student loans are recorded on our balance sheet at the lower of cost or market, or “LOCOM”, and the asset-backed debt is recorded at the outstanding principal balance of the notes. As in the 2007 securitization, in the 2008 securitization we retain the right to receive any excess cash flow not required to pay the expenses and meet the debt service requirements of the securitization, but the present value of this expected future cash flow is not recorded as an asset on our balance sheet. We record all of the student loans we hold on our books, both private and federal, whether they are in the 2008 securitization or financed by one of our credit facilities, at the LOCOM. Each quarter we are required to calculate the fair market value of the loans. Because prices for such whole loan assets are not readily available, we use a cash flow valuation technique similar to the valuation of our residual in our 2007 securitization. We estimate the potential securitization capital structure for assets and then apply collateral performance assumptions, estimate the cost of funds, and the potential discount rate for any residual cash flows. The sum of the estimated net bond proceeds plus the estimated residual value is considered to be the fair market value of the assets. The determination of this fair market value is subject to the same risks as described above with respect to the determination of the value of the residual from the 2007 securitization. As of June 30, 2008, we estimated that the fair market value of the private student loans on our books was $116 million. Since these loans previously had a carrying value of $130 million (determined by subtracting the deferred origination fees and valuation reserve -24- Table of Contents from the balance of the loans), we have recognized a $(14) million LOCOM adjustment which reduces our income. Our assumptions regarding the future cost of funding of auction rate notes are highly uncertain and greatly affect the valuation of our residual interest in our securitization. Our 2007 securitization trust issued auction rate notes to finance, in part, the purchase of student loans; our 2008 securitization trust did not issue any auction rate securities. Interest rates for the auction rate notes are determined from time to time at auctions. We use a spread over LIBOR to project the future cost of funding of the auction rate notes issued by the trust in determining the value of our service receivables. Historically, the spread over LIBOR that we used to estimate the future cost of funding was based on historical trends, then current auction rates for each trust and assumptions for future auction rates. During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, material deterioration of the debt capital markets resulted in actual auction rates that trended significantly higher than the rates we had assumed in the past. We believe that the higher actual auction rates will persist, resulting in a greater spread over LIBOR, for a longer period of time than we had previously estimated. Our assumption with regard to future auction rates, like our other key valuation assumptions, requires our subjective judgment and is susceptible to change. The interest rate on each outstanding auction rate note is limited by a maximum rate. The maximum rate is the lowest of three rates: a floating interest rate (generally one month LIBOR plus a margin), a fixed interest rate and the maximum legally permissible rate. The margin applicable to the floating interest rate is dependent upon the then current ratings of the notes subject to an auction. If the notes are downgraded, the applicable margin, and the maximum floating rate, would increase. If the interest rate determined pursuant to the auction procedures would exceed the maximum rate, the interest rate for the applicable interest period would be set at the maximum rate, but the amount of the “excess” interest would accrue as “carryover interest.” A noteholder’s right to receive carryover interest is superior to our residual interest in the securitization trust. As a result, our projected cash releases from the securitization trust that have issued auction rate notes, including the timing of receipt, could be materially adversely affected by increased costs of funding of auction rate notes, including the extent to which the trust accrues carryover interest. Since February 2008, the auctions of our single-A rated auction rate notes have consistently failed. These auctions may continue to fail and there can be no assurance that the auctions of our triple-A rated auction rate notes will not fail in the future, given that triple-A auction rate securities of other student loan issuers have been experiencing auction failures since February 2008. When the auctions of our single-A rated auction rate notes failed, their interest rate was set at the maximum rate for their rating category, which is one-month LIBOR plus 2.50%. While our triple-A rated auction rate notes have not experienced a failed auction, they have been pricing at very nearly the maximum rate for their rating category, which is one-month LIBOR plus 1.50%. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we revised our assumption with regard to the future cost of funding of auction rate notes. We assumed at June 30, 2008 that all outstanding auction rate notes will continue to bear interest at the current spreads over one-month LIBOR for 24 months in the case of AAA/Aaa-rated securities and 36 months in the case of A2/A-rated securities and thereafter decline over 18 and 24 months, respectively, to spreads that are lower but higher than historical levels for auction rates. As a result, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we decreased the estimated fair value of our securitization receivable by $5.5 million. See Note 16- Securitization to the consolidated financial statements. -25- Table of Contents On August 18, 2008, Moody’s announced that they were placing the auction rate tranches of our 2007 securitization on watch for potential downgrade, due to the continued higher than expected cost of funds. In the event Moody’s does downgrade the “Aaa” rated notes, the maximum rate with respect to those securities will increase from LIBOR plus 1.50% to LIBOR plus 2.50%. In the event that Moody’s does downgrade the “A2” rated notes below “A3”, the maximum rate with respect to those securities will increase from LIBOR plus 2.50% to LIBOR plus 3.50%. In such event, we believe that it is likely that the auction rate securities would trade at or near their new maximum rate. See Note 20- Subsequent Events to the consolidated financial statements. In late August 2008 through early September, most of the major investment banks that serve as broker dealers with respect to the auction rate securities entered into settlement agreements with the Attorney General of the State of New York whereby they agreed to repurchase the auction rate securities they had sold to investors. Because these broker dealers have been forced to repurchase securities they had sold to investors, they do not have the incentive to provide support for a market for these securities. Given this turn of events, we have now come to the view that it is highly unlikely that the auction rate market will ever recover. It is highly likely that our auction rate securities will trade at the maximum rate until maturity. See Note 20 - Subsequent Events to the consolidated financial statements. Given the potential for an increased maximum rate in the event of a ratings downgrade and likely permanent lack of support for the auction rate market, we anticipate valuing the residual at less than $1 million as of September 30, 2008, down from $4.1 million at June 30, 2008. If our auction rate securities were to be downgraded and the maximum rate therefore increased, our residual would not be expected to receive any cash flow and would have a value of zero. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS We have a history of losses and, because we expect our operating expenses to increase in the future, we may not be profitable in the near term, if ever. We have accumulated net operating loss deficits of $152.7 million through June 30, 2008. The fourth quarter of the 2007 fiscal year, in which we had net income of $0.8 million, was our first and, thus far, only profitable quarter due to our June 2007 securitization. There can be no assurance that we will generate net income for our stockholders on a consistent basis, or at all. We expect to generate a significant portion of our income from gains on the sale of our student loans to securitizations; our financial results and future growth would be adversely affected if we are unable to securitize or if as was the case with our 2008 securitization that due to investor demand we were not able to structure the transaction to meet the criteria for sale treatment. We completed our first securitization in June 2007, in which we recognized a gain of $16.2 million from the sale of $137.8 million of private student loans to a trust established by us; in September 2007, we sold $32.4 million of additional private student loans to the trust and recorded a gain of $4.1 million; in November 2007, we sold $380,000 million of additional private student loans to the trust without gain. We completed our second securitization in July 2008. Unlike our first securitization, which was accounted for as a sale of assets to an off-balance sheet trust resulting in a gain-on-sale for income purposes, our second securitization was not able to meet the criteria for sale treatment due to the need to provide flexibility in hedging certain tranches of fixed rate asset-backed notes, which were issued to -26- Table of Contents meet investor demand and was instead accounted for as a financing whereby the loans remained on our balance sheet and the asset-backed notes were booked as liabilities. No gain or loss was recorded in connection with the transaction. We anticipate that future transactions will be treated as sales for accounting, so long as the transaction structure can meet the criteria for sale treatment. To the extent that the securitization market is open for us, we intend to continue to securitize our student loans from time to time as sufficient volumes of loans are originated to efficiently execute such transactions. The amount of gain or loss we will recognize from these securitizations will be affected by the timing, size and structure of the securitization transactions, as well as the composition of the loan pools to be securitized, the return expectations of investors and assumptions we make regarding loan portfolio performance, including defaults, recoveries, prepayments, the cost of funds and cost of servicing. Because we expect the gain on sale of student loans to securitizations to comprise a significant portion of future income, the size and timing of such transactions will greatly affect our quarterly results. Until such time as we originate sufficient volume to efficiently securitize loans every quarter, our income will vary significantly from one quarter to the next depending upon whether a securitization is executed in a given quarter or not. A number of factors could make securitization more difficult, more expensive or unavailable, including, but not limited to, financial results and losses, changes within our organization, specific events that have an adverse impact on our reputation, changes in the activities of our business partners, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that have an adverse impact on the financial services industry, counter-party availability, changes affecting our assets, our corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, ratings agencies’ actions, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. We have historically been dependent on the securitization markets for the long-term financing of our student loans. If this market continues to experience difficulties or if our asset quality were to deteriorate, we may be unable to securitize our student loans or to do so on favorable terms, including pricing. If we were unable to securitize our student loans on favorable terms, we would seek alternative funding sources to fund increases in student loans and meet our other liquidity needs. These may include selling the loans to other financial institutions or holding the loans on warehouse lines to term. If we were unable to find cost-effective and stable funding alternatives, our funding capabilities and liquidity would be negatively impacted and our cost of funds could increase, adversely affecting our results of operations, and our ability to grow would be limited. Because fundings under our warehouse facility were suspended pending our raising additional equity capital, we had to cancel some of the loans that were in our funding pipeline and could be subject to negative publicity and claims as a result. On September 8, 2008, we were informed that we could no longer draw funds under our loan facility with DZ Bank. As a result of this event, we were unable to fund approximately $2.7 million in loans that we had informed applicants that we had planned to fund. We are currently working with affected borrowers to help them find alternative means of meeting their funding needs. We may be subject to negative publicity which may harm our reputation with schools and customers and the affected customers may attempt to seek damages claims due to our failure to fund them. -27- Table of Contents Our pause in the origination of private student loans may be damaging to our brand and may make it more difficult for us to reestablish originations. On September 5, 2008, we paused the origination of private student loans to better manage existing liquidity and capital resources. If we are able to raise additional equity capital and/or obtain additional warehouse capacity, we plan on relaunching our private student loan product. The potential negative perception created by not being able to provide financing for customers that have sought financing at our www.myrichuncle.com website may lead to reduced response rates in the future and increase the cost of customer acquisition. While we believe that we will be able to reestablish confidence in our brand, in the short-term, this could result in lower growth rates or require more money to be spent on marketing to achieve targeted volume, overall making our business less efficient than it had been. Proposed changes to GAAP Accounting by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, if passed in the future, could make it more difficult to account for a securitization transaction as a sale of assets, which could prevent the Company from recognizing a gain from such transactions. The Company has securitized student loans through a qualified special purpose, bankruptcy remote trust. For our 2007 securitization, we do not consolidate the financial results of the trust with our own financial results. Our 2008 securitization also uses a qualified special purpose, bankruptcy remote trust but, due to our retaining certain rights of control, did not qualify for sale treatment under Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, or FAS 140, as currently constructed, and consequently, we consolidate the assets and liabilities of the trust. See Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Securitization Accounting” for a discussion of our determination to not consolidate the securitization trust. On April 2, 2008, the FASB held a board meeting to discuss the FASB staff recommendation to amend the criteria under which securitizations of financial assets can be treated as sales off-balance sheet and thus allow for the recognition of a gain- or loss-on-sale, as governed by FAS 140. A majority of the board agreed with FASB staff recommendations to increase the standard that must be met for sale treatment of securitized financial assets. The process of amending financial accounting standards can be lengthy and generally involves input from companies that could be affected by the proposed changes. When or if such proposed amendment is made, or the exact implications of the final version cannot be predicted. While such an amendment, if it were to come about, would not prevent us from securitizing our assets, it could potentially, depending upon the final version, require us to account for the securitization transaction as a financing rather than a sale, which would prevent the recording of a gain. Such a change, if it were to come to pass, could have a significant impact on our planned recognition of revenue, causing us to recognize income on the loans it had originated over the life of the assets rather than having a significant gain recorded at the time of securitization and trailing residual income thereafter. We had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls or discover material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or timely or detect fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in each Annual Report on -28- Table of Contents Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As disclosed in Part I, Item 9A of this annual report, during the fourth quarter of our 2008 fiscal year, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our control over our cash assets. Although management implemented controls and has remediated the material weakness as of June 30, 2008, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to timely meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, there may be errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or our filings may not be timely and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. If our private student loan origination and purchase agreements with the Bank were to terminate, our business could be disrupted and we could be subject to increased regulation. Because of our loan origination and loan purchase relationship with the Bank, the private student loans we facilitate and purchase from the Bank are not subject to many state lending and consumer protection laws, including limitations on certain interest rates, fees and other charges. If our loan origination and loan purchase agreements with the Bank were to terminate, our business could be disrupted until we were able to enter into similar agreements with another lender similarly exempt from such state lending and consumer protection laws. If we were unable to obtain such agreements with another lender, our operations would be subject to many state lending and consumer protection laws to which the private student loans we currently facilitate and purchase are not subject, and this could adversely affect our operations and financial results. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth. Our strategy requires growing our business. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. We must continue to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, -29- Table of Contents supervise and manage new employees. If we are unable to manage our growth and our operations, our financial results could be adversely affected. We have reduced our headcount in order to better manage our cash flow expenditure and extend the period of time available to us to raise additional equity. While we plan to make increasing use of lower-cost outsourcing alternatives and to develop internal computer systems to enhance existing employee efficiency, if we are successful in raising additional equity, we expect that additional hires will be required. Demand for our products may decrease. Demand for higher education financing may decrease. This may be as a result of a decrease in demand for higher education or increased affordability for higher education. This increased affordability may be the result of universities reducing costs, families having more funds available to pay for higher education, increases in the amount of availability of free financing such as scholarships or grants, or other factors unknown to us. Additionally, further government support of higher education through increased funding for students and tax or other incentives related to higher education may reduce the costs, increase the affordability and decrease the demand for our private student loan products and increase prepayment. Additionally, over the last six months we have been increasing the interest rates and origination fees charged on newly originated private student loans to become profitable given the current cost of funds and generate adequate return on equity given the increased capital that will be required to operate our business and the lower expected advance rates on new warehouse facilities and securitizations. We believe that our competitors will be forced by the same market dynamics to adopt similar pricing, but if that is not the case the demand for our private student loans could decrease. The growth of our business could be adversely affected by changes in federal student loan programs or expansions in the population of students eligible for loans under federal student loan programs. More than 90% of our loan volume has come from private student loans originated to finance post-secondary education; we have discontinued federal lending in July 2008 for the time being, so now 100% of our volume comes from private student loans. The availability and terms of federal student loans that the federal government originates, guarantees, subsidizes or is willing to purchase affects the demand for private student loans because students and their families often rely on private loans to bridge a gap between available funds, including family savings, grants and federal and state loans, and the costs of post-secondary education. The federal government currently places both annual and aggregate limitations on the amount of federal education loans that any student can receive and determines the criteria for federal student loan eligibility. These guidelines are generally adjusted in connection with periodic funding authorizations from the United States Congress for programs under the Higher Education Act. The Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2005 (part of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Public Law 109-171) increased the annual amounts that first and second year college students and graduate or professional students may borrow and made Parent Loans for Undergraduate Students, or PLUS, loans available to graduate and professional students. The loan limit increases took effect July 1, 2007 while most other provisions took effect July 1, 2006. In addition, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-84) increased the availability of certain federal education grants, reduced the loan interest rates available in connection with certain federal undergraduate education loans, and made other revisions to the Higher Education Act, generally effective October 1, 2007. Public Law 110-227, the "Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008," increased the annual and aggregate limitations on the amount of unsubsidized Stafford education loans undergraduate students may receive, made other changes to the Higher -30- Table of Contents Education Act, and gave the Department of Education (the “Department”) authority to purchase (and enter into forward commitments to purchase) certain subsidized and unsubsidized Stafford loans and PLUS loans under certain conditions, in order to increase the availability of loan capital to meet the demand for such loans. The Department's authority to purchase such loans is presently scheduled to expire on July 1, 2009 unless this authority is renewed by Congress. Public Law 110-315, the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008, was signed by President Bush on August 14, 2008, and further amended and extended the Higher Education Act. These and other recent federal legislation could weaken the demand for private student loans. In addition, legislation such as the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 has reduced the loan interest rates available in connection with certain federal undergraduate student loans, which could result in increased competition in the market for private student loans, which could adversely affect the volume of private loans and securitization transactions and, as a result, the growth of our business. Other sources of higher education financing may be preferred by borrowers. We compete with other options that students and families may have available to them to finance the costs of post-secondary education. Families and students may simply prefer other options. These options include, among others: home equity loans, prepaid tuition plans, 529 plans, education IRAs, and credit cards. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against other providers of funds, including but not limited to traditional and established student loan providers, credit card or mortgage lenders or any new forms of competition. If we are unable to compete effectively with these sources of funding, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will suffer and may require us to revise or abandon our business plan or seek to sell, curtail, or discontinue our business. We must be able to compete effectively with other providers of higher education financing products and services to succeed. The market for higher education finance is highly competitive, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. The student loan origination market has a large number of competitors and is dominated by a number of large institutions, including JP Morgan Chase, Citibank, Wells Fargo, First Marblehead Corp. (through its facilitation services for leading originators of private loans), Nelnet and Sallie Mae. Most of our competitors have, among other competitive advantages, greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships than we have. If third parties choose to provide the range of services that we provide, pricing for our services may become more competitive, which could lower our profitability or eliminate profitability altogether. Our credit underwriting system may have defects or turn out to be ineffective, which could materially and adversely affect our prospects, business, and results of operations. The proprietary system we use to score our students in determining their eligibility for and/or cost of financing and to control risk is based on our existing knowledge and available actuarial data and may be incomplete and/or inaccurate. If this system turns out to be ineffective, our prospects, business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. -31- Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if our student loan servicers fail to provide adequate or timely services or if our relationship with a servicer terminates. All of our student loans are serviced by third-parties. This arrangement allows us to increase the volume of loans without incurring the overhead investment in servicing operations. Our reliance on external service providers for loan servicing subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely services, such as inadequate notice of developments in prepayments, delinquencies and defaults. A substantial increase in these rates could adversely affect our ability to access profitably the securitization market and the value of our residual receivables. Because securitization involves the creation of a new legal entity to become the owner of the loans, our servicers must execute a new servicing contract with the new legal entity. Generally, we would expect that these new contracts would mirror the terms of the existing servicing contracts, but it is possible that the servicer could demand alternative terms that could make it more difficult to securitize our loans. In such a circumstance, we might conclude that we should transfer servicing to another servicer in order to maximize the liquidity of our assets. In addition, if our relationship with any third-party servicer terminates, we would need to transfer servicing to another third-party servicer of student loans, which could be time consuming and costly. In such event, our business could be adversely affected. If we do not comply with applicable governmental regulations, our business may suffer. Our business operations and product offerings are subject to various governmental regulations. If we or our business partners do not comply with applicable governmental regulations, our business may suffer. If we become subject to additional government regulation, our compliance costs could increase significantly. Regulatory compliance activities could also divert our human and other resources from revenue-generating activities. Changes in the regulatory regime could impair our business. We operate in a heavily regulated industry and new laws and changes in existing laws could affect our business. The federal government and state governments regulate extensively the financial institutions and other entities that offer consumer finance products. The applicable laws and regulations are subject to change and generally are intended to benefit and protect borrowers rather than our stockholders or us. Failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and affect the value of our assets. We could also be required to indemnify our employees in connection with any expenses or liabilities that they may incur individually in connection with regulatory action against them. As a result, there could be a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition and our results of operations. Litigation and state legislation during the last several years has sought to re−characterize certain loan marketers and other originators and agents of lenders as de facto lenders for purposes of various state lending and consumer protections laws; if such legislation and/or litigation on similar theories were successful against us or any third party marketer, the loans that we purchase and securitize would be subject to individual state lending and consumer protection laws. All of our private student loans are originated on behalf and in the name of the Bank. After the Bank originates a loan that we or one of our partners have facilitated, the loan is purchased by one of our special purpose subsidiaries or affiliates and pledged to a warehouse facility for short-term financing prior to securitization or other permanent financing. As a federally-chartered savings bank, the Bank is not subject to many state lending and consumer protection laws, including limitations on certain interest rates, fees and other charges. The promissory notes signed by private student loan borrowers under our private student loan program are payable to the order of the Bank, and also -32- Table of Contents expressly provide that the promissory notes and the loan advances made under the promissory notes are governed by federal law and the law of the State of New York without regard to conflict of law rules. In providing our private student loan services to the Bank, we do not act as a lender, guarantor or loan servicer, and the terms of the loans that we purchase from the Bank and subsequently sell or securitize are regulated in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the Bank, a federally-chartered savings bank that is headquartered in New York State. Litigation during the last several years has asserted that certain types of finance companies use out of state bank lenders to evade the usury and interest rate caps, and other consumer protection laws, imposed by the states where the marketers do business. Such litigation has sought, successfully in some instances, to re−characterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought recently in the context of gift cards issued in the name of national banks and marketed by unaffiliated third parties (such as the owners or operators of retail shopping centers), and income tax refund anticipation loans originated in the name of national banks and marketed by unaffiliated third parties (such as providers of income tax preparation services). We believe that our activities, and the activities of third parties whose marketing on behalf of the lender is coordinated by us, are distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases. However, states are enacting new legislation regulating the conduct of third party marketers of refund anticipation loans and gift cards, and state legislatures and regulators are also attempting to regulate the conduct of third party marketers of private student loans. Additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the loans we facilitate if we, or any third party loan marketer whose activities we coordinate, were re−characterized as a lender, and the loans (or the provisions of the loans governing interest rates, fees and other charges) could be unenforceable. In addition, we could be subject to claims by consumers, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable state laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on us. To date, there have been no actions taken or threatened against us on the theory that we have engaged in unauthorized lending. However, any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we violate applicable privacy laws our business could be materially adversely affected. The federal government and state governments have enacted fraud and abuse laws and laws to protect borrowers' and applicants’ privacy. Violations of these laws or regulations governing our operations or our third party business partners and our and their clients could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide services or exclusion from participating in education finance programs. These penalties or exclusions, were they to occur, would negatively impair our ability to operate our business. In some cases, such violations may also render the loan assets unenforceable or uncollectible due to, for example, successful borrower claims or counterclaims for damages and penalties under such laws or regulations. We could also have liability to consumers if we do not maintain their privacy, or if we do not abide by our own privacy policy and any such violations could damage our reputation and the value and goodwill of our brand name. Violations of these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and results of operations. -33- Table of Contents We rely heavily on our technology and our technology could become ineffective or obsolete. We rely on technology to interact with consumers to originate our products and to perform some servicing functions pertaining to our financing products. It is possible that our technology may not be effective, or that consumers will not perceive it to be effective. We will be required to continually enhance and update our technology to maintain its efficacy and to avoid obsolescence. The costs of doing so may be substantial, and may be higher than the costs that we anticipate for technology maintenance and development. If we are unable to maintain the efficacy of our technology, we may lose market share. Further, even if we are able to maintain technical effectiveness, our technology may not be the most efficient means of reaching our objectives, in which case we may incur higher operating costs than we would were our technology more efficient. The impact of technical shortcomings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our business may suffer if we experience technical problems. If our technology does not function properly, is breached or interrupted, or contains errors that we have not corrected, we may not achieve the performance we expect. Any interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business. For instance, our technology may contain "bugs" or become infected by computer viruses or worms that may interfere with the functionality of our technology or negatively impact our proprietary databases. We may not immediately detect and fix these problems, which may increase damage to our business. These problems may result in, among other consequences, our over-estimating cash flows from borrowers or underestimating default rates. Third parties who have relied on our financial models or projections may have recourse against us in the event of inaccuracies caused by technical or other problems. Individually or cumulatively, these types of problems may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If these types of technical problems were to lead to errors in our reporting of our collateral, it could negatively impact our collateral or our compliance under current or future lending facilities. If our systems are unable to accommodate a high volume of traffic on our web site, it could cause us to lose business. If existing or future customers’ use of our web site infrastructure increases beyond our capacity, customers may experience delays and interruptions in service. As a result, they may seek the products of our competitors and our revenue growth could be limited or reduced. Because we seek to generate a high volume of traffic and accommodate a large number of customers on our web site, the satisfactory performance, reliability, and availability of our web site, processing systems, and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to serve customers. If use of our web site continues to increase, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, processing systems, and network infrastructure. Our online services may in the future experience slower response times due to increased traffic if this risk is not effectively addressed, which could cause us to lose business. Our reliance on technology, including the Internet, as a means of offering and servicing our products and services may result in damages. We offer and sell our products and services to borrowers using technology. Although the use of the Internet has become commonplace, people may approach the entering of private information, as well as conducting transactions through the Internet, hesitantly. We have implemented security measures within our systems, but skilled computer-users could potentially circumvent some of these precautions. -34- Table of Contents While we are dedicated to maintaining a high level of security, it is impossible to guarantee total and absolute security. Any security breach could cause us to be in violation of regulations regarding information privacy and as such cause us to pay fines or to lose our ability to provide our products. Consumers may also be hesitant or unwilling to use our products if they are or become aware of a security problem or potential security problem. We could also be liable to consumers or other third parties if we do not maintain the confidentiality of our data and the personal information of our consumers. Monitoring unauthorized use of the systems and processes that we developed is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and services will be adversely affected. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Legal protection we seek for our intellectual property assets may not prove to be available or effective. We have filed a patent application for protecting certain intellectual property assets and intend to continue to apply for new innovations. These patent applications, we expect, could provide an important competitive advantage to us, and our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if such patent applications are not granted or upheld. In addition to seeking patent protection, we rely on copyright, trademark and trade secret protection for our intellectual property. These methods may not be adequate to deter third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property or to prevent the disclosure of confidential information or breaches of non-competition agreements between us and our employees or consultants, and may not provide us with adequate remedies for misappropriation. Our technology could also be designed around, replicated or reverse-engineered by competitors, and we may not have the ability to pursue legal remedies against them. For example, competitors could replicate data or acquire data comparable to that which we have assembled in our proprietary databases, which could erode our competitive advantage. We also may fail to detect infringement of our intellectual property rights and may thereby lose those rights. In addition, obtaining, monitoring and enforcing our intellectual property rights will likely be costly, and may distract our management and employees from pursuing their other objectives, which could impair our performance. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to litigation for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Should we infringe, or be accused of infringing, an existing patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret or other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be subject to litigation. Such litigation will be costly. If we settle or are found culpable in such litigation, we may be required to pay damages, including punitive damages (such as treble damages) if we are found to have willfully infringed, and we may also be required to pay license fees or cease to use that intellectual property which is found to have been infringed by us. The amount of damages we are required to pay may be substantial, and may require us to obtain additional sources of revenue or additional capital to continue operating. We also may be precluded from offering products or services that rely on intellectual property that is found to have been infringed by us. Further, we may also be required to cease offering the affected products or services while a determination as to infringement is considered by a court. If we are not able to offer -35- Table of Contents products or services, our business, financial condition and results from operations may be materially adversely affected. Senior management may be difficult to replace if they leave. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or the inability to attract, retain and maintain additional senior management personnel could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team. Our Chief Executive Officer and Co-Presidents have employment agreements which expire on October 31, 2009 and April 1, 2009 respectively. Our Chief Financial Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, General Counsel and Controller do not have employment agreements and are considered to be “at will” employees. We do not maintain key man insurance policies on any of our officers or key employees. We may not be able to find qualified replacements for any of these individuals if their services are no longer available. We may be unable to attract and retain key employees. Failure to attract and retain necessary technical personnel and skilled management could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified personnel. If we fail to attract, train and retain sufficient numbers of these highly qualified people, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We may issue stock options or other equity-based compensation to attract and retain employees. The issuance of these securities could be dilutive to the holders of our other equity securities. RISKS RELATING TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate substantially, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. During the twelve months ended September 12, 2008, the closing sale price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from $0.60 to $5.91. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of our common stock include, but are not limited to those listed in this risk factors section and the following: · our default under the Senior Secured Notes or a warehouse facility, all of which we currently have waivers of default under which will expire in the next one to two months; · our filing for bankruptcy protection or an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding instituted against us; · actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; · announcement by us, our competitors or our potential competitors of acquisitions, new products or services, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of financial services companies; -36- Table of Contents · general economic conditions and trends; · negative publicity about the student loan market generally or us specifically; · major catastrophic events; · loss of a significant client or clients; or · purchases or sales of large blocks of our stock. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause volatility in our quarterly operating results. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue because the markets in which we operate are subject to seasonal fluctuations based on the typical school year. We typically originate the largest proportion of our student loan receivables volume in our fiscal first quarter ending September 30, 2008. These fluctuations could result in volatility or adversely affect our stock price. The rights of our Series B and Series B-2 preferred stockholders may adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Our charter documents provide our board of directors with the authority to issue series of preferred stock without a vote or action by our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the authority to determine the terms of our preferred stock, including designations, powers, preferences and voting rights. The rights granted to the holders of our outstanding Series B and Series B-2 preferred stock may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. For example, the Series B and Series B-2 preferred stock are entitled to receive a liquidation preference over all other equity securities that are junior to them. In addition, subject to certain conditions, our charter documents provide protective provisions to the holders of our Series B and Series B-2 preferred stock requiring us to first obtain the written consent of the majority of the holders of each of our Series B and Series B-2 preferred stock prior to undertaking certain actions, including, without limitation, the sale of substantially all of our assets or our liquidation and winding up, amending our charter documents in a manner adverse to the Series B or the Series B-2 preferred stockholders, as applicable, the issuance of additional shares of our stock or any options or convertible securities, and paying dividends to our stockholders. Furthermore, our charter documents provide that, subject to certain conditions, the Series B preferred stockholders have a right of first offer to purchase any new securities offered by us which are junior to the Series B preferred stock. As a result, the rights granted to the holders of our Series B and Series B-2 preferred stock may significantly impair our ability to raise equity capital if the majority of the holders of our Series B or Series B-2 preferred stock do not consent to the offer, sale and issuance of the new securities or we are unable to obtain a waiver of each of our Series B preferred stockholder’s right of first offer. In addition, under the terms of the Series B preferred stock, the price at which the Series B preferred will convert into our common will be adjusted on a weighted average basis if we issue common stock or common stock equivalent securities at a price less than $3.80 per share Insiders and significant stockholders have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. As of September 12, 2008, our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 24.6% of the outstanding voting shares and our two largest institutional stockholders owned an additional 36.27% of our outstanding voting shares. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, -37- Table of Contents could substantially influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 