ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K and the other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in evaluating Critical Therapeutics and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business depends heavily on the commercial success of ZYFLO CR. ZYFLO CR is currently our only commercially marketed product. We commercially launched ZYFLO CR on September 27, 2007. In February 2008, we discontinued the production and marketing of ZYFLO, the immediate-release formulation of zileuton, which we had commercially launched in October 2005. ZYFLO did not achieve broad market acceptance. If we are able to successfully commercialize ZYFLO CR, we expect it will account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot assure you that ZYFLO CR will not suffer the same lack of broad market acceptance that has affected ZYFLO. Our product candidates are in early clinical and preclinical stages of development and are a number of years away from commercialization. Research and development of product candidates is a lengthy and expensive process. Our early-stage product candidates in particular will require substantial funding for us to complete preclinical testing and clinical trials, initiate manufacturing and, if approved for sale, initiate commercialization. If ZYFLO CR is not commercially successful, we may be forced to find additional sources of funding earlier than we anticipated. If we are not successful in obtaining additional funding on acceptable terms, we may be forced to significantly delay, limit or eliminate one or more of our development or commercialization programs. If ZYFLO CR does not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues unless we are able to successfully develop and commercialize other product candidates. The commercial success of ZYFLO CR will depend upon its acceptance by the medical community, third-party payors and patients. Physicians will prescribe ZYFLO CR only if they determine, based on experience, clinical data, side effect profiles or other factors, that this product either alone or in combination with other products is appropriate for managing their patient’s asthma. We believe that the primary advantage 28 Table of Contents of ZYFLO CR over ZYFLO is ZYFLO CR’s more convenient dosing schedule, but this advantage may not result in broad market acceptance of ZYFLO CR, and we may experience the same lack of market acceptance with ZYFLO CR that we have experienced with ZYFLO. Despite being approved by the FDA since 1996, ZYFLO did not achieve broad market acceptance. During the period between our commercial launch of ZYFLO in October 2005 through December 2007, prescription data for ZYFLO indicates that approximately 5,409 physicians prescribed the product. We recorded revenue from the sale of ZYFLO of $8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $6.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We recorded revenue from the sale of ZYFLO CR of $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. We experienced difficulty expanding the prescriber and patient base for ZYFLO, in part, we believe, because some physicians view ZYFLO as less effective than other products on the market or view its clinical data as outdated and because it requires dosing of one pill four times per day, which some physicians and patients may find inconvenient or difficult to comply with compared to other available asthma therapies that require dosing only once or twice daily. In addition, if physicians do not prescribe ZYFLO CR for the recommended dosing regimen of two pills twice daily, or if patients do not comply with the dosing schedule and take less than the prescribed number of tablets, our sales of ZYFLO CR will be limited and our revenues will be adversely affected. Market perceptions about the safety of ZYFLO may limit the market acceptance of ZYFLO CR. In the clinical trials that were reviewed by the FDA prior to its approval of ZYFLO, 3.2% of the approximately 5,000 patients who received ZYFLO experienced increased levels of a liver enzyme called alanine transaminase, or ALT, of over three times the levels normally seen in the bloodstream. In these trials, one patient developed symptomatic hepatitis with jaundice, which resolved upon discontinuation of therapy, and three patients developed mild elevations in bilirubin. In clinical trials for ZYFLO CR, 1.94% of the patients taking ZYFLO CR in a three-month efficacy trial and 2.6% of the patients taking ZYFLO CR in a six-month safety trial experienced ALT levels greater than or equal to three times the level normally seen in the bloodstream. Because ZYFLO CR can elevate liver enzyme levels, periodic liver function tests are recommended for patients taking ZYFLO CR, based upon its product label, which was approved by the FDA in May 2007. Some physicians and patients may perceive liver function tests as inconvenient or indicative of safety issues, which could make them reluctant to prescribe or accept ZYFLO CR and any other zileuton product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize. As a result, many physicians may have negative perceptions about the safety of ZYFLO CR and other zileuton product candidates, which could limit their commercial acceptance. The absence of ZYFLO from the market prior to our commercial launch in October 2005 may have exacerbated any negative perceptions about ZYFLO if physicians believe the absence of ZYFLO from the market was related to safety or efficacy issues. These negative perceptions could carry over to ZYFLO CR. The position of ZYFLO CR in managed care formularies, which are lists of approved products developed by managed care organizations, or MCOs, may make it more difficult to expand the current market share for this product. In many instances, ZYFLO CR had been relegated to a third-tier status, which typically requires the highest co-pay for patients. In some cases, MCOs may require additional evidence that a patient had previously failed another therapy, additional paperwork or prior authorization from the MCO before approving reimbursement for ZYFLO CR. If any existing negative perceptions about ZYFLO persist, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance for ZYFLO CR. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance of ZYFLO CR, we will not generate significant revenues unless we are able to successfully develop and commercialize other product candidates. We are considering alternatives to our current business strategy that could significantly impact our future operations and financial position. In November 2007, we announced that we are in the process of reviewing a range of strategic alternatives that could result in potential changes to our current business strategy and future operations. As part of this process, we are considering alternatives to our current business strategy designed to maximize the value of our 29 Table of Contents commercial organization and product development programs. We have engaged an investment bank to advise us in this process. As a result of this process, we could determine to engage in one or more potential transactions, such as the sale or divestiture of certain of our assets, the sale or merger of our company or other strategic transactions, or to continue to operate our business in accordance with our existing business strategy. Pending any decision to change strategic direction, we are continuing our commercial and development activities in accordance with our existing business strategy with an increased focus on managing our cash position. We cannot assure you that our evaluation of strategic alternatives will lead to a change in our current business strategy, or result in one or more transactions. If we determine to pursue an alternative strategy or engage in a strategic transaction, our future business, prospects, financial position and operating results could be significantly different than those in historical periods or projected by our management. Because of the significant uncertainty regarding our future plans, we are not able to accurately predict the impact of a potential change in our existing business strategy. If our marketing and sales infrastructure and presence are not adequate or our collaborative marketing arrangements are not successful, our ability to market and sell our products will be impaired. After reducing the size of our sales force as part of cost reduction programs that we announced in 2006, we then increased the size of our sales force in connection with the commercial launch of ZYFLO CR. As of February 29, 2008, our sales force consists of approximately 39 sales representatives. Rebuilding our sales force involved significant time and expense. If we are not successful in our efforts to retain an adequate sales force, our ability to market and sell ZYFLO CR will be impaired. In March 2007, we entered into a co-promotion agreement with Dey, L.P., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mylan Inc., or DEY, for the co-promotion of ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO. We cannot predict whether the co-promotion arrangement will lead to increased sales for ZYFLO CR. DEY initiated promotional detailing activities for ZYFLO CR on September 27, 2007 and for ZYFLO on April 30, 2007. Given the recent initiation of DEY’s efforts, the potential success of the co-promotion arrangement is uncertain. Under the co-promotion agreement, we agreed to provide a minimum number of promotional details per month by our sales representatives to a specified group of office-based physicians and other health care professionals for ZYFLO CR. If we are not successful in our efforts to provide the required level of promotional detailing, DEY’s co-promotion fee may be increased and DEY may have a right to terminate the co-promotion agreement for ZYFLO CR. For example, if we experience greater than expected turnover of sales representatives, we may have difficulty satisfying our minimum detailing obligations. In February 2008, Mylan Inc., which acquired DEY in October 2007 as part of its acquisition of Merck KGaA’s generic business, of which DEY was a part, announced that it is pursing strategic alternatives for DEY, including the potential sale of the business. Any decision by DEY or Mylan not to devote sufficient resources to the co-promotion arrangement or any future reductions in efforts under the co-promotion arrangement, including as a result of the sale or potential sale of DEY by Mylan, would limit our ability to generate significant revenues from product sales. On June 25, 2007, as contemplated by the terms of the zileuton co-promotion agreement, we and DEY entered into a separate definitive co-promotion agreement providing for us to co-promote DEY’s product PERFOROMISTtm (formoterol fumarate) Inhalation Solution for the long-term, twice-daily maintenance treatment of bronchoconstriction for emphysema and chronic bronchitis, which is also known as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD. Under the PERFOROMIST co-promotion agreement, DEY agreed to pay us a co-promotion fee based on retail sales of PERFOROMIST and we agreed to provide a minimum number of promotional details per month by our sales representatives to a specified group of office-based physicians and other health care professionals. If we are not successful in our efforts to provide the required level of promotional detailing for PERFOROMIST, our co-promotion fee may be reduced and DEY may have a right to terminate the PERFOROMIST co-promotion agreement. Promoting both ZYFLO CR and PERFOROMIST may be challenging for our sales representatives and may reduce their efficiency, which could negatively impact our revenues. The amount of any co-promotion fee that DEY pays to us under the PERFOROMIST co-promotion agreement will be limited if PERFOROMIST does not achieve market acceptance. For example, safety concerns relating to PERFOROMIST may harm potential sales. PERFOROMIST belongs to a class of 30 Table of Contents medications known as long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists, or LABAs, which may increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled study in the United States comparing the safety of the LABA salmeterol or placebo plus usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. This finding also may apply to formoterol, the active ingredient in PERFOROMIST. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we did not receive any co-promotion fees from DEY in connection with the PERFOROMIST co-promotion agreement because the level of quarterly retail sales for PERFOROMIST did not exceed a specified level. In addition, Mylan’s sale or potential sale of DEY could lead to a slower launch of PERFOROMIST, negatively impact retail sales of PERFOROMIST and limit the amount of any co-promotion fee that we are entitled to receive from DEY. A failure to maintain appropriate inventory levels could harm our reputation and subject us to financial losses. We are subject to minimum purchase obligations under our supply agreements with our third-party manufacturers, which require us to buy inventory of the zileuton active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and tablet cores for ZYFLO CR. If ZYFLO CR does not achieve the level of demand we anticipate, we may not be able to use the inventory we are required to purchase. As of December 31, 2007, we had $5.6 million in inventory, consisting primarily of tablet cores and API. Based on our current expectations regarding demand for ZYFLO CR, we expect that our inventory levels could increase substantially in the future as a result of our minimum purchase obligations under our supply agreements with third-party manufacturers and orders we have submitted to date. Significant differences between our current estimates and judgments and future estimated demand for our products and the useful life of inventory may result in significant charges for excess inventory or purchase commitments in the future. If we are required to recognize charges for excess inventories, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in the period in which we recognize charges for excess inventory. In the quarter ended December 31, 2007, we reserved for four batches of ZYFLO CR tablet cores which can not be released into our commercial supply chain due to issues associated with their manufacture. We cannot assure you that we will not have similar manufacturing issues in producing ZYFLO CR in the future. If we are unable to manufacture or release ZYFLO CR on a timely and consistent basis, if we fail to maintain an adequate inventory of zileuton API or ZYFLO CR core tablets, if our inventory were to be destroyed or damaged, or if our inventory were to reach its expiration date, patients might not have access to ZYFLO CR, our reputation and our brand could be harmed and physicians may be less likely to prescribe ZYFLO CR in the future. Conversely, if we are unable to sell our inventory in a timely manner, we could experience cash flow difficulties and additional financial losses. If the market is not receptive to our product candidates, we will be unable to generate revenues from sales of these products. The probability of commercial success of each of our product candidates is subject to significant uncertainty. Factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our product candidates under development include: • the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approval and the countries in which approvals are obtained; • the safety, efficacy and ease of administration; • the therapeutic benefit or other improvement over existing comparable products; • pricing and cost effectiveness; • the ability to be produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; 31 Table of Contents • the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and Federal governments, under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans and managed care organizations; and • the extent and success of our sales and marketing efforts. The failure of our product candidates to achieve market acceptance would prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues from sales of these product candidates. We may not be successful in our efforts to advance and expand our portfolio of product candidates. An element of our strategy is to develop and commercialize product candidates that address large unmet medical needs. We seek to do so through: • preclinical studies to evaluate product candidates; • sponsored research programs with academic and other research institutions and individual doctors, chemists and researchers; and • collaborations with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with complementary clinical development or commercialization capabilities or capital to assist in funding product development and commercialization. In addition, subject to having sufficient cash and other resources to develop or commercialize additional products, we may seek to in-license or acquire product candidates or approved products. However, we may be unable to license or acquire suitable product candidates or products from third parties for a number of reasons. In particular, the licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products is competitive. A number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources or greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. Other factors that may prevent us from licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable product candidates or approved products include the following: • we may be unable to license or acquire the relevant technology on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return from the product; • companies that perceive us as a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license their product rights to us; • we may be unable to identify suitable products or product candidates within our areas of expertise; and • we may have inadequate cash resources or may be unable to access public or private financing to obtain rights to suitable products or product candidates from third parties. If we are unable to develop suitable potential product candidates through our preclinical studies, sponsored research programs or by obtaining rights from third parties, we will not be able to increase our revenues in future periods, which could result in significant harm to our financial position and adversely impact our stock price. We face substantial competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, ZYFLO CR, PERFOROMIST and our product candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. The development and commercialization of new drugs is highly competitive. We will face competition with respect to the development of product candidates and for ZYFLO CR and any other products that we commercialize in the future from pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, companies selling low-cost generic substitutes, academic institutions, government agencies or research institutions. A number of large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies currently market and sell products to treat asthma that compete with ZYFLO CR. Many established therapies currently command large market shares in the asthma market, including Merck & Co., Inc.’s Singulair®, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Advair® and 32 Table of Contents inhaled corticosteroid products. In addition, we may face competition from pharmaceutical companies seeking to develop new drugs for the asthma market. For example, in June 2007, AstraZeneca commercially launched in the United States Symbicort®, a twice-daily asthma therapy combining budesonide, an inhaled corticosteroid, and formoterol, a long-acting beta2-agonist. In the COPD market, PERFOROMIST and zileuton, if we are able to develop it as a treatment for COPD, will face intense competition. COPD patients are currently treated primarily with a number of medications that are indicated for COPD, asthma, or both COPD and asthma. The primary products used to treat COPD are anticholinergics, long-acting beta-agonists and combination long-acting beta-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids. These medications are delivered in various device formulations, including metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers and by nebulization. Lung reduction surgery is also an option for COPD patients. Many therapies for COPD are already well established in the respiratory marketplace, including GlaxoSmithKline’s Advair® and Serevent® and Spiriva®, a once-daily muscarinic antagonist from Boehringer Ingleheim GmbH and Pfizer. In April 2007, Sepracor began marketing a direct competitor to PERFOROMIST called Brovana®. Brovana is an isomer of formoterol that is delivered in a nebulized formulation. DEY has sued Sepracor for infringement of DEY’s patents, and Sepracor has counterclaimed. Other novel approaches are also in development. We are also developing an injectable formulation of zileuton, or zileuton injection, for use in the hospital emergency department for the treatment of acute asthma attacks. We may face intense competition from companies seeking to develop new drugs for use in severe acute asthma attacks. For example, Merck & Co., Inc. is conducting clinical trials of an intravenous formulation of its product Singulair®. If our therapeutic programs directed toward the body’s inflammatory response result in commercial products, such products will compete predominantly with therapies that have been approved for diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, like Amgen, Inc.’s Enbrel®, Johnson & Johnson’s Remicade®, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company’s Orencia®, Abbott Laboratories’ Humira® and Rituxan® marketed by Biogen Idec Inc. and Genentech, Inc., and diseases such as sepsis, like Eli Lilly and Company’s Xigris®. Other companies are developing therapies directed towards cytokines. We do not know whether any or all of these products under development will ever reach the market and if they do, whether they will do so before or after our products are approved. Our competitors’ products may be safer, more effective, more convenient or more effectively marketed and sold, than any of our products. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products; • more extensive experience than we have in conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • competing products that have already received regulatory approval or are in late-stage development; and • collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. We will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our products, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products, or obtain more effective patent protection, than we are able to. Accordingly, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we are able to, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our product candidates will achieve initial market acceptance and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our product candidates. Even if our product candidates achieve initial market acceptance, competitive products may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. If our product candidates are rendered obsolete, we may not be able to recover the expenses of developing and commercializing those product candidates. 33 Table of Contents If we are unable to retain key personnel and hire additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our goals. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management and commercial personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our executive management team. The loss of the services of any one or more of the members of our executive management team would diminish the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our research, development or commercialization objectives and could cause us to incur additional costs to recruit replacement executive personnel. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of the members of our executive management team. On March 2, 2008, Frank E. Thomas resigned as our President and Chief Executive Officer effective March 31, 2008 and as a member of our board of directors effective March 2, 2008. On March 4, 2008, we announced that our board of directors appointed Trevor Phillips, Ph.D. as President and Chief Executive Officer effective April 1, 2008 and elected Dr. Phillips as a member of our board of directors effective March 4, 2008. Dr. Phillips currently serves as our Chief Operating Officer and Senior Vice President of Operations. In addition to Dr. Phillips, we also depend, in particular, on the continuing services of Thomas P. Kelly, our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance and Corporate Development, and other members of our executive management team. Since June 1, 2006, we have experienced significant turnover on our executive management team, with five executive officers, including Mr. Thomas, leaving our company and one executive officer joining our company. If we are unsuccessful in transitioning our smaller executive management team to compensate for the loss of Mr. Thomas and these other executives, the achievement of our research, financial, development and commercialization objectives could be significantly delayed or may not occur. In addition, our focus on transitioning to our new management team could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. Furthermore, if we decide to recruit new executive personnel, we will incur additional costs. Recruiting and retaining qualified commercial personnel, in addition to our executive management team, will also be critical to our success. Any expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as clinical trials, governmental approvals, contract manufacturing and sales and marketing, will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. These demands may require us to hire additional personnel and will require our existing management personnel to develop additional expertise. We face intense competition for personnel. The failure to attract and retain personnel or to develop such expertise could delay or halt the research, development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We have experienced turnover in our sales and marketing team. For example, we have experienced an increase in the number of voluntary resignations of our sales and marketing personnel after we publicly announced in November 2007 that we are in the process of reviewing a range of strategic alternatives that could result in potential changes to our current business strategy and future operations. If we are not successful in our efforts to retain qualified sales and marketing personnel, our ability to market and sell ZYFLO CR and our ability to deliver our required level of promotional detailing under our co-promotion agreements with DEY would be impaired. We have also experienced turnover on our board of directors. For example, we have had eight directors leave our board and three directors join our board since June 1, 2006. We currently have four directors serving on our board. If our board were to fail to satisfy the requirements of relevant rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and The NASDAQ Stock Market, relating to director independence or membership on board committees, this could result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market or could adversely affect investors’ confidence in our company and our ability to access the capital markets. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified directors, the achievement of our corporate objectives could be significantly delayed or may not occur. 34 Table of Contents We identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting for the second quarter and third quarter of 2007. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we could face difficulties in preparing timely and accurate financial reports, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our reported results and a decline in our stock price. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the second quarter of 2007, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as discussed in Item 9A of this annual report on Form 10-K and as previously reported in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of either June 30, 2007 or September 30, 2007. We implemented steps to remedy the material weakness and our management provided an unqualified assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2007. Any failure or difficulties in maintaining these procedures and controls could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in our inability to prevent or detect material misstatements in our financial statements. It is possible that our management may not be able to provide an unqualified assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures in the future, or be able to provide quarterly certifications that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective. It is also possible that we may identify additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any material weakness, or any remediation thereof that is ultimately unsuccessful, could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, lead to a decline in our stock price and restrict our ability to raise additional funds needed for the growth of our business. We will spend considerable time and money complying with Federal and state laws and regulations, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We are subject to extensive regulation by Federal and state governments. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our business include, but are not limited to, the following: • Federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws, which prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under Federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • other Medicare laws and regulations that establish the requirements for coverage and payment for our products, including the amount of such payments; • the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; • the Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors and, further, requires us to comply with standards regarding privacy and security of individually identifiable health information and conduct certain electronic transactions using standardized code sets; • the Federal False Statements statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; • the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which regulates development, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of prescription drugs and medical devices; • the Federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, which regulates the distribution of drug samples to physicians and other prescribers who are authorized under state law to receive and dispense drug samples; • state and foreign law equivalents of the foregoing; 35 Table of Contents • state food and drug laws, pharmacy acts and state pharmacy board regulations, which govern the sale, distribution, use, administration and prescribing of prescription drugs; and • state laws that prohibit practice of medicine by non-physicians and fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians, as well as state law equivalents to the Federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items or services. On January 1, 2006, we became a participant in the Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended, effective in 1993. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of our product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law. We are also required to pay certain statutorily defined rebates on Medicaid purchases for reimbursement on prescription drugs under state Medicaid plans. Both the Federal government and state governments have initiated investigations into the rebate practices of many pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with these rebate programs. Any investigation of our rebate practices could be costly, could divert the attention of our management and could damage our reputation. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other laws or governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. In addition, if we are required to obtain permits or licenses under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims of a violation. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. If our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA. For example, we received a warning letter from the FDA in November 2005 relating to certain promotional material that included an illustration of the mechanism of action for ZYFLO. The FDA asserted that the promotional material incorporating the illustration was false or misleading because it presented efficacy claims for ZYFLO, but failed to contain fair balance by not communicating the risks associated with its use and failing to present the approved indication for ZYFLO. In response to the warning letter, and as requested by the FDA, we stopped disseminating the promotional material containing the mechanism of action and we provided a written response to the FDA. As part of our response, we provided a description of our plan to disseminate corrective messages about the promotional material to those who received this material. We revised the promotional material containing the mechanism of action to address the FDA’s concerns regarding fair balance. If our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we could be subject to additional regulatory actions by the FDA, including product seizure, injunctions, and other penalties and our reputation and the reputation of ZYFLO CR in the market could be harmed. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from operating our business and damage our reputation or our brands. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change or discontinue our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. State pharmaceutical marketing and promotional compliance and reporting requirements may expose us to regulatory and legal action by state governments or other government authorities. In recent years, several states, including California, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Vermont and West Virginia, as well as the District of Columbia have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical 36 Table of Contents companies to establish marketing and promotional compliance programs and file periodic reports with the state on sales, marketing, pricing, reporting pricing and other activities. For example, a California statute effective July 1, 2005 requires pharmaceutical companies to adopt and post on their public web site a comprehensive compliance program that complies with the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals and the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers. In addition, such compliance program must establish a specific annual dollar limit on gifts or other items given to individual healthcare professionals in California. Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico, Nevada, Vermont, West Virginia and the District of Columbia have also enacted statutes of varying scope that impose reporting and disclosure requirements upon pharmaceutical companies pertaining to drug pricing and payments and costs associated with pharmaceutical marketing, advertising and promotional activities, as well as restrictions upon the types of gifts that may be provided to healthcare practitioners. Similar legislation is being considered in a number of other states. Many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and available guidance is limited. We are in the process of identifying the universe of state laws applicable to pharmaceutical companies and are taking steps to ensure that we come into compliance with all such laws. Unless and until we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could materially harm our business. Recently enacted legislation may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and to produce, market and distribute our existing products. On September 27, 2007, President Bush signed into law the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or the FDAAA. The FDAAA grants a variety of new powers to the FDA, many of which are aimed at assuring drug safety and monitoring the safety of drug products after approval. Under the FDAAA, companies that violate the new law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties. While we expect the FDAAA to have a substantial effect on the pharmaceutical industry, the extent of that effect is not yet known. As the FDA issues regulations, guidance and interpretations relating to the new legislation, the impact on the industry, as well as our business, will become more clear. The new requirements and other changes that the FDAAA imposes may make it more difficult, and likely more costly, to obtain approval of new pharmaceutical products and to produce, market and distribute existing products. Our corporate compliance and corporate governance programs cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, marketing, sales and reimbursement of ZYFLO CR and our other product candidates, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by Federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We are a relatively small company and had approximately 80 employees as of December 31, 2007. We rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented and changing regulatory requirements, it is possible that we may not be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including significant fines, litigation or other sanctions. Any action against us for a violation of these regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention and harm our reputation. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to significant legal and regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations, some of which have either only recently become applicable to us or are subject to change. For example, we are incurring additional expenses and devoting significant management time and attention to evaluating our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If the controls and procedures that we have implemented do not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and The 37 Table of Contents NASDAQ Stock Market, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or The NASDAQ Stock Market. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in our company and our ability to access the capital markets and could result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market. If we fail to develop and maintain adequate controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner, which could cause a decline in our stock price. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. Our sales of ZYFLO CR are, and any future sales of our product candidates will be, dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and Federal governments, under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. There have been, there are and we expect there will continue to be, state and Federal legislative and administrative proposals that could limit the amount that state or Federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of pharmaceutical and biologic products. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, was signed into law in December 2003. Legislative or administrative acts that reduce reimbursement for our products could adversely impact our business. In addition, we believe that private insurers, such as MCOs, may adopt their own reimbursement reductions in response to legislation. Any reduction in reimbursement for our products could materially harm our results of operations. In addition, we believe that the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact our product sales. Furthermore, when a new drug product is approved, governmental and private reimbursement for that product, and the amount for which that product will be reimbursed, are uncertain. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our product candidates, including ZYFLO CR, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. The MMA established a prescription drug benefit that became effective in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. We cannot be certain that ZYFLO CR, or any of our product candidates still in development, will be included in the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Even if our products are included, the MCOs, health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, preferred provider organizations, or PPOs, and private health plans that administer the Medicare drug benefit have the ability to negotiate price and demand discounts from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. On the other hand, the drug benefit may increase the volume of pharmaceutical drug purchases, offsetting at least in part these potential price discounts. In addition, MCOs, HMOs, PPOs, healthcare institutions and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. Because MCOs, HMOs and PPOs and private health plans will administer the Medicare drug benefit, managed care and private health plans will influence prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population. In addition, certain states have proposed and certain other states have adopted various programs to control prices for senior citizen and drug programs for people with low incomes, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, restrictions on access to certain products, and bulk purchasing of drugs. If we succeed in bringing products in addition to ZYFLO CR to the market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our product candidates on a competitive basis to a sufficient patient population. Because our product candidates are in the development stage, we are unable at this time to determine the cost-effectiveness of these product candidates. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic trials in order to demonstrate their cost-effectiveness. Sales of prescription drugs are highly dependent on the availability and level of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. These third-party payors frequently require that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts or rebates from list prices, and third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products. Because our product candidates are in the development stage, we do not know the level of reimbursement, if any, we will receive for those product candidates if they are successfully developed. If the reimbursement we receive for any of our product candidates is inadequate in light of our development and 38 Table of Contents other costs, our ability to realize profits from the affected product candidate would be limited. If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim against us could interfere with the development and commercialization of our product candidates or subject us to unanticipated damages or settlement amounts. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing and sale of drugs. If the use of ZYFLO CR, ZYFLO or one or more of our other product candidates harms people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. We currently have a $20.0 million annual aggregate limit for insurance covering both product liability claims for ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO and clinical trial liability claims for our product candidates. We may seek additional product liability insurance prior to marketing any of our other product candidates still in development. However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, product liability and clinical trial insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage, obtain additional insurance or obtain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that we have not anticipated in our business plans. Any product liability claim against us, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention and harm our reputation. Risks Relating to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates If we do not obtain the regulatory approvals or clearances required to market and sell our product candidates under development, our business may be unsuccessful. Neither we nor any of our collaborators may market any of our products or our product candidates under development in the United States, Europe or in any other country without marketing approval from the FDA or the equivalent foreign regulatory agency. ZYFLO CR is currently our only commercial product and can only be marketed in the United States. The regulatory process to obtain market approval or clearance for a new drug or biologic takes many years, requires expenditures of substantial resources, is uncertain and is subject to unanticipated delays. We have had only limited experience in preparing applications and obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances. Adverse side effects of a product candidate in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities refusing to approve or clear a particular product candidate for any or all indications for use. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the drug approval process and can deny, delay or limit approval of a product candidate for a variety of reasons. If we do not receive the required regulatory approval or clearance to market any of our product candidates under development, our ability to generate product revenue and achieve profitability, our reputation and our ability to raise additional capital will be materially impaired. If clinical trials for our product candidates are not successful, we may not be able to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize these product candidates successfully. Our product candidates are still in development and remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval or clearance. In order to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we and our collaborators will be required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. We may not be able to obtain authority from the FDA, institutional review boards or other regulatory agencies to commence or complete these clinical trials. If permitted, such clinical testing may not prove that our product candidates are safe and effective to the extent necessary to permit us to obtain marketing approvals or clearances from regulatory authorities. One or 39 Table of Contents more of our product candidates may not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans, may cause harmful side effects or have other unexpected characteristics that may delay or preclude submission and regulatory approval or clearance or limit commercial use if approved or cleared. Furthermore, we, one of our collaborators, institutional review boards, or regulatory agencies may hold, suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if it is believed that the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. For example, in March 2006, we announced that we had discontinued a Phase II clinical trial of ethyl pyruvate, which we refer to as CTI-01, a small molecule product candidate that we had been developing for prevention of complications that can occur in patients after cardiopulmonary bypass, a procedure commonly performed during heart surgery. After reviewing the final data from the trial, we decided to discontinue further development of CTI-01. We subsequently terminated, effective in February 2007, the license agreements between us and the University of Pittsburgh and Xanthus Pharmaceuticals, Inc., formerly Phenome Sciences, Inc., related to patent rights related to CTI-01 controlled by University of Pittsburgh and Xanthus. Preclinical testing and clinical trials of new drug and biologic candidates are lengthy and expensive and the historical failure rate for such candidates is high. We may not be able to advance any more product candidates into clinical trials. Even if we do successfully enter into clinical trials, the results from preclinical testing of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. In addition, positive results demonstrated in preclinical studies and clinical trials that we complete may not be indicative of results obtained in additional clinical trials. Clinical trials may take several years to complete, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our product candidates could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, result in increased costs and significantly delay the submission for marketing approval or clearance for such product candidates with the FDA or other regulatory authorities or result in a submission or approval for a narrower indication. If clinical trials fail, our product candidates would not become commercially viable. If clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed, we would be unable to commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay the receipt of any revenues from product sales. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause regulatory authorities, institutional review boards or us to delay or suspend those clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays or the inability to obtain required approvals from institutional review boards or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling patients and volunteers into clinical trials; • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients and volunteers in clinical trials; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive or negative results or poorly executed testing; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • unfavorable FDA inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; 40 Table of Contents • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in ongoing or past clinical trials for the same or a different indication; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects observed during ongoing or past preclinical studies; or • the placement of a clinical hold on a trial. Our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the seasonality of the disease, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, competing trials with other product candidates and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials and thereby impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. Delays in patient enrollment and the related increase in costs also could cause us to decide to discontinue a clinical trial prior to completion of the trial. For example, in March 2008, we discontinued our Phase IV clinical trial for ZYFLO CR designed to generate data in the current patient treatment setting because of patient enrollment that was significantly slower than we had anticipated. We initiated the trial in July 2007 and had enrolled only approximately 25% of the patients prior to discontinuing the trial. We had planned to use data from this trial to support ZYFLO CR’s market position and we may have increased difficulty promoting ZYFLO CR to physicians without this data. We expect to rely on academic institutions and clinical research organizations to supervise or monitor some or all aspects of the clinical trials for the product candidates we advance into clinical testing. Accordingly, we have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. As a result of these factors, we or third parties on whom we rely may not successfully begin or complete our clinical trials in the time periods we have forecasted, if at all. If the results of our ongoing or planned clinical trials for our product candidates are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delay in the analysis of data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials, we may be unable to submit for regulatory approval or clearance or conduct additional clinical trials on the schedule we currently anticipate. If clinical trials are delayed, the commercial viability of our product candidates may be reduced. If we incur costs and delays in our programs, or if we do not successfully develop and commercialize our products, our future operating and financial results will be materially affected. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals or clearances, our products and product candidates will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and applicable foreign regulations, we could lose permission to manufacture and distribute our products and the sale of our product candidates could be suspended. Our products and product candidates are subject to continuing regulatory review after approval, including the review of spontaneous adverse drug experiences and clinical results from any post-market testing required as a condition of approval that are reported after our product candidates become commercially available. The manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities we use to make ZYFLO CR, tablet cores and API and any of our product candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Our product promotion and advertising will also be subject to regulatory requirements and continuing FDA review. As part of the approval of the NDA for ZYFLO CR in May 2007, the FDA required us to conduct a pediatric clinical trial of ZYFLO CR as a post-approval commitment and report the results to the FDA by June 2010. If we do not successfully begin and complete this clinical trial in the time required by the FDA, our ability to market and sell ZYFLO CR may be hindered, and our business may be harmed as a result. 41 Table of Contents Numerous proposals have been made in recent months and years to impose new requirements on drug approvals, expand post-approval requirements, and restrict sales and promotional activities. For example, a new drug application, or NDA, requires that an applicant submit risk evaluation and minimization plans to monitor and address potential safety issues for products upon approval, and federal legislation has been proposed that would require all new drug applicants to submit risk evaluation and minimization plans to monitor and address potential safety issues for products upon approval, grant the FDA the authority to impose risk management measures for marketed products and to mandate labeling changes in certain circumstances, and establish new requirements for disclosing the results of clinical trials. Additional measures have also been proposed to address perceived shortcomings in the FDA’s handling of drug safety issues, and to limit pharmaceutical company sales and promotional practices that some see as excessive or improper. If these or other legal or regulatory changes are enacted, it may become more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain extended or new product approvals, and our current approvals may be restricted or subject to onerous post-approval requirements. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. The ability of us or our partners to commercialize approved products successfully may be hindered, and our business may be harmed as a result. If we or our third-party manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our product candidates and may harm our reputation. If we or our third-party manufacturers or service providers fail to comply with applicable Federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could adversely affect our ability to develop, market and sell our product candidates successfully and could harm our reputation and hinder market acceptance of our product candidates. These enforcement actions include: • product seizures; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • suspension of review or refusal to approve pending applications; • voluntary or mandatory patient or physician notification; • withdrawal of product approvals; • restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing our product candidates; • restrictions on applying for or obtaining government bids; • fines; • restrictions on importation of our product candidates; • injunctions; and • civil and criminal penalties. Risks Relating to Our Dependence on Third Parties We depend on DEY to jointly promote and market ZYFLO CR. This co-promotion arrangement may not be successful. We are relying on DEY to jointly promote and market ZYFLO CR. ZYFLO CR is our only commercially marketed product. Our ability to generate meaningful near-term revenues from product sales is substantially dependent on the success of our co-promotion arrangement with DEY. DEY initiated promotional detailing activities for ZYFLO CR in September 2007 after initiating promotional detailing for ZYFLO in April 2007. We cannot predict if DEY’s promotional detailing activities will have a meaningful impact on our revenues from ZYFLO CR. 42 Table of Contents After September 27, 2010, DEY may terminate the co-promotion agreement with six-months, advance written notice. In addition, DEY has the right to terminate the co-promotion agreement with two-months, prior written notice if ZYFLO CR cumulative net sales for any four consecutive calendar quarters after commercial launch of ZYFLO CR are less than $25 million. Each party has the right to terminate the co-promotion agreement upon the occurrence of a material uncured breach by the other party. Both we and DEY have agreed to use diligent efforts to promote the applicable products in the United States during the term of the co-promotion agreement. In particular, both we and DEY have agreed to provide a minimum number of details per month for ZYFLO CR. We also rely on DEY to provide the support of its managed care group to negotiate contracts and engage in other activities with third-party payors for favorable managed care access. This managed care support includes advice and logistical support to us regarding our managed care strategy. If DEY were to terminate or breach the co-promotion agreement, and we were unable to enter into a similar co-promotion agreement with another qualified party in a timely manner or devote sufficient financial resources or capabilities to independently promoting and marketing ZYFLO CR, our sales of ZYFLO CR would be limited and we would not be able to generate significant revenues from product sales. In addition, DEY may choose not to devote time, effort or resources to the promotion and marketing of ZYFLO CR beyond the minimum required by the terms of the co-promotion agreement. DEY is a subsidiary of Mylan Inc. Mylan acquired DEY in October 2007 as part of its acquisition of Merck KGaA’s generic business, of which DEY was a part. We cannot predict what impact Mylan’s acquisition of DEY may have on our co-promotion arrangement with DEY. For example, in February 2008, Mylan announced that it is pursuing strategic alternatives for DEY, including the potential sale of the business. Any decision by DEY or Mylan not to devote sufficient resources to the co-promotion arrangement or any future reduction in efforts under the co-promotion arrangement, including as a result of the sale or potential sale of DEY by Mylan, would limit our ability to generate significant revenues from product sales. Furthermore, if DEY does not have sufficient sales capabilities, as a result of difficulty retaining or hiring sales representatives following Mylan’s announcement that it is pursuing strategic alternatives for DEY or otherwise, then DEY may not be able to meet its minimum detailing obligations under the co-promotion agreement. We depend on MedImmune and Beckman Coulter and expect to depend on additional collaborators in the future for a portion of our revenues and to develop, conduct clinical trials with, obtain regulatory approvals for, and manufacture, market and sell some of our product candidates. These collaborations may not be successful. We are relying on MedImmune, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of AstraZeneca PLC, to fund the development of and to commercialize product candidates in our HMGB1 program. We are relying on Beckman Coulter to fund the development and to commercialize diagnostics in our HMGB1 program. All of our revenues prior to October 2005, when we commercially launched ZYFLO, were derived from our collaboration agreements with MedImmune and Beckman Coulter. Additional payments due to us under the collaboration agreements with MedImmune and Beckman Coulter are generally based on our achievement of specific development and commercialization milestones that we may not meet. In addition, the collaboration agreements entitle us to royalty payments that are based on the sales of products developed and marketed through the collaborations. These future royalty payments may not materialize or may be less than expected if the related products are not successfully developed or marketed or if we are forced to license intellectual property from third parties. Accordingly, we cannot predict if our collaborations with MedImmune and Beckman Coulter will continue to generate revenues for us. Our collaboration agreement with MedImmune generally is terminable by MedImmune at any time upon six-months’ notice or upon our material uncured breach of the agreement. Under the collaboration agreement, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable, good faith efforts to conduct the collaboration in accordance with rolling three-year research plans that describe and allocate between MedImmune and us responsibility for, among other things, the proposed research, preclinical studies, toxicology formulation activities and clinical studies for that time period. In addition, we and MedImmune agreed to work exclusively in the development and commercialization of HMGB1-inhibiting products for a period of four years, and, after such time, we have agreed to work exclusively with MedImmune in the development of HMGB1-inhibiting 43 Table of Contents products for the remaining term of the agreement. If MedImmune were to terminate or breach our arrangement, and we were unable to enter into a similar collaboration agreement with another qualified third party in a timely manner or devote sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization on our own, the development and commercialization of our HMGB1 program likely would be delayed, curtailed or terminated. The delay, curtailment or termination of our HMGB1 program could significantly harm our future prospects. Our license agreement with Beckman Coulter generally is terminable by Beckman Coulter on 90-days’ written notice. Each party has the right to terminate the license agreement upon the occurrence of a material uncured breach by the other party. If Beckman Coulter were to terminate or breach our arrangement, and we were unable to enter into a similar agreement with another qualified third party in a timely manner or devote sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization on our own, the development and commercialization of a diagnostic based on the detection of HMGB1 likely would be delayed, curtailed or terminated. In addition, our collaborations with MedImmune and Beckman Coulter and any future collaborative arrangements that we enter into with third parties may not be scientifically or commercially successful. Factors that may affect the success of our collaborations include the following: • our collaborators may be pursuing alternative technologies or developing alternative products, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that may be competitive with the product on which they are collaborating with us or that could affect our collaborators’ commitment to us; • reductions in marketing or sales efforts or a discontinuation of marketing or sales of our products by our collaborators would reduce our revenues, which we expect will be based on a percentage of net sales by collaborators; • our collaborators may terminate their collaborations with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities; • our collaborators may not devote sufficient time and resources to any collaboration with us, which could prevent us from realizing the potential commercial benefits of that collaboration; and • our collaborators may pursue higher priority programs or change the focus of their development programs, which could affect their commitments to us. In June 2007, AstraZeneca PLC completed its acquisition of MedImmune and MedImmune became a wholly-owned subsidiary of AstraZeneca. We cannot predict what impact this transaction may have on our HMGB1 collaboration with MedImmune. If MedImmune does not devote sufficient time and resources to our collaboration or changes the focus of its programs, it could delay or prevent the achievement of clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones and prevent us from realizing the potential commercial benefits of the collaboration. We intend to enter into collaboration agreements with other parties in the future that relate to our other product candidates, and we are likely to have similar risks with regard to any such future collaborations. IMI may not be successful in developing a product under the patent rights and know-how that we licensed to IMI relating to the mechanical and electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve. We have licensed to Innovative Metabolics, Inc., or IMI, patent rights and know-how relating to the mechanical and electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve. IMI is an early-stage company. We are not involved in IMI’s efforts to develop and commercialize a medical device based on the intellectual property that we licensed to IMI. We will receive additional payments under the IMI license only if IMI is successful in achieving full regulatory approval of such a device or receives a royalty, fee or other payment from a third party in connection with a sublicense of its rights under our license agreement. 44 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to manufacture and supply the zileuton API, ZYFLO CR and our product candidates. We expect to continue to rely on these sole source suppliers for these purposes and would incur significant costs to independently develop manufacturing facilities. We have no manufacturing facilities and limited manufacturing experience. In order to continue to commercialize ZYFLO CR, develop product candidates, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates, we need to develop, contract for or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. We expect to continue to rely on third parties for production of the zileuton API, commercial supplies of ZYFLO CR and preclinical and clinical supplies of our product candidates. These third parties are currently our sole source suppliers, and we expect to continue to rely on them for these purposes for the foreseeable future. We have contracted with Shasun Pharma Solutions Ltd. for commercial production of the zileuton API, subject to specified limitations, through December 31, 2010. Zileuton API is used in our FDA-approved oral zileuton product, ZYFLO CR, as well as in our zileuton injection product candidate. Our only source of supply for zileuton API is Shasun, which manufactures the zileuton API in the United Kingdom. The manufacturing process for the zileuton API involves an exothermic reaction that generates heat and, if not properly controlled by the safety and protection mechanisms in place at the manufacturing sites, could result in unintended combustion of the product. The manufacture of the zileuton API could be disrupted or delayed if a batch is discontinued or damaged, if the manufacturing sites are damaged, or if local health and safety regulations require a third-party manufacturer to implement additional safety procedures or cease production. In addition, there is only one qualified supplier of a chemical known as 2-ABT, which is one of the starting materials for zileuton, and if that manufacturer stops manufacturing 2-ABT, is unable to manufacture 2-ABT or is unwilling to manufacture 2-ABT on commercially reasonable terms or at all, Shasun may be unable to manufacture API for us. We have contracted with SkyePharma PLC, through its subsidiary Jagotec AG, for the manufacture of core tablets for ZYFLO CR for commercial sale. Our only source of supply for the core tablets of ZYFLO CR is SkyePharma, which manufactures them in France. The manufacture of the core tablets for ZYFLO CR could be disrupted or delayed if one or more batches are discontinued or damaged or if the manufacturing site were damaged or destroyed. In January 2007, following a decision to concentrate on oral and pulmonary products, SkyePharma announced that it had reached an agreement for the sale of its injectable business. If SkyePharma sells all or a part of its remaining business or the manufacturing site for the core tablets of ZYFLO CR, our ability to produce ZYFLO CR may be impaired. We have contracted with Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc. to coat and package the core tablets of ZYFLO CR for commercial supplies. Patheon is currently our only source of finished ZYFLO CR tablets. The manufacture of the finished ZYFLO CR tablets could be disrupted or delayed if one or more batches are discontinued or damaged or if the manufacturing site were damaged or destroyed. We are dependent upon Shasun, Patheon and SkyePharma as sole providers, and will be dependent on any other third parties who manufacture our product candidates, to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable government regulations. For example, during the quarter ended March 31, 2008, one of our contract manufacturers failed to meet our manufacturing specifications relating to certain manufacturing batches of ZYFLO CR. If third-party manufacturers with whom we contract fail to perform their obligations, we may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including the following: • we may not be able to meet commercial demands for ZYFLO CR; • we may be required to cease distribution or issue recalls; • we may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of our product candidates that are under development; and • we may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for our product candidates. If Shasun, Patheon or SkyePharma experiences any significant difficulties in their respective manufacturing processes for our products including the zileuton API, ZYFLO CR core tablets or finished 45 Table of Contents product for ZYFLO CR, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of ZYFLO CR. Our inability to coordinate the efforts of our third-party manufacturing partners, or the lack of capacity or the scheduling of manufacturing sufficient for our needs at our third-party manufacturing partners, could impair our ability to supply ZYFLO CR at required levels. Such an interruption could cause us to incur substantial costs and impair our ability to generate revenue from ZYFLO CR may be adversely affected. The zileuton API is manufactured in United Kingdom by Shasun, and we either store the zileuton API at a Shasun warehouse, ship the zileuton API either directly to a contract manufacturer or to a third-party warehouse. For the manufacture of ZYFLO CR, we ship zileuton API to France for manufacturing of core tablets by SkyePharma and we ship core tablets from France to the United States to be coated, packaged and labeled at Patheon. While in transit, our zileuton API and ZYFLO CR core tablets, each shipment of which is of significant value, could be lost or damaged. Moreover, at any time after shipment from Shasun, our zileuton API, which is stored in the United States at Patheon or at third-party warehouse, or our ZYFLO CR core tablets, which are stored at Patheon prior to coating and packaging, and our finished ZYFLO CR products, which are stored at our third-party logistics provider, Integrated Commercialization Solutions, Inc., or ICS, could be lost or suffer damage, which would render them unusable. We have attempted to take appropriate risk mitigation steps and to obtain transit insurance. However, depending on when in the process the zileuton API, ZYFLO CR core tablets or finished product is lost or damaged, we may have limited recourse for recovery against our manufacturers or insurers. As a result, our financial performance could be impacted by any such loss or damage to our zileuton API, ZYFLO CR core tablets or finished product. We may not be able to enter into alternative supply arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. If we were required to change manufacturers for the zileuton API or ZYFLO CR tablet cores or coating, we would be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and all applicable regulations and guidelines, including FDA requirements and approved NDA product specifications. In addition, we would be required to conduct additional clinical bioequivalence trials to demonstrate that ZYFLO CR manufactured by the new manufacturer is equivalent to ZYFLO CR manufactured by our current manufacturer. Any delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer or conducting additional clinical bioequivalence trials could adversely affect our production schedule or increase our production costs. We have not secured a long-term commercial supply arrangement for any of our product candidates other than the zileuton API. The manufacturing process for our product candidates is an element of the FDA approval process. We will need to contract with manufacturers who can meet the FDA requirements, including current Good Manufacturing Practices, on an ongoing basis. In addition, if we receive the necessary regulatory approval for our product candidates, we also expect to rely on third parties, including our collaborators, to produce materials required for commercial production. We may experience difficulty in obtaining adequate manufacturing capacity or timing for our needs. If we are unable to obtain or maintain contract manufacturing of these product candidates, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to develop and commercialize our product candidates successfully. Any failure to manage and maintain our distribution network could compromise sales of ZYFLO CR and harm our business. We rely on third parties to distribute ZYFLO CR to pharmacies. We have contracted with ICS, a third-party logistics company, to warehouse and distribute ZYFLO CR to three primary wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health and McKesson Corporation, and a number of smaller wholesalers. ICS is our exclusive supplier of commercial distribution logistics services. The wholesalers in turn distribute to chain and independent pharmacies. Sales to AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health and McKesson Corporation collectively accounted for at least 95% of our annual billings for ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO during 2007. The loss of any of these wholesaler customers’ accounts or a material reduction in their purchases could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on Phoenix Marketing Group LLC to distribute product samples to our sales representatives, who in turn distribute samples to physicians and other prescribers who are authorized under state law to receive 46 Table of Contents and dispense samples. We rely on RxHope to administer our patient assistance program and to distribute samples of ZYFLO CR to physicians and other prescribers who are authorized under state law to receive and dispense samples. This distribution network requires significant coordination with our supply chain, sales and marketing and finance organizations. Failure to maintain our contracts with ICS, the wholesalers, Phoenix and RxHope, or the inability or failure of any of them to adequately perform as agreed under their respective contracts with us, could negatively impact us. We do not have our own warehouse or distribution capabilities, we lack the resources and experience to establish any of these functions and we do not intend to establish these functions in the foreseeable future. If we were unable to replace ICS, AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal, McKesson, Phoenix or RxHope in a timely manner in the event of a natural disaster, failure to meet FDA and other regulatory requirements, business failure, strike or any other difficulty affecting any of them, the distribution of ZYFLO CR could be delayed or interrupted, which would damage our results of operations and market position. Failure to coordinate financial systems could also negatively impact our ability to accurately report and forecast product sales and fulfill our regulatory obligations. If we are unable to effectively manage and maintain our distribution network, sales of ZYFLO CR could be severely compromised and our business could be harmed. If we are unable to enter into additional collaboration agreements, we may not be able to continue development of our product candidates. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses to be incurred in connection with these activities. We may seek to enter into additional collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to fund all or part of the costs of drug development and commercialization of product candidates. For example, we have determined to seek to enter into collaboration arrangements with respect to the development of our alpha-7 product candidates and our zileuton injection product candidate. We face, and will continue to face, significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaboration agreements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be able to enter into future collaboration agreements, and the terms of the collaboration agreements, if any, may not be favorable to us. If we are not successful in efforts to enter into a collaboration arrangement with respect to a product candidate, we may not have sufficient funds to develop any of our product candidates internally. If we do not have sufficient funds to develop our product candidates, we will not be able to bring these product candidates to market and generate revenue. In addition, our inability to enter into collaboration agreements could delay or preclude the development, manufacture and/or commercialization of a product candidate and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because: • we may be required to expend our own funds to advance the product candidate to commercialization; • revenue from product sales could be delayed; or • we may elect not to develop or commercialize the product candidate. We plan to rely significantly on third parties to market some product candidates, and these third parties may not successfully commercialize these product candidates. For product candidates with large target physician markets, we plan to rely significantly on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties. For example, we plan to rely on MedImmune for the commercialization of any anti-HMGB1 products that we develop, and we plan to rely on Beckman Coulter for the commercialization of any diagnostic assay for HMGB1. We may not be successful in entering into additional marketing arrangements in the future and, even if successful, we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, we may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties. If these third parties are not successful in commercializing the products covered by these arrangements, our future revenues may suffer. 47 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and Licenses If we or our licensors are not able to obtain and enforce patent and other intellectual property protection for our discoveries or discoveries we have in-licensed, our ability to prevent third parties from using our inventions and proprietary information will be limited and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary products, methods and technologies that we invent, develop or license under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. The composition of matter patent for zileuton in the United States will expire in December 2010. The patent for ZYFLO CR, which relates only to the controlled-release technology used to control the release of zileuton, will expire in June 2012. We are exploring strategies to extend and expand the patent protection for our zileuton products, but we may not be able to obtain additional patent protection. Because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date that will not be filed in foreign countries and for which a request for non-publication is filed, and because even patent applications for which no request for non-publication is made are not published until approximately 18 months after filing, third parties may have already filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over any such patent applications of others. There may also be prior art that may prevent allowance of our patent applications or enforcement of our or our licensors’ issued patents. Our patent strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. This process is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely or successful manner. Moreover, the mere issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable. As a result, even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. Our pending patent applications and those of our licensors may not result in issued patents. In addition, the patent positions of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others with respect to our products in the future. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to, or independently developed by a competitor, any competitive advantage that we may have had in the development or commercialization of our product candidates would be minimized or eliminated. Our confidentiality agreements with our current and potential collaborators, employees, consultants, strategic partners, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 48 Table of Contents Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. If we are unsuccessful in litigation or other adversarial proceedings concerning patents or patent applications, we may not be able to protect our products from competition or we may be precluded from selling our products. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in, or prevent us from, bringing products to market and harm our ability to operate. Our success will depend in part on our ability to uphold and enforce the patents or patent applications owned or co-owned by us or licensed to us that cover our products and product candidates. Litigation, interferences or other adversarial proceedings relating to our patents or patent applications could take place in the United States or foreign courts or in the United States or foreign patent offices or other administrative agencies. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications could result in adverse decisions regarding: • the patentability of our applications, including those relating to our products; or • the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents, including those relating to our products. These proceedings are costly and time consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions or to bring such actions to a successful conclusion. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial cost and divert time and attention of our management and scientific personnel in pursuit of these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If it is determined that we do infringe a patent right of another, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patent in court. In addition, if we are not successful in infringement litigation brought against us and we do not license or develop non-infringing technology, we may: • incur substantial monetary damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights; • encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market; or • be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our products or methods of treatment. If any parties should successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity. Moreover, any legal action against us or our collaborators claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected products and processes could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require us or our collaborators to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. Any such required license may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology or products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. In addition, our MedImmune collaboration provides that a portion of the royalties payable to us by MedImmune for licenses to our intellectual property may be offset by amounts paid by MedImmune to third parties who have competing or superior intellectual property positions in the relevant fields, which could result in significant reductions in our revenues. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. 49 Table of Contents We in-license a significant portion of our principal proprietary technologies, and if we fail to comply with our obligations under any of the related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary to develop and market our zileuton products, our HMGB1 products and some of our other product candidates. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary for our business. In fact, we acquired the rights to each of our product candidates under licenses with third parties. These licenses impose various development, commercialization, funding, royalty, diligence and other obligations on us. If we breach these obligations, our licensors may have the right to terminate the licenses or render the licenses non-exclusive, which would result in our being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology, or at least to do so on an exclusive basis. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing We have incurred losses since inception and we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. If we do not generate significant revenues, we will not be able to achieve profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses in each year since our inception in 2000. We had net losses of $37.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 and $48.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $191.4 million. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded $11.0 million of revenue from the sale of ZYFLO and ZYFLO CR and have not recorded revenue from any other product. We expect that we will continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future as we spend significant amounts to fund our research, development and commercialization efforts. We expect that the losses that we incur will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and that these fluctuations may be substantial. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability. Until we are able to generate such revenues, we will not be profitable and will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations. We will require substantial additional capital to fund our operations. If additional capital is not available, we may need to delay, limit or eliminate our development and commercialization processes. We expect to devote substantial resources to support ongoing sales and marketing efforts for ZYFLO CR and to fund the development of our other product candidates. Our funding requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: • the ongoing costs of marketing ZYFLO CR; • the scope, costs and results of our clinical trials on ZYFLO CR and zileuton injection; • the amount and timing of sales and returns of ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO; • the costs of ongoing sales, marketing and manufacturing activities for ZYFLO CR; • the time and costs involved in preparing, submitting, obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for our other product candidates; • the timing, receipt and amount of milestone and other payments, if any, from DEY, MedImmune, Beckman Coulter, IMI or future collaborators or licensees; • the timing, receipt and amount of sales and royalties, if any, from our product candidates; • continued progress in our research and development programs, as well as the magnitude of these programs, including milestone payments to third parties under our license agreements; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • the cost of obtaining and maintaining licenses to use patented technologies; • potential acquisition or in-licensing of other products or technologies; • our ability to establish and maintain additional collaborative or co-promotion arrangements; and 50 Table of Contents • the ongoing time and costs involved in corporate governance requirements, including work related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Other than payments that we receive from our collaborations with DEY and MedImmune, sales of ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO represent our only sources of cash flow and revenue. We believe that our ability to access external funds will depend upon market acceptance of ZYFLO CR, the success of our other preclinical and clinical development programs, the receptivity of the capital markets to financings by biopharmaceutical companies, our ability to enter into additional strategic collaborations with corporate and academic collaborators and the success of such collaborations. The extent of our future capital requirements is difficult to assess and will depend largely on our ability to successfully commercialize ZYFLO CR. Based on our current operating plans, we believe that our available cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash received from product sales and anticipated payments received under collaboration agreements will be sufficient to fund anticipated levels of operations into the second quarter of 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our net cash used for operating activities was $14.4 million, and we had minimal capital expenditures. If our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements or if we acquire or license rights to additional products or product candidates, we may need to raise additional external funds through collaborative arrangements and public or private financings. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the terms of the financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our then-existing stockholders will result. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly delay, limit or eliminate one or more of our research, development or commercialization programs, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products, which we would otherwise pursue on our own. As a result of our recurring losses from operations, accumulated deficit and our expectation that we will incur substantial additional operating costs for the foreseeable future, as discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern will require us to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. We have prepared our financial statements on the assumption that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. For example, our reserve for potential returns for ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO is based on our historical experience of product returns for ZYFLO and other factors that could significantly impact expected returns. We cannot assure you, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will be correct. If our estimates are inaccurate, this could adversely affect our stock price. 51 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price is subject to fluctuation, which may cause an investment in our stock to suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements. For example, NASDAQ rules require that we maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for our common stock. Between January 1, 2008 and March 20, 2008, the closing bid price per share of our common stock has ranged from $0.72 to $1.38. As of March 20, 2008, the closing bid price per share of our common stock was $0.72. If the closing bid price per share of our common stock falls below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, we could be subject to delisting. In addition, to retain our listing on The NASDAQ Global Market we must maintain either minimum stockholders’ equity of $10.0 million or an aggregate market value of our common stock of $50.0 million. We may not continue to meet the minimum bid price requirement under NASDAQ rules or the other applicable continued listing requirements for The NASDAQ Global Market. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market in the future and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock or transfer our listing from The NASDAQ Global Market to The NASDAQ Capital Market, a trading market for smaller companies, an active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained and the market price of our common stock could decline. If an active trading market for our common stock is not sustained, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell shares of our common stock without further depressing the market price of our common stock or at all. A delisting of our common stock also could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. If our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, this fluctuation may subject our stock price to volatility, which may cause an investment in our stock to suffer a decline in value. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. A number of factors, many of which are not within our control, could subject our operating results and stock price to volatility, including: • the amount and timing of sales of ZYFLO CR; • the timing of operating expenses, including selling and marketing expenses and the costs of maintaining a direct sales force; • the availability and timely delivery of a sufficient supply of ZYFLO CR; • the amount of rebates, discounts and chargebacks to wholesalers, Medicaid and managed care organizations related to ZYFLO CR; • the amount and timing of product returns for ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO; 52 Table of Contents • achievement of, or the failure to achieve, milestones under our development agreement with MedImmune, our license agreements with Beckman Coulter and IMI and, to the extent applicable, other licensing and collaboration agreement; • the results of ongoing and planned clinical trials of our product candidates; • production problems occurring at our third-party manufacturers; • the results of regulatory reviews relating to the development or approval of our product candidates; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures. Due to the possibility of significant fluctuations, we do not believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results will necessarily be indicative of our future operating performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock may decline. If significant business or product announcements by us or our competitors cause fluctuations in our stock price, an investment in our stock may suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility as a result of announcements by us or other companies in our industry, including our collaborators. Announcements that may subject the price of our common stock to substantial volatility include announcements regarding: • our operating results, including the amount and timing of sales of ZYFLO CR; • our licensing and collaboration agreements and the products or product candidates that are the subject of those agreements; • the results of discovery, preclinical studies and clinical trials by us or our competitors; • the acquisition of technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; • the development of new technologies, product candidates or products by us or our competitors; • regulatory actions with respect to our product candidates or products or those of our competitors; and • significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, including a transaction in which our stockholders could sell or exchange their shares for a premium. As of February 29, 2008, our directors, executive officers and 10% or greater stockholders, together with their affiliates, to our knowledge, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 24.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our directors, executive officers and 10% or greater stockholders, together with their affiliates, if acting together, may have the ability to affect the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. 53 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to change our management or our board and hinder efforts by a third party to acquire a controlling interest in us. We are incorporated in Delaware. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control more difficult, even if the stockholders desire a change in control. For example, anti-takeover provisions to which we are subject include provisions in our by-laws providing that stockholders’ meetings may be called only by our president or the majority of our board of directors and a provision in our certificate of incorporation providing that our stockholders may not take action by written consent. Additionally, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we issue. As a result, our issuance of preferred stock could cause the market value of our common stock to decline and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Delaware law also prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. The board may use this provision to prevent changes in our management. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 