ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The firm faces many risk factors, several of which are inherent to the financial services industry and the investment management business. Below are the risk factors that could materially affect the firm: • Our revenues decline when the value of the securities held by the mutual funds we manage declines. We derive all of our operating revenues from management fees and shareholder servicing fees paid to us by the mutual funds we manage. These fees are calculated as a percentage of the average daily net assets of our mutual funds and vary from fund to fund. The securities markets are inherently volatile and may be affected by factors beyond our control, including global economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, inflation rate increases and other factors that are difficult to predict. Volatility in the securities markets, and the equity markets in particular, has reduced the net assets of our mutual funds and consequently reduced our revenues, and could continue to do so in the future. This risk is further discussed and quantified in Item 7A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. • Investors in our mutual funds can redeem their investments at any time and for any reason, including poor investment performance. A decrease in net assets adversely affects our revenues. Fund investors may redeem their investments in any of our mutual funds at any time and for any reason without prior notice. Success in the investment management and mutual fund business is dependent on investment performance, as well as distribution and client servicing. If our mutual funds perform poorly compared to the mutual funds of other investment management firms, we may experience a decrease in purchases of shares of our mutual funds and an increase in redemptions of shares of our mutual funds. A decrease in the net assets of our mutual funds adversely affects our revenue. • Adverse opinions of our mutual funds by third party rating agencies or industry analysts could decrease new investments in or accelerate redemptions from our mutual funds, which adversely affects our revenues. Many investors rely heavily on the opinions of third party rating agencies and industry analysts when making decisions to purchase or redeem shares of mutual funds. Adverse opinions regarding our mutual funds could erode investor confidence, potentially leading to a decrease in new investments and an increase in redemptions, thereby reducing the net assets of our mutual funds and adversely affecting our revenue. • Investor behavior is influenced by short-term investment performance of mutual funds. Investor behavior may be based on many factors, including short-term investment performance. Poor short-term performance of our mutual funds, irrespective of longer-term success, could potentially lead to a decrease in new investments and an increase in redemptions, thereby reducing the net assets of our mutual funds and adversely affecting our revenue. • For our Hennessy Cornerstone Series of Funds, we utilize quantitative investment strategies that require us to invest in specific portfolios of securities and hold these positions for a specified period of time. Our Hennessy Cornerstone Series of Funds adhere to the investment strategies for each of our mutual funds during the annual rebalancing period and throughout the course of the year. Adhering to our investment strategies may result in the elimination of better performing assets from our funds’ portfolios and an increase in investments with relatively lower total return. Additionally, we will maintain a position in a relatively poorly performing security throughout the course of the portfolio holding period. Either of these actions could result in relatively lower performance of our mutual funds and adversely affect the net assets of our mutual funds. A decrease in the net assets of our mutual funds adversely affects our revenue. 16 Table of Contents • The Hennessy Select SPARX Japan Fund and the Hennessy Select SPARX Japan Smaller Companies Fund invest in the Japanese stock market in Yen. Since the assets are held in U.S. dollars, there is currency risk. The Hennessy Select SPARX Japan Fund and the Hennessy Select SPARX Japan Smaller Companies Fund are invested in Japanese securities and are sub-advised by the Tokyo-based (but U.S. registered) SPARX Asset Management Co., Ltd. The value of these funds fluctuates with changes in the value of the Japanese Yen versus the U.S. dollar. • We depend upon key personnel to manage our business. Their loss would adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and performance of key personnel, including Neil J. Hennessy, our Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Portfolio Manager and President; Teresa M. Nilsen, our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary; and Daniel B. Steadman, our Executive Vice President in charge of expansion and Chief Compliance Officer. The loss of such individuals or other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, in order to retain certain key personnel, we may be required to increase compensation to such individuals, resulting in additional expense. • Our business is extensively regulated and our failure to comply with regulatory requirements may harm our financial condition. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States, particularly by the SEC. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment advisor. The mutual fund industry has undergone increased scrutiny by the SEC and state regulators for the past several years, resulting in numerous enforcement actions, “sweep” examinations, and new rules and rule proposals. These actions have increased our costs in managing our mutual funds, and we could continue to experience higher costs if new rules and other regulatory actions or legislation require us to spend more time, hire additional personnel or buy new technology to comply with these rules and laws. The changes in laws or regulations could also have a material adverse effect on us by limiting the sources of our revenues and increasing our costs. Our business may be materially affected not only by securities regulations, but also by regulations of general application. For example, the amount of net assets in our mutual funds in a given time period could be affected by, among other things, existing and proposed tax legislation and other governmental regulations and policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Our management activities are also subject to contractual commitments and our mutual fund business involves compliance with numerous investment, asset valuation, distribution and tax requirements. Failure to adhere to these requirements could result in losses that a client could recover from us. We have installed procedures and utilize the services of experienced administrators, accountants and lawyers to assist in satisfying these requirements. However, there can be no assurance that these precautions will protect us from potential liabilities. • Breaches of security involving consumer personal data may adversely affect our business and financial condition. We and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information. A breach of the systems on which sensitive consumer information is stored or other unauthorized release of consumer information may adversely affect our reputation and lead to claims against us. 17 Table of Contents • Management contracts acquired by us are currently classified as an indefinite life asset subject to impairment analysis. The impairment analysis is based on subjective criteria, and an impairment loss could be recorded. The management contracts acquired by us, currently a $22.3 million asset on the balance sheet, are considered an intangible asset with an indefinite useful life. Management reviews the classification of the asset as ‘indefinite life’ each reporting period. If the contracts become an asset with a definite life, we would begin amortizing the contracts over their remaining useful life. If the contracts are determined to remain an indefinite life asset, we review the carrying value to determine if any impairment has occurred. The analysis is based on anticipated future cash flows, which are calculated based on assets under management. Although the contracts are not currently impaired, there is always a possibility of impairment in the future, which could require us to write-off all or a portion of the contracts. A write-off, depending on the amount, could have a significant impact on earnings per share. • Acquisitions involve inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as well as dilute the holdings of current shareholders. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue additional acquisitions of management agreements for other mutual funds. Future acquisitions of management agreements would be accompanied by risks including, among others: • inability to secure enough affirmative votes to gain approval from the target fund’s shareholders of a proposed acquisition; • the loss of mutual fund assets through redemptions by shareholders of newly acquired mutual funds; • higher than anticipated acquisition expenses; • the potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; and • dilution to our shareholders if the acquisition is made with our common stock. If one or more of these risks occur, we may be unable to successfully complete an acquisition of a management agreement, we may experience an impairment of management agreement valuations and we may not achieve the expected return on investment. Any of these results could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Our management and shareholder servicing agreements can be terminated on short notice and are subject to annual renewals. We generate all of our operating revenues from the management and shareholder servicing agreements covering our mutual funds. The agreements covering our mutual funds are terminable without penalty on 60 days notice and must be approved at least annually by a majority of each fund’s board of directors/trustees and a majority of the disinterested members of each fund’s board of directors/trustees. If any of these agreements are terminated or not renewed, our revenues would substantially decline. • We face intense competition in attracting investors and retaining net assets in our mutual funds. The investment management business is intensely competitive. We are considered a small investment management company, but must compete with a large number of global and U.S. investment advisors, commercial banks, brokerage firms, broker-dealers, insurance companies and other financial institutions for investors in our mutual funds. Many organizations are attempting to market to and service the same investors as we do, not only with mutual fund products and services, but also with a wide range of other financial products and services. Many of our competitors have greater marketing, financial, technical, research, distribution and other capabilities than we do and offer more product lines and services. If we are not able to attract investors and retain net assets in our mutual funds, our revenues could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. 18 Table of Contents • Assets invested through mutual fund supermarkets have a higher risk of redemption and are subject to changes in fee structures, which could reduce our revenues. The mutual fund assets held through mutual fund supermarkets, as opposed to assets directly invested in our mutual funds, can be more easily moved to investments in funds outside of our fund family. Mutual fund supermarkets are attractive to investors because of the ease of accessibility to a variety of funds, but this causes the investments to be more sensitive to fluctuations in performance, especially in the short-term. If we are not able to retain the investor assets held through mutual fund supermarkets, it will cause decreased net assets in our mutual funds; as a result, our revenues could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Mutual fund supermarkets provide services to their customers, but instead of charging their customers for these services, they charge us and our mutual funds. Fees paid to mutual fund supermarkets may increase in the future. Higher payments to mutual fund supermarkets by us or our mutual funds could increase our expenses or reduce our revenues by decreasing our assets under management, either of which could slow our growth. • Market pressure to lower our management fees could reduce our profit margin. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of the management fees we charge our mutual funds, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Historically, we have competed primarily on the performance of our mutual funds and not on the level of our management fees relative to those of our competitors. In recent years, however, there has been a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the investment management industry. In order for us to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to provide our mutual fund shareholders with investment returns and service that will encourage them to invest in the mutual funds that pay our fees. We cannot be assured that we will succeed in maintaining our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future business could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. • We may be required to forego all or a portion of our fees under our management agreements covering our mutual funds. The board of directors/trustees of each of our mutual funds must make certain findings regarding the reasonableness of our fees. We monitor ratios of expenses to average daily net assets and waive management fees that we would otherwise receive from, or reimburse expenses incurred by, our mutual funds if we believe that our expense ratios might lead fund investors to redeem their shares in our mutual funds in order to seek lower expense ratios with other fund managers. We currently waive our advisor fees or reimburse fund expenses to the extent necessary to maintain expense ratio limitations on the institutional share class of our funds. In the past, fees have only been waived based on contractual obligations. However, we regularly analyze the fees and has the right to waive fees at its discretion to compete with other mutual funds with lower expense ratios. Any decision to waive fees would not apply to previous periods, but would apply on a going forward basis. 19 Table of Contents • We depend on third party investment professionals and the distribution channels they utilize to market our mutual funds. Our ability to distribute our mutual funds is highly dependent on access to the retail distribution systems and client bases of third party investment professionals that also offer competing investment products. These investment professionals may reduce or eliminate their involvement in marketing our funds at any time, or may elect to emphasize the investment products of competing sponsors or the proprietary products of their own firms. In addition, an investment professional may only distribute our mutual funds for so long as we continue to participate in the platforms of national full-service firms that permit their investment professionals to utilize no-load funds for their clients. These firms can terminate their relationships with us on short notice, limiting our participation in these platforms. Either of these events could cause the net assets of our mutual funds to decline, which would decrease our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 