ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES PART III PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 INVESTOOLS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Forward Looking Statement All statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “believe”, “intend”, “expect”, “may”, “could”, “would”, “will”, “should”, “plan”, “project”, “contemplate”, “anticipate”, or similar statements. In addition, from time to time, we (or our representatives) may make forward-looking statements of this nature in our annual report to shareholders, proxy statement, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, press releases or in oral or written presentations to shareholders, securities analysts, members of the financial press or others. All such forward-looking cautionary statements, whether written or oral, and whether made by us or on our behalf, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements which may accompany the forward-looking statements. In addition, the forward-looking statements reflect only our current views concerning future events, and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements made herein or any other forward-looking statements we make, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results, performance or trends to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We have made every reasonable effort to ensure that the information and assumptions on which these statements and projections are based are current, reasonable, and complete, but there can be no assurance that management’s expectations, beliefs or projections as expressed in the forward-looking statements will actually occur or prove to be correct. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are discussed under “Business — Factors That May Affect Future Results.” Part I Item 1. Business Operations Overview Investools Inc. (referred to as “Investools”, the “Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”) is a leader in investor education. Our mission is to educate and empower individual investors to make their own financial decisions to achieve their financial goals at any time or place by using the Investools Method™ live, by correspondence or online. The Investools Method™ is a unique integration of a disciplined investing process, web-based tools, personalized instruction and support. We hope to establish the Investools Method™ as the most widely recognized, adopted and endorsed approach to educated investing. We offer a full range of investor education products and services that provide lifelong learning and support to self-directed investors. We have more than 278,000 graduates of our basic courses and 85,400 subscribers to our websites. Our investor education products and services are offered in a variety of learning formats with courses ranging from beginning to advanced, to address the needs of students on all investor levels. Corporate Background The Company was incorporated in Delaware on May 21, 2001, and began operations on December 6, 2001, as a result of a merger between ZiaSun Technologies, Inc., a Nevada corporation (“ZiaSun”), and Telescan, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Telescan”). Former ZiaSun and Telescan stockholders acquired approximately 75 percent and 25 percent ownership interests in the Company, respectively. ZiaSun and Telescan each became wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s subsidiaries were: · ZiaSun, which owns 100 percent of Online Investors Advantage, Inc. (“OIA”). OIA owns 100 perent of Investools Asia Pacific Pte., Limited (“Investools Asia”) and Investools Hong Kong Ltd. (“Investools Hong Kong”). · Telescan, which owns 100 percent of Entrepreneurs Online, a Texas corporation. · SES Acquisition Corp., a California corporation operating under the name 360 Group. The Company acquired 360 Group in February 2004. 360 Group was a direct marketing agency that offered services such as custom database development and management, strategic planning, media list planning and buying, creative and production services, response management and analytic services. The Company acquired 360 Group in order to internalize its marketing department. 3 · Prophet Financial Systems, Inc. (“Prophet”), a California corporation, acquired by the Company in January 2005. Prophet is a Web-based content and services provider that enables active investors to use technical analysis to trade more profitably. Prophet’s website, Prophet.Net, is the premier Web provider of advanced charting technology. Acquisition of thinkorswim Group, Inc. On February 15, 2007, Atomic Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company merged with and into thinkorswim Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“thinkorswim”), and a leading online brokerage company specializing in options. thinkorswim shareholders received approximately 50 percent of the merger consideration in cash and approximately 50 percent of the merger consideration in shares of our common stock, representing approximately $170 million in cash and 19.1 million shares of stock valued at $8.75 per share. Also on February 15, 2007, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. provided us with a senior secured term loan of $125 million to fund a portion of the cash consideration and, separately, also provided us with a committed senior secured revolving credit facility of $25 million. Immediately following the transaction, thinkorswim shareholders held 30 percent of the ownership of Investools, and thinkorswim received two seats on our expanded, eight-member board of directors. Certain thinkorswim employees will now be eligible for a $20 million retention bonus pool which will be paid annually over a three-year period. In addition, certain thinkorswim employees and contractors received options to purchase 2.3 million shares of our common stock which vest over four years, beginning the year after the grant date. Business Segments Management analyzes our operations by reviewing financial information regarding products and services that, up through 2006, were aggregated into a single operating segment, investor education. Following the acquisition of thinkorswim in February 2007, we will also report a securities broker-dealer segment. Business Strategy Our products and services are primarily built around an investing method that is designed to teach both experienced and beginning investors how to approach the stock selection process and actively manage their investment portfolios. Course offerings are generally combined with web-based tools, personalized instruction techniques and ongoing support and are offered in a variety of learning formats, which solidify the students’ understanding of the investing process and help in their effort to take control of their financial future. We seek to offer students a full range of investor education products that provide lifelong learning. Generally, students are introduced to our products and services through a free preview event. Attendees of the preview event are given an invitation to attend a more comprehensive instructor-led live or online workshop or purchase an in-depth online home study program, all of which include subscription access to the Investools Online website. Following completion of the initial workshop or home study program, graduates are offered continuing education and advanced courses to build on what they have learned. These continuing education bundles often contain personalized one-on-one coaching and one-to-many online coaching sessions, which are spread out over a period of time and include ongoing support through a live 800-number and a live-chat hotline for continuing education assistance. Products are offered under two brands, Investools Investor Education and Success Magazine Investor Education. Learning Formats Depending on the brand under which the different learning formats are marketed, the content and services available to students, i.e., length of workshop, types of coaching services, length of time over which services are performed, and access to certain Investools Online features may vary. The different learning formats and course offerings are as follows: · Preview Event—We offer directly or through partners, a free event that introduces students to fundamental investing concepts and provides a broad overview of the financial markets. Depending on the brand under which the preview event is marketed, participants may receive a gift for attending. Students are offered an opportunity to purchase a more comprehensive, live workshop, and are offered access to a comprehensive online course featuring hours of multimedia content, quizzes, forums, and live, online-presentations. · Workshops—We offer one and two-day live, instructor-led investing workshops that cover topics ranging from fundamental investing principles to advanced strategies. The workshops provide hands-on experience using our proprietary Investools Online website. The fundamental stock investing workshop includes a six month subscription to the Investor Online website as part of the workshop fee. 4 · Home Study/Online Courses—We also offer all of our courses in an online format. The home study programs provide hands-on training using our proprietary Investools Online website. The stocks online course includes a six month subscription to the Investools Online website as part of the course fee. Additional online courses on advanced topics are also available. · Coaching Services—Our coaching service options offer students individual, on-demand access to coaches via the telephone, or one-to-many online coaching and support. Offered in connection with both foundational and advanced courses, the sessions allow students to learn at their own pace and apply what they are learning. On-demand and one-to-many coaching alternatives are subscription products offered in one to sixty-month time periods, depending on the related course. One-to-many coaching services include weekly, topic-driven live webinar sessions (Trading Rooms), advanced strategy-based group discussions (Active Investor Talk), and market-based group instruction (Masters Talk). · Interactive Workshops—Our interactive workshops provide students with an in-depth, personal learning experience and a low student-to-coach ratio. These courses are taught by our most experienced coaches and are delivered online or live at our Utah facility. They include stocks, options, and currency training, as well as more advanced active investing courses. · Ongoing Support and Tutorials (web subscriptions)—As long as alumni maintain an active subscription to the Investools Online website, they have access to student and technical support through a live-chat online support option and through an 800-number hotline. Alumni can access a series of inexpensive or free topical, recorded online tutorials through our Investools Online website. The click-on-demand tutorials are designed to walk graduates through the portion of the Investools Online website that relates to the subject being covered. Course Offerings · Stocks Course—This foundational course is designed to teach both experienced and beginning students how to select stocks according to a step-by-step, disciplined investing process. The 5 steps are: (1) searching for an investment, (2) industry group analysis, (3) fundamental analysis, (4) technical analysis, and (5) portfolio management. There are no prerequisites to take this course. · Basic Options—This course is designed to introduce students to the power of options and teach them how to start trading options which will give them opportunities to increase their profits and diversify their investing strategies. The course also provides students with a number of options-related strategies such as puts, covered calls and LEAPS that may help their investment portfolio. Students must complete the Stocks Course prior to taking this course. · Advanced Technical Analysis—This course is designed to teach students technical analysis and advanced charting techniques to identify investment opportunities, reduce ambiguity and to give them opportunities to profit in any financial market condition. The course teaches the skills and discipline to interpret trends and trading opportunities based on the physical behavior of the market as seen through technical analysis and charting techniques. Students must complete the Stocks Course prior to taking this course. · Advanced Options—This course is a multi-part course designed to teach students advanced options strategies one step at a time. Building on the principles taught in our Basic Options course, the Advanced Options course introduces new options strategies such as vertical spreads, diagonal spreads, straddles and strangles, index options and butterfly spreads. Students must complete the Stocks Course and Basic Options prior to taking this course. · Investools Currency Trader™—This course prepares students to trade in the foreign exchange markets using the same risk management skills and principles that professional, institutional and advanced individual currency traders utilize. The course focuses on technical analysis and advanced charting techniques to help students identify, analyze and leverage global currency trading opportunities, reduce risk and increase profit potential. The course provides students with the proper know-how for taking advantage of the steady stream of unique opportunities created by the constant flow of world events. There are no prerequisites to take this course. · Advanced Currency Trader—This course expands on the concepts and strategies taught in the Investools Currency Trader™ course. Students will learn more about fundamental analysis in the global currency market and will begin learning how to apply advanced technical analysis to their currency trading. The course also covers advanced subjects such as hedging and the carry trade. Students must complete the Investools Currency Trader™ course prior to taking this course. 5 Continuing Education Programs Designed for the serious student, our continuing education programs offer students comprehensive access to a multitude of products at one price point. Typically students receive additional online or home study courses, coaching access and extended access to the Investools Online website. Content and services available to students (i.e., length of workshop, number of coaching sessions and access to certain Investools Online features) may vary, depending on the brand under which the programs are marketed. · Associate Investor Program—In addition to the Stocks Course and initial six months access to the Investools Online website, the Associate Investor Program provides students with nine months access to unlimited, on-demand phone coaching for the Stocks Course and Basic Options courses, six months access to the weekly stocks trading rooms, the Basic Options online course, and an additional three months of Investools Online website access. · Master Investor Program—In addition to the Stocks Course and initial six months access to the Investools Online website, the Master Investor Program provides students with 18 months unlimited access to on-demand phone coaching, 12 months access to the weekly stocks and options trading rooms, the Basic Options Workshop, Basic Options online course, and a weekly one-to-many online investing strategy presentation called Masters Talk. The Master Investor Program also includes the Advanced Technical Analysis online course, an additional 12 months of Investools Online website access and a one year VIP pass for basic and alumni workshops. · Program of High Distinction—In addition to the Stocks Course and initial six months access to the Investools Online website, the Program of High Distinction provides students with 24 months unlimited access to on-demand phone coaching, the Basic Options Workshop, Basic Options online course, the Advanced Options Workshop, Advanced Options online course, the Advanced Technical Analysis Workshop and the Advanced Technical Analysis online course. It also includes access to the weekly stocks, basic options, advanced options and advanced technicals trading rooms for 12 months. The Program of High Distinction also includes a three-day, live interactive class hosted in our Salt Lake City student center, an additional 24 months of access to the Investools Online website, and a two-year VIP pass for basic, alumni, and advanced workshops. · Active Investing Workshops—Three dynamic, intensive workshops, which were added in early 2005, are offered to students. Each workshop covering stocks, options, and currency trading, respectively, is designed to offer students more sophisticated strategies and technology. Students are taught advanced strategies, hedging techniques and short term trading principles. Each workshop has a low student-to-coach ratio to provide students with more personal coaching and deeper comprehension. With oversight from an experienced instructor, students practice money management, evaluating and calibrating risk tolerance, monitoring total cash flow, and actively managing portfolio growth, all in real time. Value Added Tools · Investools Online—Our Investools Online website gives students access to the investment tools needed to execute the strategies taught in our investor education programs. The website has proprietary features that are not accessible on other financial websites, including more than 50 pre-built stock searches, comparative reports, market indicators, market commentary and portfolio tracking features, advanced charting tools, audio and video commentary broadcasts and account management features. An initial six month subscription to the website is included with the purchase of a basic level investing workshop or online course. At the end of the initial subscription, graduates are offered renewals for a fee, which depends on the length of the renewal period and whether additional products or services are purchased. Currently, we offer one to sixty-month subscription renewals. · thinkorswim PaperMoney—This application became available to Investools’ students after our merger announcement with thinkorswim in September 2006. It replicates the live online trading platform available to thinkorswim account holders. PaperMoney provides the student with a “paper” $100,000 portfolio they can use to learn how to execute trades online and test strategies. PaperMoney includes additional charting and options analytical tools. All students have access to weekly online tutorials on the PaperMoney platform. Sales and Marketing Strategy Revenue is derived from: (i) the initial sale of our products and services as a result of marketing efforts across multiple marketing channels which include, but are not limited to, television, print, direct mail, radio, online banner, paid and organic search and email direct marketing campaigns driving customers to either a free preview of investor education 6 products offered at locations near the prospect or the opportunity to speak with a telesales representative about the products offered; and (ii) the additional sale of products and services to graduates as a result of continued interaction with us in workshops, periodic email and direct mail communications and through access to coaches and instructors. We experienced growth in initial product sales in 2006 as a result of continued refinements to our initiated and controlled direct marketing efforts for our own “Investools” brand. We experienced significant growth in additional product sales and services to graduates as a result of the introduction of multiple new products and product bundles. Competition We are aware of several companies that provide some level of investor education in similar delivery formats. While these companies may have greater resources, we believe that: (i) the depth and quality of our curriculum and training, (ii) the range of our foundational and continuing education course offerings, from beginner to advanced, (iii) our branded and co-marketing product distribution partnerships, (iv) the quality of our instructors and coaches, (v) our database of prospects and students, and (vi) our focus on improved learning formats such as online and on-demand access to expert instructors provide us with a considerable competitive advantage compared to other investor education providers. Intellectual Property We have registered and received approval for a number of trademarks in the United States and foreign countries that are important to our future success. Of critical importance to us is the Investools trademark. The Investools trademark is a widely recognized, adopted and endorsed approach to investor education and is associated with quality and reliable service. In addition, as a result of acquiring Prophet Financial Systems, Inc. (“Prophet”) we acquired the Prophet trademark and tradename. Prophet’s website is a widely recognized charting tool that has won various awards and been recognized as a leader in online financial charting applications. We have registered and maintain a multitude of domain names to ensure continuity of delivery for all of our websites. Domain names are typically renewed several months prior to their respective expiration dates for a period of two years or longer to prevent loss of ownership. We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information with product development partners, employees and consultants through nondisclosure agreements, contract provisions and copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws. With respect to technologies that we license to third parties for use in specific applications or platforms, we rely on licensing agreements to ensure additional protection related to the source code of our products as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyright work. Management believes that our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights do not infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, and management is not aware of any current infringement claims against us. Regulatory Compliance General Our products and services are not currently subject to the prior approval of any government regulatory body. However, certain foreign countries require that we register with their respective securities commissions before conducting investment-related workshops; for example, we are registered with the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (“ASIC”). As of December 31, 2006, we were not a broker-dealer or otherwise engaged in the business of effecting transactions in securities, nor were we an investment advisor or otherwise engaged in providing investment advice or making investment recommendations. However, our recently acquired wholly-owned subsidiary, thinkorswim and its businesses, is extensively regulated by various federal and state agencies. Sales and Marketing Our products and services are marketed via a number of media channels, including television, print, direct mail, radio, online banners, paid and organic search and email direct marketing campaigns, which are regulated by numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, anti-fraud laws, consumer protection laws, privacy laws, telemarketing laws, telephone solicitation laws and spam laws. While we have not been adversely impacted by any such regulation to-date, management believes that our marketing activities will increasingly be subject to such regulation, which may: (i) limit our ability to solicit new customers or offer additional products or services to existing customers, and (ii) result in noncompliance, which may subject us to fines 7 or various forms of civil or criminal prosecution. Such regulation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We regularly review our marketing and sales materials and practices, make modifications from time to time as appropriate, and monitor the status of existing and proposed regulatory guidelines. Although our operations on the Internet are not currently regulated by any government agency, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the future governing the Internet. In addition, existing laws may be interpreted to apply to the Internet in ways not currently applied. Regulatory and legal requirements are subject to change and may become more restrictive, making our business units’ compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise restricting our ability to conduct their businesses as they are now conducted. Periodic Reporting As a public company, we are required to file periodic reports, as well as other information, with the SEC within established deadlines. Any document we file with the SEC may be viewed or copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Additional information regarding the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. Our SEC filings are also available to the public through the SEC’s web site located at http://www.sec.gov. We maintain a corporate website at http://www.investools.com, on which investors may access free of charge our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and amendments to those reports as soon as is reasonably practicable after furnishing such material to the SEC. In addition, we will voluntarily provide electronic or paper copies of our filings free of charge upon request to our Investor Relations department at (801) 816-6918. Human Resources At December 31, 2006, we had 545 employees. Of those, 18 percent were employed in customer acquisition related positions, 59 percent were employed in customer fulfillment and retention related positions, 11 percent were employed in technology positions, and 12 percent were employed in administrative and marketing positions. We also had 11 persons under contract, primarily in technology positions. Our key personnel are covered by employment and confidentiality agreements. No person employed by us, either full-time, part-time or on a contract basis, is covered by a collective bargaining agreement or represented by a union, and we have never experienced a work stoppage due to a protest or related activities. Management considers relations with our personnel to be good. Item 1A. Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results Our business may suffer if we are not successful in developing, maintaining and defending proprietary aspects of technology used in our products and services. Our success and ability to compete are dependent on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, even if we prevailed, could be costly, divert resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We can give no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate, or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. Any failure by us to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We integrate third-party software into code creating and supporting some of our products and services. This third-party software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to maintain licenses to the third-party software included in the code supporting our product services, features of our products or services could be unavailable, until equivalent software could be developed or licensed and integrated. This delay could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Any negative changes in economic conditions, significant price increases, inflation or adverse events related to various industries, or the willingness of investors to trade could harm discretionary spending and have a material adverse effect. We believe that the level of public interest in investing, particularly in the securities and option markets as well as electronic trading has significantly influenced the market for these products and services. The securities markets have experienced substantial volatility in recent periods. A sharp drop or sustained or gradual decline in securities prices or other developments in the securities markets typically could cause individual investors to be less inclined 8 to invest in the securities markets, which would be likely to result in reduced interest in our investor educational products and services. We depend on continued growth in use of the Internet and online commerce. Our ability to expand our delivery platforms and penetrate new markets could be stagnated without continued growth in the use and efficient operation of the Internet. Web-based markets for information, products and services are new and rapidly evolving. If Internet usage does not continue to grow or grows slower than anticipated, we may be unable to secure new sponsorship and subscription arrangements for our offerings. To the extent our business relies on web-based delivery platforms, our operations will also be dependent on adequate network infrastructure, consistent quality of service and availability to customers of cost-effective, high-speed Internet access. If our systems cannot meet customer demand for access and reliability, these requirements will not be satisfied, and customer satisfaction could degrade substantially, adversely affecting our prospects for market penetration and profitability. Future regulations or the interpretation of existing laws pertaining to the Internet could decrease the demand for our products or increase the cost of doing business. Any new law or regulation pertaining to the Internet, or the application or interpretation of existing laws, could increase our cost of doing business, decrease the demand for our products and services, or otherwise harm our business. We must comply with a variety of federal and state laws affecting the content of materials distributed over the Internet, as well as regulations and other laws restricting the collection, use and disclosure of personal information that we may obtain in the course of providing our online services. Future laws or regulations may relate to information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, consumer protection, online content, user privacy, taxation and the quality of products and services. Compliance with future laws and regulations, or existing laws as they may be interpreted in the future, could be expensive, time consuming, impractical or impossible. We may be liable for invasion of privacy or misappropriation by others of our users’ information, which could adversely affect our reputation and financial results. Some of our services require the disclosure of sensitive information by the user. We rely on a number of security systems for our services to protect this information from unauthorized use or access. We cannot predict whether new technological developments could circumvent these security measures. If the security measures that we use to protect personal information or credit card information are ineffective, we may be subject to liability, including claims for invasion of privacy, impersonation, unauthorized purchases with credit card information or other similar claims. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and several states have investigated the use of personal information by certain Internet companies. We could incur significant expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if our privacy practices are investigated. Laws and regulations can affect our operations and may limit our ability to operate in certain jurisdictions. Federal, state and international laws and regulations impact our operations and may limit our ability to obtain authorization to operate in some states or countries. Many federal, state and international governmental agencies assert authority to regulate providers of investment education programs. Although we believe that we are currently in compliance with all such regulations, there can be no assurance that the federal, state or international regulatory structure will not change. For example, if we were required to comply with, or found to be in violation of, a regulatory body’s current or future licensing or regulatory requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal sanctions, including monetary penalties. Additionally, we could be required to incur significant on-going expenses to comply with regulatory requirements or, conceivably, could be barred from providing investment education services in that jurisdiction. If any of these things occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline. If we are not able to continually enhance our web-based products and services and adapt them to changes in technology, our future revenue growth could be adversely affected. If our improvement and adaptation of our web-based products and services is delayed, results in systems interruptions or is not aligned with market expectations or preferences, our revenue growth could be adversely affected. The online environment is rapidly evolving, and the technology used in web-based products changes quickly. We must therefore be able to quickly modify our solutions to adapt to emerging online standards and practices, technological advances, and changing user and sponsor preferences. Ongoing enhancement of our web site, web-based products and related technology will entail significant expense and technical risk. We may use new technologies ineffectively or fail to adapt our web site, web-based products and related technology on a timely and 9 cost-effective basis. We rely on our strategic partners to provide us with access to leads and customers. We currently access approximately 56 percent of our sales transaction volume through co-marketing (Success Magazine and NET Marketing Alliance) relationships. Our strategic partners may enter into identical or similar relationships with our competitors, which could diminish the value of the partners for customer acquisition. Our strategic partners could terminate their relationship with us. If any of these organizations were to terminate their relationship with us our ability to distribute our products and services could be impaired. We may not be able to maintain our existing relationships or enter into new strategic relationships. Our ability to offer courses may be affected by natural disaster, strikes and other unpredictable events. Natural disasters, external labor disruptions and other adverse events may affect our ability to conduct our business, resulting in loss of revenue. Severe blizzards or floods may reduce the ability of our course participants to travel to our courses. These natural disasters may also disrupt the printing and transportation of the materials used in our direct mail campaigns. Furthermore, postal strikes could occur in the countries where we operate which could delay and reduce delivery of our direct mail marketing materials. Transportation strikes could also occur in the countries where we operate, adversely affecting course attendance. The future occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline. If we do not successfully introduce new programs, products and services, our growth rate and revenue will be reduced. Our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to sell existing training programs, products and services to new students, to open new markets and to develop and introduce new educational programs, products and services. If we are unable to expand our markets and products, our growth rate and revenue will be reduced. Market conditions and the level of customer interest may be different for our current products than for new products, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete favorably with, and obtain market acceptance for, any such new programs, products or services. We may desire or need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we need but are unable to obtain additional capital to expand our operations and invest in new products and services, our business may be adversely affected. In the future we may require substantial additional capital to finance ongoing operations or the growth of our business. To the extent that our existing sources of liquidity and cash flow from operations are insufficient to fund our activities, we may need to raise additional funds. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms. If we fail to raise additional funds, we may need to sell debt or additional equity securities or to reduce our growth to a level that can be supported by our cash flow. Without additional capital, we may not be able to: further develop or enhance our services and products; acquire necessary technologies, products or businesses; expand operations in the United States or internationally; hire, train and retain employees; market our services and products; or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements. We may experience difficulties integrating recent and future acquisitions. As a result of recent acquisitions and, as part of our general business strategy, we expect to experience significant growth and expect such growth to continue into the future. This growth is expected to place a significant strain on our management, financial, operating and technical resources. Failure to manage this growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively integrate the acquired companies, including our newly acquired subsidiary, thinkorswim, with our own operations. Expansion will place significant demands on our marketing, sales, administrative, operational, financial and management information systems, controls and procedures. Accordingly, our performance and profitability will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to (i) manage our business and our subsidiaries as a cohesive enterprise, (ii) manage expansion through the timely implementation and maintenance of appropriate administrative, operational, financial and management information systems, controls and procedures, (iii) add internal capacity, facilities and third-party sourcing arrangements as and when needed, (iv) maintain service quality controls, and (v) attract, train, retain, motivate and manage effectively our employees. There can be no assurance that we will integrate and manage successfully new systems, controls and procedures for our business, or that our systems, controls, procedures, facilities and personnel, even if successfully integrated, will be adequate to support our projected future operations. Any failure to implement and maintain such systems, controls and procedures, add internal capacity, facilities and third-party sourcing arrangements or attract, train, retain, motivate and manage effectively our employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and 10 results of operations. We are dependent on our chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors for his depth of industry experience and knowledge. We are highly dependent on the services of Lee K. Barba, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr. Barba has extensive experience, knowledge and contacts in the financial and investment industries. If Mr. Barba were to terminate his employment with us, we would lose valuable human capital, adversely affecting our business. We currently do not maintain key man insurance on Mr. Barba or any other member of our senior management team. Neither Mr. Barba nor any other member of our senior management team intends to retire or is nearing retirement age. Our exposure to litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are from time to time involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings. We recently settled lawsuits filed against us by the Australian Securities and Investment Commission, Ross Jardine and True North Academy L.L.C. as described in Item 3 below. Although we currently are not a defendant in any other material legal proceedings, any claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, subject us to undetermined penalties, or require us to modify or cease sales of our products or services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Items 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 