Item 1A. Risk Factors.” While none of our products has alternative manufacturers qualified due to exclusivity provisions in the respective licensing agreements or based on other commercial considerations, we believe there are other suppliers that could serve as replacements for the current manufacturers if the need arose. However, qualifying such a replacement manufacturer with the FDA could take a significant amount of time, and, as a result, we would not be able to guarantee an uninterrupted supply of the affected product to our customers. Chiesi — License and Distribution Agreement This agreement is described below under the caption “License and Collaboration Agreements” in this Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K. 11 Table of Contents Shasun — Agreement for Manufacturing and Supply of Zileuton API Shasun manufactures all of our commercial supplies of the zileuton API pursuant to an agreement dated February 8, 2005, as amended. The API purchased from Shasun currently has a shelf-life of 36 months. The agreement will expire on the earlier of the date on which we have purchased a specified amount of the API for zileuton or December 31, 2012. The agreement automatically extends for successive one-year periods after December 31, 2012 unless Shasun provides us with 18-months’ prior written notice of cancellation. We have not received written notice of cancellation. Jagotec — Manufacture and Supply Agreement for ZYFLO CR Jagotec, a subsidiary of SkyePharma PLC, manufactures all of our bulk, uncoated tablets of ZYFLO CR pursuant to a manufacture and supply agreement dated August 20, 2007, as amended. We have agreed to purchase from Jagotec a minimum of 20 million ZYFLO CR tablet cores in each of the four 12-month periods starting May 30, 2008. The agreement’s initial term extends to May 22, 2012, and automatically continues thereafter unless we provide Jagotec with 24-months’ prior written notice of termination or Jagotec provides us with 36-months’ prior written notice of termination. We have not given or received written notice of cancellation. LGLS — License and Option Agreement This agreement is described below under the caption “License and Collaboration Agreements” in this Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K. Meiji — SPECTRACEF License and Supply Agreement This agreement is described below under the caption “License and Collaboration Agreements” in this Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our products, product candidates, technology and know-how; to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others; and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. Our policy is to acquire the rights to products that are covered by U.S. and foreign patents or patent applications, trade secrets and know-how and offer the opportunity for continuing technological innovation. Patents Our patents and patent applications include patents and patent applications that we own or exclusively license with claims directed to composition of matter, formulations of our products and product candidates and methods of use of our products and product candidates to treat particular indications. 12 Table of Contents The following table shows our U.S. patents relating to our products and product candidates as of February 29, 2012: Number Issued Patents Product(s) Expiration Licensed Patents 5,422,123 Tablets with controlled-rate release of active substances ZYFLO CR 06/06/2012 6,183,778 Tablets with controlled-rate release of active substances ZYFLO CR 09/21/2013 5,633,262 Quinoline carboxylic acid derivatives having 7-(4-amino-methyl-3-oxime) pyrrolidine substituent and processes for preparing thereof FACTIVE 06/15/2015 5,962,468 7-(4-aminomethyl-3- methyloxyiminopyrroplidin-1-yl)-1-cyclopropyl-6-flu oro-4-oxo-1,4-dihydro-1,8-naphthyridine-3-carboxylic acid and the process for the preparation thereof FACTIVE 06/15/2015 5,958,915 Antibacterial composition for oral administration SPECTRACEF 10/14/2016 5,776,944 7-(4-aminomethyl-3- methyloxyiminopyrroplidin-1-yl)-1-cyclopropyl-6-flu oro-4-oxo-1,4-dihydro-1,8-naphthyridine-3-carboxylic acid and the process for the preparation thereof FACTIVE 04/04/2017 6,723,734 Salt of naphthyridine carboxylic acid derivative FACTIVE 03/20/2018 6,340,689 Methods of use of quinolone compounds against atypical upper respiratory pathogenic bacteria FACTIVE 09/14/2019 6,262,071 Methods of use of antimicrobial compounds against pathogenic amycoplasma bacteria FACTIVE 09/21/2019 6,331,550 Methods of use of quinolone compounds against anaerobic pathogenic bacteria FACTIVE 09/21/2019 6,455,540 Methods of use of quinolone compounds against anaerobic pathogenic bacteria FACTIVE 09/21/2019 6,803,376 Method of use of quinolone compounds against pneumococcal and haemophilus bacteria FACTIVE 09/21/2019 Patents for Product Candidates 5,516,774 Vasopressin antagonists and oxytocin antagonists CRTX 080 07/29/2013 5,624,923 Vasopressin antagonists and oxytocin antagonists CRTX 080 07/29/2013 6,352,718 Vasopressin antagonist formulation and process CRTX 080 09/25/2020 All of the above patents were filed with and subsequently issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. Additionally we have filed patents, which have been subsequently issued, in foreign countries for CRTX 080. Other than FACTIVE and CRTX 080, patent protection is not available for composition of matter claims directed to the APIs of our current products and product candidates. As a result, we primarily rely on the protections afforded by our formulation and method of use patents. Method of use patents, in particular, are more difficult to enforce than composition of matter patents because of the risk of off-label sale or use of the subject compounds. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary products, methods and technologies that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. If any parties should successfully claim that our proprietary products, methods and technologies infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, and a court 13 Table of Contents could require us to stop the infringing activity. We do not know if our pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or the length of term of patent protection that we may have for our products. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. For information about the patents and patent applications that we own or exclusively license that we consider to be most important to the protection of our products and product candidates, see “— Proprietary Rights” under each of the products and product candidates described above under “Branded Products” and “Product Development Pipeline.” Trade Secrets We may rely, in some circumstances, on trade secrets to protect our technology. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. We seek to protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, scientific advisors and consultants. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems. While we have confidence in these individuals, organizations and systems, agreements or security measures may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. To the extent that our consultants, contractors or collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how or inventions. Trademarks We use trademarks on many of our products, and believe that having distinctive marks is an important factor in marketing these products. We have U.S. and/or foreign trademark registrations and filings for certain of our corporate names, products (including ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO) and product candidates. CUROSURF is owned by Chiesi and is licensed to us for sales and marketing purposes in the United States. FACTIVE is owned by LGLS and is licensed to us for sales and marketing purposes in North America and many European countries. SPECTRACEF is owned by Meiji and licensed to us for sales and marketing purposes in the United States. Other trademarks or service marks appearing in this annual report are the property of their respective holders. License and Collaboration Agreements We have entered into a number of license agreements under which we have licensed intellectual property and other rights needed to develop our products or under which we have licensed intellectual property and other rights to third parties, including the license and collaboration agreements summarized below. Chiesi — CUROSURF License and Distribution Agreement Overview. On May 6, 2009, we entered into a series of agreements with Chiesi pursuant to which we obtained an exclusive, 10-year license to the U.S. commercial rights to Chiesi’s CUROSURF product and a two-year right of first offer on all drugs Chiesi intends to market in the United States, which has lapsed without renewal. Fees, Milestones and Royalties. Under the license and distribution agreement, we pay Chiesi the greater of a percentage of the net sales price for CUROSURF or the applicable floor price as set forth in the license and distribution agreement. 14 Table of Contents Exclusive Supplier. Under the license and distribution agreement, Chiesi is our exclusive supplier of CUROSURF. Term and Termination. Our license agreement with Chiesi is for a 10-year initial term and thereafter will be automatically renewed for successive one-year renewal terms, unless earlier terminated by either party upon six months’ prior written notice. Abbott — Zileuton License Agreements Overview. In December 2003, we acquired an exclusive worldwide license, under patent rights and know-how controlled by Abbott, to develop, make, use and sell controlled-release and injectable formulations of zileuton for all clinical indications, except for the treatment of children under age seven and use in cardiovascular and vascular devices. This license included an exclusive sublicense of Abbott’s rights in proprietary controlled-release technology originally licensed to Abbott by Jagotec. The agreement was amended in January 2010 to expand the patent rights to additional zileuton products. In March 2004, we acquired from Abbott the U.S. trademark ZYFLO and an exclusive worldwide license, under patent rights and know-how controlled by Abbott, to develop, make, use and sell the immediate-release formulation of zileuton for all clinical indications. Fees and Royalty Payments. In consideration for the December 2003 license, we paid Abbott an initial license fee and agreed to make aggregate milestone payments of up to $13.0 million to Abbott upon the achievement of various development and commercialization milestones, including the specified minimum net sales of licensed products. We have made all of the required milestone payments under the December 2003 license agreement, although additional milestone payments would be due and payable upon any future FDA approval of CRTX 073. In addition, under each of the December 2003 and March 2004 license agreements, as amended, we agreed to pay royalties to Abbott based on the net sales of licensed products by us, our affiliates and our sublicensees. Our obligation to pay royalties continues on a country-by-country basis for a period of 10 years from the first commercial sale of a licensed product in each country. Upon the expiration of our obligation to pay royalties for licensed products in a given country, the license will become perpetual, irrevocable and fully paid up with respect to licensed products in that country. If we decide to sublicense rights under the license, we must first enter into good faith negotiations with Abbott for the commercialization rights to the licensed product. Abbott waived its right of first negotiation with respect to our co-promotion arrangement with DEY for ZYFLO CR. Term and Termination. Except for a termination right provided to a party in connection with a breach by the other party, the term of the December 2003 license agreement is perpetual although we have the right to terminate the license at any time upon 60-days’ notice to Abbott and payment of a termination fee. Except for a termination right provided to a party in connection with a breach by the other party or a force majeure event that prevents the performance of a party for six months or more, the term of the March 2004 license agreement also is perpetual. Jagotec — Consent to Abbott Sublicense of Zileuton In December 2003, we entered into an agreement with Jagotec under which Jagotec consented to Abbott’s sublicense to us of rights to make, use and sell ZYFLO CR covered by Jagotec’s patent rights and know-how. In addition to an upfront fee, we agreed to make aggregate milestone payments to Jagotec of up to $6.6 million upon the achievement of various development and commercialization milestones. We have made all of the required milestone payments. In addition, we agreed to pay royalties to Jagotec based on the net sales of the product by us and our affiliates. We also agreed to pay royalties to Jagotec under the license agreement between Jagotec and Abbott based on the net sales of the product by us and our affiliates. In addition, we agreed to pay Jagotec fees if we sublicense our rights under the licensed patent rights and know-how. Except for a termination right provided to a party in connection with a breach by the other party, the term of this agreement is perpetual. LG Life Sciences — FACTIVE License and Option Agreement Overview. On September 9, 2009, we acquired the commercial rights to the anti-infective FACTIVE in North America and certain countries in Europe, certain inventory and related assets and specific product-related 15 Table of Contents liabilities through an asset purchase agreement with Oscient, for $8.1 million and quarterly royalty payments based on net sales through September 9, 2014, adjusted for royalties we pay to LGLS with respect to those net sales. Fees, Milestones and Royalties. Under the license and option agreement, as amended, we are obligated to pay a royalty on net sales of FACTIVE in the licensed territories. These royalty obligations expire with respect to each country covered by the agreement on the later of (1) the expiration of the patents covering FACTIVE in each country or (2) the expiration of data exclusivity in Mexico, Canada and the European Union, respectively, or 2014 in the United States. We are also obligated to make milestone payments upon achievement of additional regulatory approvals and sales thresholds. Exclusive Supplier. Under the license and option agreement, LGLS is the exclusive supplier of all our requirements for the FACTIVE API. Term and Termination. The term of the license and option agreement with respect to each country extends at least through the life of the patents covering gemifloxacin in such country. The patent term could extend further in countries outside the United States depending upon several factors, including whether we obtain patent extensions and the timing of our commercial sale of product in a particular country. Meiji — SPECTRACEF License and Supply Agreement Overview. On October 12, 2006, we entered into a license and supply agreement, as subsequently amended and supplemented, with Meiji that grants us an exclusive, nonassignable U.S. license to manufacture and sell SPECTRACEF, using cefditoren pivoxil supplied by Meiji, for our currently approved therapeutic indications and to use Meiji’s SPECTRACEF trademark in connection with the sale and promotion of SPECTRACEF for our currently approved therapeutic indications. Fees, Milestones and Royalties. In consideration for the licenses Meiji granted to us, we agreed to pay Meiji a nonrefundable license fee of $6 million in six installments over a period of five years from the date of the agreement. As of December 31, 2011, we have made all required license payments to Meiji. The license and supply agreement also requires us to make quarterly royalty payments based on the net sales of the products covered by the agreement for a period of 10 years from the date the particular product is launched by us. Exclusive Supplier and Minimum Purchase Obligation. Under the license and supply agreement, Meiji is our exclusive supplier of cefditoren pivoxil for both our branded and authorized generic products and, through October 2018, of SPECTRACEF 400 mg so long as Meiji is able to supply 100% of our requirements for SPECTRACEF 400 mg. Additionally, we have agreed with Meiji for it to be a non-exclusive supplier of SPECTRACEF 200 mg through October 2018. We are required to purchase from Meiji combined amounts of the API cefditoren pivoxil, SPECTRACEF 200 mg, SPECTRACEF 400 mg and sample packs of SPECTRACEF 400 mg exceeding $15.0 million for the first year beginning October 2008, $20.0 million for year two, $25.0 million for year three, $30.0 million for year four and $35.0 million for year five. If we do not meet our minimum purchase requirement in a given year, we must pay Meiji an amount equal to 50% of the shortfall in that year. We expect to exceed the minimum purchase requirements. If we are unable to meet the minimum purchase requirements, the parties will discuss in good faith measures they can take to address the situation. Term and Termination. The term of the license and supply agreement continues on a product-by-product basis until the expiration of 10 years from the launch date of each product. In addition, the term, on a product-by-product basis, shall automatically renew for subsequent one-year periods unless either party gives the other party six-months’ prior written notice of its intention not to renew. Meiji may immediately terminate the agreement if we undergo a change in control as defined in the agreement without Meiji’s consent, which may not be unreasonably withheld; cease selling SPECTRACEF for a period of 60 days, unless the cessation is due to a force majeure event or a failure or delay by Meiji in supplying cefditoren pivoxil; or promote, market or sell, either directly or indirectly through a third party, any pharmaceutical products in the United States of the same therapeutic class as cefditoren pivoxil. On or after April 1, 2012, we may terminate the agreement with 270-days’ prior written notice if a generic cefditoren product is launched in the United States that substantially lessens our sales of SPECTRACEF. 16 Table of Contents Competition The pharmaceutical industry and hospital market in which we principally compete are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. We face potential competition from many different sources, including commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Our current products compete, and any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete, with a wide range of products for the same therapeutic indications and new therapies that may become available in the future. Upon loss of regulatory marketing exclusivity or patent protection or as a result of design-around strategies that allow for generic product introduction prior to the expiration of key product patents, we are potentially subject to competition from generic versions of our branded products. Generics are typically priced at lower levels than branded products and may substantially erode prescription demand and sales of our branded products. Our generic products are subject to competition from equivalent products introduced by other pharmaceutical companies. Such competition may adversely impact the sales volume and pricing of these products and our ability to profitably market these products. Some or all of our product candidates, if approved, may face competition from other branded and generic drugs approved for the same therapeutic indications, approved drugs used off label for such indications and novel drugs in clinical development. Our ability to successfully market and sell the products in our pipeline will depend on the extent to which our newly formulated product candidates have the benefit of patent protection or some other form of regulatory marketing exclusivity or are meaningfully differentiated from these existing drugs or new competitive formulations of these drugs offered by third parties. Our products compete, and our product candidates, if approved, will compete, principally with the following products or with new drugs that may be developed for the same indication: • CUROSURF — Abbott’s Survanta and ONY’s Infasurf. • ZYFLO CR, CRTX 073 or any anti-asthma product candidate — IgE blockers, such as Genentech USA, Inc’s and Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation’s Xolair®; bronchodilatory drugs, such as Teva Respiratory LLC’s ProAir® HFA (albuterol sulfate) Inhalation Aerosol and Schering Corporation’s, or Schering, Proventil® HFA (albuterol sulfate) Inhalation Aerosol; Leukotriene Receptor Agonists, such as Merck Sharp and Dohme Corporation’s Singulair® (montelukast sodium); inhaled corticosteroids, such as GlaxoSmithKline’s, or GSK, Flovent® Diskus® (fluticasone propionate inhalation powder); and combination products, such as GSK’s Advair Diskus® (fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder) and AstraZeneca LP’s Symbicort® (budesonide/formoterol fumarate dehydrate) Inhalation Solution. • FACTIVE or any anti-infective product candidate — Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Levaquin® (levofloxacin), Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceutical Inc.’s Avelox® (moxifloxacin) and generic formulations of Bayer Schering Pharma’s Cipro® (ciprofloxacin). • SPECTRACEF or any anti-infective product candidate — second and third generation cephalosporins, such as Pernix Therapeutics LLC’s Cedax® (ceftibuten), Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s, Suprax® and generic formulations of cefdinir and GSK’s Ceftin® (cefuroxime). • CRTX 067 or any cough/cold product candidate — various narcotic and non-narcotic antitussives, such as King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Tussigon® (hydrocodone and homatropine), Mallinckrodt, Inc.’s TussiCaps® (hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex), UCB, Inc.’s, or UCB, Tussionex® (hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex) generic formulations of Tussionex marketed by UCB and Par Pharmaceuticals Companies, Inc., or Par Pharmaceuticals, generic formulations of promethazine hydrochloride and codeine phosphate oral syrup and Wyeth LLC’s Tessalon® (benzonatate); over-the-counter antitussives, such as Reckitt Benckiser Inc.’s Delsym® (dextromethorphan polistirex) and Schering-Plough’s HealthCare Products Inc.’s Coricidin HBP® Cough & Cold (dextromethorphan and chlorpheniramine). • CRTX 080 or any hyponatremia product candidate — Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd’s Samsca® (tolvaptan) and Astellas Pharma Inc.’s Vaprisol® (conivaptan). 17 Table of Contents Regulatory Matters Government authorities in the United States and other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution and marketing of our products. In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us and our products to administrative or judicial sanctions, such as a refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions and/or criminal prosecution. FDA Regulation of Drug Product Before a “new drug” may be marketed in the United States, it must be approved by the FDA. Depending on the drug for which approval is sought, FDA marketing approval can be issued either as approval of an NDA or an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA. New Drug Applications. The steps required for approval of an NDA include: • pre-clinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies; • submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; • adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each indication; • submission to the FDA of an NDA; • satisfactory completion of an the FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug is produced to assess compliance with cGMP; and • FDA review and approval of the NDA. Pre-clinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulations, as well as animal studies. The results of these pre-clinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. An IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time the FDA raises concerns or questions about issues such as the conduct of the clinical trials as outlined in the IND. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding FDA concerns or questions before clinical trials can proceed. Submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials. Once an IND is in effect, each clinical trial to be conducted under the IND must be submitted to the FDA, which may or may not allow the trial to proceed. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified physician-investigators and healthcare personnel. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, for example, the parameters to be used in monitoring patient safety and the safety and effectiveness criteria, or endpoints, to be evaluated. Clinical trials are typically conducted in three defined phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined. Each trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, or ethics committee before it can begin. Phase I usually involves the initial administration of the investigational drug to people to evaluate its safety, dosage, tolerance, pharmacodynamics, and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness. Phase II usually involves trials in a limited patient population afflicted with the disease or condition for which the drug is being developed, to evaluate dosage tolerance and appropriate dosage, identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks, and preliminarily evaluate the effectiveness of the drug for specific indications. Phase III trials usually further evaluate effectiveness and test further for safety by administering the drug in its final form in an expanded patient population. Any Phase I, Phase II or Phase III clinical trials we initiate may not be completed successfully within any specified period of time, if at all. Further, we, third parties assisting in our product development efforts or the FDA may suspend 18 Table of Contents clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or are obtaining no medical benefit from the product being studied. Assuming successful completion of the required clinical testing, the results of the pre-clinical trials and the clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the product, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. Before approving an application, the FDA usually will inspect the facility or facilities at which the product is manufactured, and will not approve the product unless cGMP compliance is satisfactory. If the FDA determines the NDA is acceptable, it will approve it. If the FDA determines the NDA is not acceptable, it will issue a complete response letter outlining the deficiencies in the NDA and often requesting additional data and information. Even if the sponsor provides the requested or other information or data, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval. Supplemental New Drug Applications. If we plan line extensions of certain of our products with approved NDAs, such as new formulations including extended release formulations, new labeling claims and new indications, before we may market these products, we must submit for FDA review a supplemental new drug application, or sNDA, and receive FDA approval. The sNDA must include any additional testing, data and information necessary to demonstrate that the changed product is safe, effective and properly manufactured. Approved sNDAs are also required for certain other product changes, such as significant changes to the manufacturing process or changes in the manufacturing site. The testing and approval process for NDAs and sNDAs requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we cannot be sure that any approval will be granted on a timely basis or at all. In certain circumstances, product candidates may be eligible for submission of applications for approval that require less information than the NDAs discussed above. There are two such pathways to approval: ANDA and 505(b)(2) NDAs. Abbreviated New Drug Applications. The FDA may approve an ANDA if the product is the same in important respects as a listed drug, or a drug with the FDA approval, or the FDA has declared it suitable for an ANDA submission. ANDAs for such drugs, often called generic drugs, must generally contain the same manufacturing and composition information as NDAs, but applicants do not need to submit pre-clinical and usually do not need to submit clinical safety and effectiveness data. Instead, they must demonstrate, among other things, that the product has the same active ingredient as the listed drug, that the product is bioequivalent to the listed drug, and that the drug is properly manufactured. Drugs are bioequivalent if the rate and extent of absorption of the drug do not show a significant difference from the rate and extent of absorption of the listed drug. Conducting bioequivalence studies is generally less time-consuming and costly than conducting pre-clinical and clinical trials necessary to support an NDA. The FDCA provides that ANDA reviews and/or approvals will be delayed in various circumstances. For example, the holder of the NDA for the listed drug may be entitled to a period of market exclusivity, during which the FDA will not approve, and may not even review, the ANDA. If the listed drug is claimed to be covered by an unexpired patent that the NDA holder has listed with the FDA, the ANDA applicant may certify in a so-called paragraph IV certification that the patent is invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the product that is the subject of the ANDA. If the holder of the NDA sues the ANDA applicant within 45 days of being notified of the paragraph IV certification, the FDA will not approve the ANDA until the earlier of a court decision favorable to the ANDA applicant or the expiration of 30 months. Also, in circumstances in which the listed drug is claimed to be covered by an unexpired patent and the patent’s validity, enforceability or applicability to the generic drug has been challenged by more than one generic applicant, ANDA approvals of later generic drugs may be delayed until the first applicant has received a 180-day period of market exclusivity. The regulations governing marketing exclusivity and patent protection are complex, and it is often unclear how they will be applied in particular circumstances until the FDA acts on one or more ANDA applications. Section 505(b)(2) New Drug Applications. Some product candidates may be eligible for approval under the Section 505(b)(2) approval process. Section 505(b)(2) applications may be submitted for drugs that represent 19 Table of Contents a modification of a listed drug, such as a new indication or a new dosage form, for which an ANDA is not available. Section 505(b)(2) applications may rely on the FDA’s previous determinations of safety and effectiveness for the listed drug as well as information provided by the 505(b)(2) applicant to support the modification of the listed drug. Preparing Section 505(b)(2) applications is generally less costly and time-consuming than preparing an NDA based entirely on new data and information. Like ANDAs, approval of Section 505(b)(2) applications may be delayed because of market exclusivity awarded to the listed drug or because patent rights are being adjudicated. In addition to the FDA’s responsibilities with respect to drug approvals, both before and after approval of drugs for which approved NDAs and ANDAs have been obtained or will be sought, and in connection with marketed drugs that do not have approved NDAs or ANDAs, we and our manufacturers and other partners are required to comply with many FDA requirements. For example, we are required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA, and to comply with certain requirements concerning advertising, promotion and sampling. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform to cGMP, and the FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, sponsors, marketers and manufacturers must continue to expend time, effort and money in all areas of regulatory compliance, including production and quality control, to comply with these requirements. Also, discovery of problems such as safety problems may result in changes in labeling, restrictions on the product manufacturer and NDA/ANDA holder, imposition of risk evaluation and mitigation strategies and/or removal of the product from the market. Foreign Regulation Approval of a product by comparable regulatory authorities may be necessary in foreign countries prior to the commencement of marketing of the product in those countries, whether or not FDA approval has been obtained. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve requirements for additional testing. The time required may differ from that required for FDA approval. Although there are some procedures for unified filings for some European countries, such as the sponsorship of the country which first granted marketing approval, in general each country has its own procedures and requirements, many of which are time consuming and expensive. Thus, there can be substantial delays in obtaining required approvals from foreign regulatory authorities after the relevant applications are filed. Regulation of Controlled Substances We, our contract manufacturers and packagers and our products and product candidates (in particular, CRTX 067, which contains hydrocodone) are subject to the Controlled Substances Act and DEA regulations thereunder. Accordingly, we and our contract manufacturer and packager for CRTX 067 must adhere to a number of requirements, including registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements; security controls; and, assuming regulatory approval is received, labeling and packaging requirements and certain restrictions on prescription refills. In addition, a DEA quota system controls and limits the availability and production of certain controlled substances, including hydrocodone, which are or may be used in our products or product candidates. The DEA annually establishes aggregate quotas for how much of each controlled substance may be produced based on the DEA’s estimate of the quantity needed to meet legitimate scientific and medical needs. The limited aggregate amounts of this substance that the DEA allows to be produced in the United States each year are allocated among individual companies, which must submit applications annually to the DEA for individual production and procurement quotas. A manufacturer or packager must receive an annual quota from the DEA in order to produce or procure any controlled substance product or product candidate. The DEA may adjust aggregate production quotas and individual production and procurement quotas from time to time during the year, and it has substantial discretion over whether to make such adjustments. Our contract manufacturers’ and packagers’ quotas may not be sufficient for us to complete clinical trials of our product candidates. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our contract manufacturers’ or packagers’ quotas for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The DEA conducts periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Failure by us or our contract manufacturers or packagers to maintain compliance with applicable requirements, particularly as manifested in loss or diversion, can result in enforcement action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings. Individual states also regulate controlled substances, and we and our contract manufacturers and packagers are subject to state regulation on distribution of these products. Hazardous Materials We rely on third parties to assist us in developing and manufacturing all of our products and do not directly handle, store or transport hazardous materials or waste products. We rely on third parties to comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. We do not expect the cost of complying with these laws and regulations to be material to us. Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement Our ability to commercialize our products successfully depends in significant part on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement to patients from third-party payers, including governmental payers such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, or MCOs, and private health insurers. We participate in a number of governmental programs that require us to provide rebates or discounts or otherwise limit reimbursement for our products. Under the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit, which took effect in January 2006, Medicare beneficiaries can obtain prescription drug coverage from private plans that are permitted to limit the number of prescription drugs that are covered on their formularies in each therapeutic category and class and to negotiate the prices to be paid for those drugs. Some Medicare Part D plans cover some or all of our products, but the amount and level of coverage vary from plan to plan. In addition, effective January 1, 2011, we were required to begin offering a 50% discount off of the plans’ negotiated prices on certain of our products to Medicare Part D beneficiaries during their coverage gap period. Our products may be excluded from private plans’ formularies and may be subject to significant price competition that depresses the prices we are able to charge. We believe that it is likely that private insurers will pattern their coverage and reimbursement policies on Medicare coverage and reimbursement policies with respect to prescription drug benefits. In addition, we participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, or MDRP, with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in order for our products to be reimbursable under government health care programs. The MDRP requires us to pay rebates to the state Medicaid programs based on either a specified percentage of the “average manufacturer price” or the difference between the average manufacturer price and the “best price.” In addition, in order to participate in the MDRP, we are required to enter into a similar agreement with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Furthermore, some states currently require (and more states may begin to require) manufacturers to enter into supplemental rebate agreements, and we have entered into such agreements with some states. We also participate in the Public Health Service’s 340B Drug Pricing Program and some of our products are purchased under the program. As a participant in the program, we are required to charge a discounted price for our products to certain types of covered entities, such as qualified disproportionate share hospitals. All of our products are generally covered by managed care and private insurance plans. Coverage by such plans for ZYFLO CR, FACTIVE and SPECTRACEF is similar to other products within the same class of drugs, but the status or tier of our products within each plan varies. A product’s placement within a plan’s status or tier structure can affect the out-of-pocket expense to the plan’s beneficiaries. For example, the position of FACTIVE as a branded product often requires a higher patient copayment, which may make it more difficult to expand the current market share for this product. 21 Table of Contents Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medicines and examining their cost-effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. In some cases, MCOs may require additional evidence that a patient had previously failed another therapy, additional paperwork or prior authorization from the MCO before approving reimbursement for SPECTRACEF. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA approvals. Even with these studies, our products may be considered less safe, less effective or less cost-effective than existing products, and third-party payers may decide not to provide coverage and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. Even if third-party payers approve coverage and reimbursement for our products, the resulting payment rates may not be sufficient for us to sell our products at a profit. Moreover, political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry in the United States to fundamental changes with respect to pricing and reimbursement. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which contain cost-containment measures and health care reforms to be implemented over the next decade, were signed into law. We refer to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 as Health Care Reform. The provisions of Health Care Reform that are likely to impact our pricing and reimbursement for our products include the requirement to provide a 50% discount off negotiated prices to applicable brand-name drugs for Medicare Part D beneficiaries during their coverage gap period; an increase in the Medicaid rebates that we must pay to state Medicaid programs under the MDRP; the inclusion of Medicaid MCO enrollees in the calculation of rebates owed under the MDRP; the revised definition of average manufacturer price for rebate reporting purposes; and an increase in the number of entities eligible for discounted pricing under the 340B Drug Pricing Program. In addition, proposed regulations implementing the calculation and reporting requirements for average manufacturer price and best price were published in the Federal Register on February 2, 2012; we cannot predict whether and in what form these regulations will be made final, and what effect these regulations may have on our pricing and reimbursement. Furthermore, Health Care Reform includes initiatives to study and implement payment reforms and cost-containment measures, the results of which could reduce reimbursement for our products and reduce our profits. We anticipate that Congress, state legislatures and the private sector will continue to consider and may adopt further health care policies intended to curb rising health care costs. These cost-containment measures could include, for example: • controls on government-funded reimbursement for drugs; • controls on payments to health care providers that affect demand for drug products; • challenges to the pricing of drugs or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific products through other means; • weakening of restrictions on imports of drugs; and • expansion of the use of managed care systems in which health care providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person. We may also face competition for our products from lower-priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. Although not implemented by Health Care Reform, potential future federal legislation may expand consumers’ ability to import lower-priced versions of competing products from Canada and other countries. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our business and prospects. We are unable to predict how all or portions of Health Care Reform will be implemented, what additional legislation, regulations or policies, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation, regulations or policies would have on our business. Any cost-containment measures, including those listed above, or other health care system reforms that are adopted could impair our ability to set prices that cover our costs, constrain our ability to generate revenue from government-funded or private third-party payers, limit the revenue and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators and impede our access to capital needed to operate and grow. Any of these circumstances could significantly limit our ability to operate profitably. 22 Table of Contents Fraud and Abuse Regulation A number of federal and state laws and related regulations, loosely referred to as fraud and abuse laws, are used to prosecute health care providers, suppliers, physicians and others that fraudulently or wrongfully obtain reimbursement for health care products or services from government health programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, or private insurers. These laws are extremely complicated, apply broadly and may constrain our business and the financial arrangements through which we market, sell and distribute our products. Examples of these laws and regulations include: • Federal Anti-Kickback Law. The anti-kickback law contained in the federal Social Security Act is a criminal statute that makes it a felony for individuals or entities knowingly and willfully to offer or pay, or to solicit or receive, remuneration in order to induce the purchase, order, lease or recommending of items or services, or the referral of patients for services, that are reimbursed under a federal health care program, including Medicare and Medicaid. The term “remuneration” has been interpreted broadly and includes both direct and indirect compensation and other items and services of value. Both the party offering or paying remuneration and the recipient may be found to have violated the statute. Courts have interpreted the anti-kickback law to cover any arrangement where one purpose of the remuneration is to induce purchases or referrals, regardless of whether there are also legitimate purposes for the arrangement. There are narrow exemptions and regulatory safe harbors, but many legitimate transactions fall outside of the scope of any exemption or safe harbor, although that does not necessarily mean the arrangement will be subject to penalties under the anti-kickback statute. Penalties for federal anti-kickback violations are severe, including up to five years imprisonment, individual and corporate criminal fines, exclusion from participation in federal health care programs and civil monetary penalties in the form of treble damages plus $50,000 for each violation of the statute. Health Care Reform amended the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute so that a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. Violations of the federal anti-kickback statute may now also be treated as a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal false claims act or a violation of the criminal health care fraud law. • Federal False Claims Law. The federal false claims act imposes liability on any person who knowingly submits, or causes another person or entity to submit, a false or fraudulent claim for payment of government funds or knowingly makes a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. Penalties include three times the government’s damages plus civil penalties of $5,500 to $11,000 per false claim. In addition, the federal false claims act permits a person with knowledge of fraud, referred to as a qui tam plaintiff or “whistleblower,” to file a lawsuit on behalf of the government against the person or entity that committed the fraud. If the government determines to intervene in the lawsuit and the government prevails, the qui tam plaintiff is rewarded with a percentage of the recovery. • Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. The HIPAA statute imposes criminal liability for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program. It also prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up any material fact or making any materially false or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. Furthermore, HIPAA imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. • Other Federal Criminal and Civil Health Care Laws. The Social Security Act contains numerous penalties for fraud and abuse in the health care industry, such as imposition of a civil monetary penalty, a monetary assessment, exclusion from participation in federal health care programs or a combination of these penalties. • State Laws. Various states have enacted laws and regulations comparable to the federal fraud and abuse laws and regulations. These state laws and regulations may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including private payers, commercial insurers and other payers. Moreover, these laws and regulations vary significantly from state to state and, in some cases, are broader than the federal laws 23 Table of Contents and regulations. These differences increase the costs of compliance and the risk that the same arrangements may be subject to different compliance standards in different states. In addition, there is a trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. Health Care Reform includes examples of this trend. Beginning in 2012, pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors must provide the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services with an annual report of the drug samples requested by and provided to health care practitioners. Beginning in 2013, pharmaceutical manufacturers will be required to report information to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians during the preceding calendar year, which information will later be made publicly available. Pharmaceutical manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose physician ownership and investment interests in such manufacturers. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”) for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. Various states currently require or have proposed legislation that would require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses related to marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and gifts and payments to physicians within the states. Employees As of February 29, 2012, we had 116 full-time employees, 78 of whom were engaged in marketing and sales; 11 of whom were engaged in research, development and regulatory affairs; and 27 of whom were engaged in management, administration and finance. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages. We believe that relations with our employees are good. Available Information We maintain a web site with the address www.crtx.com. We are not including the information contained on our web site as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report. We make available, free of charge, on or through our web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, a copy of any exhibit to this annual report on Form 10-K will be furnished free of charge upon written request by one of our stockholders directed as follows: Attn: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Cornerstone Therapeutics Inc., 1255 Crescent Green Drive, Suite 250, Cary, NC 27518. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K and the other reports that we file with the SEC, in evaluating us and our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Commercialization and Product Acquisitions We use third parties to manufacture all of our products and product candidates. This may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our products or product candidates at an acceptable cost, which could delay, impair or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates or our ability to meet commercial demands for our products. We have no manufacturing facilities and rely on third parties to purchase raw materials for, manufacture, package and supply all of our products. Some of the agreements we have entered into are exclusive agreements in which the manufacturer is a single-source supplier, preventing us from using alternative sources. Similarly, many 24 Table of Contents of our agreements may require us to make volume commitments or agree to long-term pricing arrangements that may affect our margins or constrain our ability to position our products optimally in the market. If we choose to cancel or are unable to meet our volume commitments, we may be subject to penalties or increased costs to manufacture our products. For a description of the manufacturing and packaging agreements related to our more important products, please see “Item 1. Business — Manufacturing.” If any of the third-party manufacturers with whom we contract fails to perform its obligations, we may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including the following: • We may not be able to meet commercial demands for our products; • We may be required to cease distribution or issue recalls; • We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials of product candidates that are under development; and • We may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for product candidates. We may not be able to enter into alternative supply arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. If we were required to change manufacturers, we would be required to obtain FDA approval of an sNDA covering the new manufacturing site. In addition, we would be required to conduct additional clinical bioequivalence trials to demonstrate that the products manufactured by the new manufacturer are equivalent to the products manufactured by the current manufacturer, which could take 12 to 18 months or possibly longer. The technical transfer of manufacturing capabilities can be difficult. Any delays associated with the approval of a new manufacturer could adversely affect the production schedule or increase our production costs and could ultimately lead to a shortage of supply in the market. Additionally, FDA regulations restrict the manufacture of penicillin products in the same facility that manufactures a cephalosporin such as the SPECTRACEF products. These restrictions reduce the number of cGMP FDA-approved facilities that are able to manufacture cephalosporins, which could complicate our ability to quickly qualify a new manufacturer for the SPECTRACEF products. We also rely on third-party manufacturers that, in some instances, have encountered difficulties obtaining raw materials needed to manufacture our product candidates as a result of DEA regulations. Although these difficulties have not had a material adverse impact on us, such problems could have a material adverse impact on us in the future. In addition, supply interruptions or delays could occur that require us or our manufacturers to obtain substitute materials or products, which would require additional regulatory approvals. Changes in our raw material suppliers could result in delays in production, higher raw material costs and loss of sales and customers because regulatory authorities must generally approve raw material sources for pharmaceutical products. Any significant supply interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we import the API, tablet cores and/or finished product for all of our products from third parties that manufacture such items outside the United States, and we expect to do so in the future. This may give rise to difficulties in obtaining API, tablet cores or finished product in a timely manner as a result of, among other things, regulatory agency import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. For example, in January 2009, the FDA released draft guidance on Good Importer Practices, which, if adopted, will impose additional requirements on us with respect to oversight of our third-party manufacturers outside the United States. The FDA has stated that it will inspect 100% of API, tablet cores and finished product that is imported into the United States. If the FDA requires additional documentation from third-party manufacturers relating to the safety or intended use of the API or finished product, the importation of the API or finished product could be delayed. While in transit from outside the United States or while stored with our third-party logistics provider, DDN, our API, tablet cores or finished product could be lost or suffer damage, which would render such items unusable. We have attempted to take appropriate risk mitigation steps and to obtain transit or casualty insurance. However, depending upon when the loss or damage occurs, we may have limited recourse for recovery against our manufacturers or insurers. As a result, our financial performance could be impacted by any such loss or damage. 25 Table of Contents The commercial success of our currently marketed products and any additional products that we successfully develop or bring to market depends on the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers and others in the medical community. Any products that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, health care payers and others in the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of our products, including our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the prevalence and severity of the products’ side effects; • the efficacy and potential advantages of the products over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer the products for sale at competitive prices, including in relation to any generic or re-imported products or competing treatments; • the relative convenience and ease of administration of the products; • the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; • the perception by physicians and other members of the health care community of the safety and efficacy of the products and competing products; • the availability and level of third-party reimbursement for sales of the products; • the continued availability of adequate supplies of the products to meet demand; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; • any unfavorable publicity concerning us, our products or the markets for these products, such as information concerning product contamination or other safety issues in the markets for our products, whether or not directly involving our products; • regulatory developments related to our marketing and promotional practices or the manufacture or continued use of our products; and • changes in intellectual property protection available for the products or competing treatments. If our products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenue and may not be able to return to profitability. Our strategy of obtaining, through product acquisitions and in-licenses, rights to products and product candidates for our development pipeline and to proprietary drug delivery and formulation technologies for our life cycle management of current products may not be successful. Because we do not have discovery and research capabilities, the growth of our business will depend in significant part on our ability to acquire or in-license additional products, product candidates or proprietary drug delivery and formulation technologies that we believe have significant commercial potential and are consistent with our commercial objectives. However, we may be unable to license or acquire suitable products, product candidates or technologies from third parties for a number of reasons. The licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical products, product candidates and related technologies is a competitive area, and a number of more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire products, product candidates and drug delivery and formulation technologies, which may mean fewer suitable acquisition opportunities for us, as well as higher acquisition prices. Many of our competitors have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash resources and greater clinical development and commercialization capabilities. 26 Table of Contents Other factors that may prevent us from licensing or otherwise acquiring suitable products, product candidates or technologies include: • We may be unable to license or acquire the relevant products, product candidates or technologies on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return on investment; • Companies that perceive us as a competitor may be unwilling to license or sell their product rights or technologies to us; • We may be unable to identify suitable products, product candidates or technologies within our areas of expertise; and • We may have inadequate cash resources or may be unable to obtain financing to acquire rights to suitable products, product candidates or technologies from third parties. If we are not successful in identifying and acquiring rights to products, or if we are not successful in developing product candidates, we may not be able to increase our revenues in future periods, which could result in significant harm to our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We face competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than us. The development and commercialization of drugs is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to our currently marketed products, our current product candidates and any products that we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future. Our competitors include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other private and public research organizations that seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for development, manufacturing and commercialization. We face significant competition for our currently marketed products. Some or all of our product candidates, if approved, may face competition from other branded and generic drugs approved for the same therapeutic indications, approved drugs used off label for such indications and novel drugs in clinical development. For example, CRTX 073, which is a modified formulation of an existing product, may not demonstrate sufficient additional clinical benefits to health care providers to justify a higher price compared to generic equivalents within the same therapeutic class. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, safer, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our patents will not protect our products if competitors devise ways of making products that compete with our products without legally infringing our patents. The FDCA and FDA regulations and policies provide certain exclusivity incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of ANDAs for generic substitutes. These same types of exclusivity incentives encourage manufacturers to submit NDAs that rely, in part, on literature and clinical data not prepared for or by such manufacturers. Manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their product has the same API, dosage form, strength, route of administration and conditions of use or labeling as our product and that the generic product is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as our product, a comparison known as bioequivalence. Such products would be significantly less costly than our products to bring to market and could lead to the existence of multiple lower-priced competitive products, which would substantially limit our ability to obtain a return on the investments we have made in those products. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their product candidates more rapidly than we may obtain approval for our product candidates. The FDCA provides a five-year period of exclusivity for a drug approved under the first NDA covering an API, and the drug approval for any of our product candidates may be blocked by such a period of marketing exclusivity. Similarly, the FDCA provides a three-year period of exclusivity for a drug approved under the first NDA covering a new indication or formulation of a drug that includes a previously approved API. These provisions may delay approval of our product candidates. 27 Table of Contents Even if we are not excluded from obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates, it may adversely affect the revenue potential of those product candidates if our competitors succeed in commercializing similar products more rapidly or effectively than we are able to. For instance, in October 2010, one of our competitors, Par Pharmaceuticals, with its licensing partner, Tris Pharma, Inc., launched an FDA-approved generic hydrocodone polistirex and chlorpheniramine polistirex extended-release oral suspension product, which, like our CRTX 067 product candidate, is a generic version of UCB’s, Tussionex. In addition, UCB launched its own generic version of Tussionex, through its generic subsidiary, Kremers Urban Pharmaceuticals Inc., which would make us the third entrant into the Tussionex generic market. While we continue to expect that CRTX 067 will receive marketing approval by the FDA in 2012, the presence of competing products in the market may adversely affect both the price we can charge for our product and the portion of the market for that product that may be available to us. The principal competitors to our products and potential competitors to our product candidates are more fully described under the caption “Competition” in Item 1 above. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and superior expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products and thus may be better equipped than us to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize products. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites, registering patients for clinical trials and acquiring technologies. Many of our competitors have collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. In many cases, products that compete with our currently marketed products and product candidates have already received regulatory approval or are in late-stage development, have well known brand names, are distributed by large pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources and have achieved widespread acceptance among physicians and patients. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. We will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our products, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products, or products with more effective patent protection, than our products. Accordingly, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we are able to, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our product candidates will achieve initial market acceptance and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our product candidates. Even if our product candidates achieve initial market acceptance, competitive products may render our products noncompetitive. If our product candidates are rendered noncompetitive, we may not be able to recover the expenses of developing and commercializing those product candidates. If we are unable to identify and acquire products and/or companies, and if we cannot integrate them efficiently, our business and ability to realize the value of completed acquisitions, or ability to develop our product candidates and expand our product pipeline may be harmed. Our plan to grow our existing product portfolio is based upon our ability to acquire or in-license products and to acquire companies that fit with our strategic focus. These acquisitions and licenses involve risks. For example: • We may not be able to identify suitable companies to acquire or to acquire such companies on favorable terms. We compete with others in the pharmaceutical industry to acquire companies. We believe that this competition may increase and could result in decreased availability or increased prices for suitable acquisition candidates. • During the acquisition process, we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of companies or products that we acquire. • We may overuse our cash resources. 28 Table of Contents • We may experience higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses. • We may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions. • We may fail to integrate acquired companies or products into our business successfully. • Acquired businesses or products may not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain the financial improvements and results we anticipate. In addition, the development and integration of new companies or products could disrupt our business and occupy our management’s time and attention. • We face the risk that our existing financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources will need to grow to support future growth. • We may be unable to preserve key suppliers or distributors of any acquired products. • We may issue equity securities to acquire companies or products, which may result in dilution. • Any acquisition could substantially increase our amortization expenses. For example, we entered into a license and distribution agreement with Chiesi for CUROSURF that extends to 2019. There is no assurance that the net sales of CUROSURF will be sufficient to offset the net income per share impact of increased amortization expense and the dilutive effect of the shares issued to Chiesi. If we fail to address adequately the financial, operational or legal risks of our acquisitions or licensing arrangements, or if we are unable to integrate our acquisitions successfully, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As our competitors introduce their own pharmaceutical and/or therapeutic equivalents of our products, our net revenues from such products are expected to decline. Product sales of pharmaceutical and/or therapeutic equivalents often follow a particular pattern over time based on regulatory and competitive factors. The first company to introduce an equivalent of a branded product is often able to capture a substantial share of the market. However, as other companies introduce competing equivalent products, the first entrant’s market share, and the price of its equivalent product, will typically decline. The extent of the decline generally depends on several factors, including the number of competitors, the price of the branded product and the pricing strategy of the new competitors. For example, in the generic drug industry, when a company is the first to introduce a generic drug, the pricing of the generic drug is typically set based on a discount from the published price of the equivalent branded product. Other generic manufacturers or a manufacturer contracted to market an authorized generic to the brand may enter the market and, as a result, the price of the drug may decline significantly. In such event, we may in our discretion provide our customers a credit with respect to the customers’ remaining inventory for the difference between our new price and the price at which we originally sold the product to our customers. There are circumstances under which we may, as a matter of business strategy, not provide price adjustments to certain customers and, consequently, we may lose future sales to competitors. Our inability to introduce generic equivalents to our branded products or our withdrawal of existing products from the market due to increased competition would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluoroquinolone products have been associated with the risk of tendonitis and tendon ruptures. FACTIVE is a fluoroquinolone product and must comply with the FDA directives on prescribing information for fluoroquinolones. In July 2008, the FDA notified manufacturers of fluoroquinolones that it was directing the prescribing information for all fluoroquinolone products, including FACTIVE (gemifloxacin mesylate), be revised to include a boxed warning relating to the risk of tendonitis and tendon rupture associated with the use of fluoroquinolone 29 Table of Contents products. Warnings regarding the risk of tendon-related adverse events were already included in the prescribing information, as part of a class labeling, for all fluoroquinolones. The FDA has cautioned that such risk is increased in patients over the age of 60 and in those on concomitant corticosteroid therapy, as well as kidney, heart and lung transplant recipients. The FDA also required a medication guide to be included in each FACTIVE package. In April 2009, the FDA approved changes to the FACTIVE package insert and its medication guide as part of its approval of the Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, for FACTIVE. We began using the package insert and medication guide when we began earning revenues from FACTIVE in September 2009. We submitted our initial REMS assessment in May 2011. The FDA responded to this submission in August 2011 advising us to implement changes to our medication guide and that we could cancel our remaining REMS program assessments. The recommended changes to our medication guide were implemented in August 2011. We cannot predict what further action, if any, the FDA may take, including, among others things, further label restrictions in the fluoroquinolone class or even the removal of indications or products from the market. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of FACTIVE or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercialization, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from sales of this product. Concerns regarding the safety profile of ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO may limit market acceptance of ZYFLO CR. Market perceptions about the safety of ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO may limit the market acceptance of ZYFLO CR. In the clinical trials that were reviewed by the FDA prior to its approval of ZYFLO, 3.2% of the approximately 5,000 patients who received ZYFLO experienced increased levels of ALT of over three times the levels normally seen in the bloodstream. In these trials, one patient developed symptomatic hepatitis with jaundice, which resolved upon discontinuation of therapy, and three patients developed mild elevations in bilirubin. In clinical trials for ZYFLO CR, 1.94% of the patients taking ZYFLO CR in a three-month efficacy trial and 2.6% of the patients taking ZYFLO CR in a six-month safety trial experienced ALT levels greater than or equal to three times the level normally seen in the bloodstream. Because ZYFLO CR can elevate liver enzyme levels, its product labeling, which was approved by the FDA in May 2007, contains the recommendation that periodic liver function tests be performed on patients taking ZYFLO CR. Some physicians and patients may perceive liver function tests as inconvenient or indicative of safety issues, which could make them reluctant to prescribe or accept ZYFLO CR, ZYFLO or any other zileuton product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize, which could limit their commercial acceptance. In March 2008, the FDA issued an early communication regarding an ongoing safety review of the leukotriene montelukast relating to suicide and other behavior-related adverse events. In that communication, the FDA stated that it was also reviewing the safety of other leukotriene medications. On May 27, 2008, we received a request from the FDA that we gather and provide to the FDA data from the clinical trial database to evaluate behavior-related adverse events for ZYFLO and ZYFLO CR. On January 13, 2009, the FDA announced that the company studies it reviewed do not show any association between these drugs that act through the leukotriene pathway (for example, montelukast, zafirlukast and zileuton) and suicide, although the FDA noted that these studies were not designed to detect those events. The FDA also reviewed clinical trial data to assess other mood-related and behavior-related adverse events related to such drugs. On April 23, 2009, the FDA requested that we add wording to the precaution section of the ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO labeling to include post-marketing reports of sleep disorders and neuropsychiatric events. It is our understanding that other leukotriene modulator manufacturers were asked to make similar changes. There is a risk that this labeling change may cause physicians and other members of the health care community to prefer competing products without such labeling over ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO, which would cause sales of these products to suffer. Safety concerns regarding ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO, actual or perceived, may adversely impact the market for ZYFLO CR and ZYFLO, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the sale of our currently marketed products, previously marketed products that have been withdrawn or discontinued, any other products that we successfully develop and the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials. If we cannot successfully defend against claims that our products or product candidates caused injuries, we could incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products or any products that we may develop; • injury to our reputation; • the withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • the recall and/or withdrawal of a product from the market; • costs to defend the related litigation; • substantial monetary damages awards to clinical trial participants or plaintiffs, whether through settlement or trial; • diversion of management time and attention; • loss of revenue; and • inability to commercialize the products that we may develop. As discussed in the risk factors above, there are concerns regarding the safety of the products containing the APIs gemifloxacin or zileuton. In addition, in November 2010, the FDA requested that all products containing the API propoxyphene be voluntarily withdrawn from the market due to safety concerns. All of our products containing propoxyphene have been removed from the market. We are aware of various pending product liability claims which have been asserted in lawsuits against numerous developers, manufacturers and distributors of propoxyphene products. A large number of those lawsuits have been consolidated into multidistrict litigation, or MDL, proceedings in the United States District Court, Eastern District of Kentucky (Northern Division), and we expect that the large majority of future lawsuits that are filed will continue to be consolidated in these MDL proceedings or in a complex litigation department in California state court. We have been named in a small number of those lawsuits, and, to date, we have been served with legal process in five such suits. For a more complete discussion regarding these lawsuits, please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” in this annual report on Form 10-K. We had a less than 1% share of the market for propoxyphene products, and we believe that the probability that a party alleging injury could definitively link that injury to our products is low based on current facts known to us. In light of recent case law, we believe that plaintiffs will have difficulty explaining why their claims are not preempted by federal regulatory laws. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are likely to face significant liability in connection with the claims asserted against developers, manufacturers and distributors of propoxyphene products based on current facts known to us at this stage of this litigation. Our contracts with wholesalers and other customers require us to carry product liability insurance. We have primary and excess product liability insurance coverage to meet these obligations. Our primary coverage offers a $10 million per claim and annual aggregate limit. The excess policy offers an additional $10 million per claim and annual aggregate limit. The annual cost of our product liability insurance was approximately $303,000 for the policy year beginning September 13, 2011. In addition, our products liability insurance coverage for 2012 specifically excludes liability related to propoxyphene products. In the event that we are found liable for injuries caused by our products, if defenses are unsuccessful, or if adverse facts are learned, we could face significant liability that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and the amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate cover all liabilities that we may incur. 31 Table of Contents We may rely on third parties to market and promote some products, and these third parties may not successfully commercialize these products. We may seek to enter into co-promotion arrangements to enhance our promotional efforts and, therefore, sales of our products. By entering into agreements with pharmaceutical companies that have experienced sales forces with strong management support, we can reach health care providers in areas where we have limited or no sales force representation, thus expanding the reach of our sales and marketing programs. Without co-promotion arrangements, we may not be able to devote sufficient financial resources or capabilities to independently promote and market products which could limit our sales to certain specialties or in certain geographical areas. However, we might not be able to enter into such an arrangement on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to attract, hire and retain qualified sales and marketing personnel, the commercial opportunity for our products and product candidates may be diminished. We have built a commercial organization, consisting at February 29, 2012 of 63 sales professionals in a variety of sales and management positions. Our sales organization is divided into a hospital sales force and a respiratory sales force. Our sales teams are supported by marketing, market research and commercial operations professionals. We may not be able to attract, hire, train and retain qualified sales and marketing personnel to augment our existing capabilities in the manner or on the timeframe that we plan. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to expand our sales force and marketing capabilities, our ability to independently market and promote our products and any product candidates that we successfully bring to market will be impaired. In such an event, we would likely need to establish a collaboration, co-promotion, distribution or other similar arrangement to market and sell our products and product candidates. The concentration of our product sales to only a few wholesale distributors increases the risk that we will not be able to effectively distribute our products if we need to replace any of these customers, which would cause our sales to decline. The majority of our sales are to a small number of pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, which in turn sell our products primarily to retail and hospital pharmacies, which ultimately dispense our products to the end consumers. Consolidation within the wholesale drug distribution industry has occurred and may continue to occur. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. Sales to our three primary wholesale distributors, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health and McKesson Corporation, collectively accounted for approximately 94% of our gross product sales during 2011. The loss of any of these wholesale distributors or a material reduction in their purchases could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to enter into agreements with replacement wholesale distributors on commercially reasonable terms. Our business could suffer as a result of a failure to manage and maintain our distribution network. We do not have our own warehouse or distribution capabilities, we lack the resources and experience to establish any of these functions, and we do not intend to establish these functions in the foreseeable future. We rely on third parties to distribute our products to pharmacies. We have contracted with DDN, a third-party logistics company, for the distribution of our products to wholesalers, retail drug stores, mass merchandisers and grocery stores in the United States. We also depend on the distribution abilities of our wholesale customers to ensure that products are effectively distributed throughout the supply chain. If there are any interruptions in our customers’ ability to distribute products through their distribution centers, our products may not be effectively distributed, which could cause confusion and frustration among pharmacists and lead to product substitution. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, several Cardinal Health distribution centers were placed on probation by the DEA and were prohibited from distributing controlled substances. Although Cardinal Health had a plan in place to re-route all orders to the next closest distribution center for fulfillment, system inefficiency resulted in a failure to effectively distribute our products to all areas. 32 Table of Contents Our distribution network requires significant coordination with our supply chain, sales and marketing and finance organizations. If we are unable to effectively manage and maintain our distribution network, sales of our products could be severely compromised and our business could be harmed. In addition, failure to maintain our third-party contracts or a third party’s inability or failure to adequately perform as agreed under its contract with us could negatively impact us. If any of the third parties that we rely upon for assistance in researching, developing, manufacturing, promoting and distributing our products and product candidates experience financial distress and are unable to provide this assistance, our operating performance would be adversely affected. Economic unpredictability could adversely affect the third parties upon whom we rely for researching, developing, manufacturing, promoting and distributing our products and product candidates. We believe that some of the third parties upon which we rely depend on financing from banks, financial institutions and other third-party financing sources in order to finance their operations. The current economic environment may make it more difficult or impossible for these third parties to obtain additional financing or extend the terms of their current financing. Some of these third parties may be highly leveraged, and if they are unable to service their indebtedness, such failure could adversely affect their ability to maintain their operations and to meet their contractual obligations to us, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure to maintain optimal inventory levels could harm our reputation and subject us to financial losses. Because accurate product planning is necessary to ensure that we maintain optimal inventory levels, significant differences between our current estimates and judgments and future estimated demand for our products and the useful life of inventory may result in significant charges for excess inventory or purchase commitments in the future. If we are required to recognize charges for excess inventories, such charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are obligated to make aggregate combined purchases of cefditoren pivoxil API, the SPECTRACEF products and sample packs of SPECTRACEF 400 mg exceeding specified dollar amounts annually over a five-year period under our supply agreement with Meiji. Under the agreement, the required annual aggregate combined purchases of cefditoren pivoxil API, the SPECTRACEF products and sample packs of SPECTRACEF 400 mg are $25.0 million for the sales year ending October 2011, $30.0 million for the sales year ending October 2012 and $35.0 million for the sales year ending October 2013. If we do not meet our minimum purchase requirement in a given year, we must pay Meiji an amount equal to 50% of the shortfall in that year. We are also subject to minimum purchase obligations under supply agreements, which require us to purchase inventory of the tablet cores for ZYFLO CR. We have committed to purchase a minimum of 20 million ZYFLO CR tablet cores from Jagotec in each of the four 12-month periods starting May 30, 2008. If ZYFLO CR does not achieve the level of demand we anticipate, we are required to pay a penalty of 20% of the cost of the minimum inventory requirements we do not purchase. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred a penalty of $413,964. Based on our current expectations regarding demand for ZYFLO CR, we expect that we will pay penalties under the supply agreement which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Product acquisitions typically include the purchase of existing inventory. If the previous company has distributed product to the wholesalers and distributors that exceeds current demand, such inventory levels could affect our ability to sell product to the wholesalers. Until the inventory levels decline, revenues for the acquired product could be minimal. For example, when we acquired FACTIVE, the wholesaler and distributor levels of inventory exceeded demand, which prevented us from selling significant amounts of product for the first three months following the acquisition. Our ability to maintain optimal inventory levels also depends on the performance of third-party contract manufacturers. In some instances, third-party manufacturers have encountered difficulties obtaining raw materials needed to manufacture our product candidates as a result of DEA regulations and because of the limited 33 Table of Contents number of suppliers of certain APIs. Although these difficulties have not had a material adverse impact on us, such problems could have a material adverse impact on us in the future. If we are unable to manufacture and release inventory on a timely and consistent basis, if we fail to maintain an adequate level of product inventory, if inventory is destroyed or damaged or if our inventory reaches its expiration date, patients might not have access to our products, our reputation and our brands could be harmed and physicians may be less likely to prescribe our products in the future, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our third-party manufacturers and packagers do not obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances needed to supply us with our product candidates or products or the quotas are not sufficient, our product launches may be delayed or we may be unable to meet commercial demand for our products following launch. CRTX 067 contains hydrocodone, a controlled substance which is regulated by the DEA under the Controlled Substances Act. DEA quota requirements limit the amount of controlled substance drug products a manufacturer may manufacture, the amount of API it may use to manufacture those products and the amount of controlled substance drug products a packager may package. We rely on the third-party manufacturer and packager of this product candidate, Neos and Coating Place, respectively, to request and obtain from the DEA the annual quota allocation needed to meet our production requirements for CRTX 067, and we will continue to rely on Neos and Coating Place to obtain necessary quotas following launch. If Neos and Coating Place are unsuccessful in obtaining quotas, CRTX 067 could be at risk of a delayed launch or we may be unable to meet commercial demand following launch. If we or our contract manufacturers or packagers fail to comply with regulatory requirements for any controlled substance products and product candidates, the DEA may take regulatory actions detrimental to our business, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution, withdrawal of products from the market or other penalties. We, our contract manufacturers and packagers and our products and product candidates (in particular, CRTX 067) are subject to the Controlled Substances Act and DEA regulations thereunder. Accordingly, we and our contract manufacturer and packager for CRTX 067 must adhere to a number of requirements with respect to CRTX 067, including registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements; labeling and packaging requirements; security controls; procurement and manufacturing quotas; and certain restrictions on prescription refills. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings. Failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements can result in enforcement action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Product Development and Regulatory Matters If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements for our products or if we experience unanticipated problems with them, the FDA may take regulatory actions detrimental to our business, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution, withdrawal of products from the market or other penalties. We, our products, our contract manufacturers and our other partners are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information; record-keeping and reporting; annual registration of manufacturing facilities and listing of products with the FDA; ongoing compliance with cGMP regulations; and requirements regarding advertising, promotion and the distribution of samples to physicians and related recordkeeping. For example, we received a warning letter from the FDA’s Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communications on June 22, 2010 relating to certain promotional and labeling material for our ZYFLO CR extended release tablets. The FDA asserted that our ZYFLO CR webpage was false and misleading because it presented efficacy claims for ZYFLO CR, but failed to contain certain risk information associated with the product, and that certain promotional material was false or 34 Table of Contents misleading because it omitted important information about the risks associated with the use of ZYFLO CR, made unsubstantiated superiority claims and omitted material facts. Additionally, the FDA stated that the web page and promotional material were disseminated with an outdated version of the FDA-approved product labeling for ZYFLO CR. Although we did not admit and in fact denied some of FDA’s allegations, as part of our response and in connection with the close out of this matter, we ceased dissemination of the relevant promotional materials, disabled and revised the web page, retrieved and destroyed the relevant promotional materials and updated our procedures regarding promotional material and labeling. We disseminated updated messaging to the recipients of the aforementioned promotional materials and updated our website to include corrective messaging consistent with the FDA’s observations. The corrective messaging was required to remain on our website for 12 months from implementation, or February 2, 2012. We will seek formal FDA closure of this matter in early 2012. Going forward, if our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations and guidelines, we could be subject to additional regulatory actions by the FDA, including product seizure, injunctions and other penalties, and, if so, our business and reputation could be harmed. Under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, the FDA is also authorized, among other things, to require the submission of REMS with NDAs, or post-approval upon the discovery of new safety information, to monitor and address potential product safety issues. The FDAAA also grants the FDA the authority to mandate labeling changes in certain circumstances and establishes requirements for registering and disclosing the results of clinical trials. The manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities used to make our products and product candidates are also subject to comprehensive regulatory requirements. While we generally negotiate for the right under our long-term manufacturing contracts to periodically audit our third-party manufacturers’ performance, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with applicable regulations. Our current quality assurance program may not be reasonably designed to, or may not, discover all instances of non-compliance by our third-party manufacturers with these regulations. For instance, in 2004, the FDA inspected the predecessor company to one of our current development partners and, as a result of alleged failure of the manufacturer to comply with cGMPs, the FDA issued a warning letter to the manufacturer. Subsequent action by the FDA related to the 2004 warning letter resulted in a permanent injunction, or consent decree, in 2007 against the manufacturer. The manufacturer is working closely with their FDA district office to satisfy the conditions of the injunction; however, the manufacturer remains under the auspices of the consent decree at this point in time. The FDA periodically inspects sponsors, marketers and manufacturers for compliance with these requirements. On March 24, 2010, the FDA issued us a Notice of Inspectional Observations, or Form 483, in connection with a March 2010 inspection of our cGMPs. The Form 483 stated that the following were areas of possible non-compliance with FDA regulations: our processes related to the review of batch specific documentation, analytical information, deviations and investigations prior to releasing finished product for distribution; our validation assessment procedure; and our documentation related to product complaints, the resultant investigations and close out. We responded to the FDA on May 5, 2010 and took actions to address each of the observations identified by the FDA in the Form 483 as quickly as practicable. The FDA agreed with and accepted our corrective response. If the FDA makes additional inspectional observations in other inspections or is not satisfied with the corrective actions we take in response to the Form 483, we could be subject to further FDA action, including sanctions. We may also be subject to sanctions as a result of discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Possible sanctions include the following: • withdrawal of the products from the market; • restrictions on the marketing or distribution of such products; • restrictions on the manufacturers or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; 35 Table of Contents • recalls; • fines; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • product seizures; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to develop safe and efficacious formulations of our product candidates, or our clinical trials for our product candidates are not successful, we may not be able to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our product candidates successfully. Although it is our strategy to focus our development efforts on late-stage product candidates, some of our product candidates may be in the preclinical stage of development and require clinical testing necessary to obtain the regulatory approvals or clearances required for commercial sale. Depending on the nature of the product candidate, to demonstrate a product candidate’s safety and efficacy, we and our collaborators generally must either demonstrate bioequivalence with a drug already approved by the FDA or complete human clinical efficacy trials. We may not be able to obtain permission from the FDA, IRBs or other authorities to commence or complete necessary clinical trials. If permitted, such clinical testing may not prove that our product candidates are safe and effective to the extent necessary to permit us to obtain marketing approvals or clearances from regulatory authorities. One or more of our product candidates may not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans, may cause harmful side effects or may have other characteristics that may delay or preclude submission and regulatory approval, or cause imposition of burdensome post-approval requirements or limit commercial use if approved. Furthermore, we, one of our collaborators, IRBs or regulatory agencies may order a clinical hold or suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if it is believed that the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our product candidates could require us to conduct additional clinical trials, result in increased costs and significantly delay the submission for marketing approval or clearance for such product candidates with the FDA or other regulatory authorities or result in failure to obtain approval or approval for a narrower indication. If clinical trials fail, our product candidates would not receive regulatory approval or achieve commercial viability. If clinical trials for our product candidates are delayed, we would incur additional costs and delay the receipt of any revenues from product sales. We currently expect to commence clinical trials with respect to CRTX 073 in 2012. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed or planned clinical trials that will delay or cause regulatory authorities, IRBs or us to suspend those clinical trials or the analysis of data from such trials. Any of the following could delay the completion of our planned clinical trials: • we, the FDA, a third party assisting us with product development or an IRB suspending or stopping a clinical trial; • discussions with the FDA regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delay in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, required permissions from regulators, IRBs or other governing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • the number of patients required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; 36 Table of Contents • exposure of participants to unacceptable health risks; • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials, or we may abandon projects that had appeared to be promising; • we or our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or contractual obligations in a timely manner; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials; or • unfavorable FDA inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical investigation. Our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the seasonality of the disease, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, competing trials with other product candidates and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. In addition, subjects may drop out of clinical trials and thereby impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. Delays in patient enrollment and the related increase in costs also could cause us to decide to discontinue a clinical trial prior to completion. For example, in March 2008, we discontinued our Phase IV clinical trial for ZYFLO CR designed to generate data in the current patient treatment setting because patient enrollment was significantly slower than we had anticipated. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contract research organizations, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and academic institutions to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of the clinical trials for the product candidates we advance into clinical testing. Accordingly, we have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own, which could have an adverse impact on the conduct, timing and completion of our clinical trials and our ability to adhere to FDA regulations (commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices) for conducting, recording and reporting the results of our clinical trials. Although we have not previously experienced most of the foregoing risks with respect to our clinical trials, as a result of these risks, we or third parties upon whom we rely may not successfully begin or complete our clinical trials in the time periods forecasted, if at all. If the results of our planned clinical trials for our product candidates are not available when we expect or if we encounter any delays in the analysis of data from our clinical trials, we may be unable to submit results for regulatory approval or clearance or to conduct additional clinical trials on the schedule that we anticipate. If clinical trials are delayed, the commercial viability of any of our current or future product candidates that require clinical trials may be reduced. If we incur costs and delays in our programs, or if we do not successfully develop and commercialize our products, our future operating and financial results will be materially affected. If we are unable to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved and the nature of the disease or condition to be treated. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period, and changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations or medical and technical developments during the review process, may delay the approval or cause the rejection of an application. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may require additional clinical or other data as a condition of reviewing or approving an application. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. 37 Table of Contents If our clinical trials and other studies do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans, we may experience delays, incur additional costs and ultimately be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Depending upon the nature of the product candidate, obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates may require us and our collaborators to fund and conduct clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, uncertain as to outcome and, depending upon the design of the trial, takes several years or more to complete. Clinical data is often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their products performed satisfactorily in clinical trials were nonetheless unable to obtain FDA approval for their product candidates. Similarly, even if clinical trials of a product candidate are successful in one indication, clinical trials of that product candidate for other indications may be unsuccessful. One or more of our planned clinical trials could fail at any stage of testing. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, negative or inconclusive, or if there are safety concerns, we may be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for product candidates, not be able to obtain marketing approval, obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended or have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval. Delays in testing or obtaining approvals could cause our product development costs to increase, shorten the patent protection period during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates, allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or product candidates. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. There have been, there are and we expect there will continue to be federal and state legislative and administrative proposals that could limit the amount that government health care programs will pay to reimburse the cost of pharmaceutical products. Furthermore, private payers often implement reimbursement policies that are similar to those of government payers. For a discussion of the more important pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement issues applicable to us, please see the “Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement” section of “Item 1. Business” and “Risks Related to Financial Results” below. For example, in June 2011, we were informed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that our two timed release dosage forms of HYOMAX would no longer be eligible for inclusion in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program. Since we have ceased manufacturing and distribution of these products, we did not exercise our right to contest this determination. We are unable to predict whether this action will affect sales of HYOMAX that remain in the distribution channel. Further legislative or administrative acts that reduce or discontinue reimbursement for our products could adversely impact our business. Any reduction or discontinuance in reimbursement for our products could materially harm our results of operations. In addition, we believe that the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact our product sales. Furthermore, when a new product is approved, governmental and private coverage for that product, and the amount for which that product will be reimbursed, are uncertain. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our product candidates, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. We cannot be certain that our currently marketed products will continue to be, or any of our product candidates still in development will be, included in the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit. Even if our products are included, the private health plans that administer the Medicare drug benefit can limit the number of prescription drugs that are covered on their formularies in each therapeutic category and class. In addition, private managed care plans and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. Because many of these same private health plans administer the Medicare drug benefit, they have the ability to influence prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population. In addition, certain states have proposed or adopted 38 Table of Contents various programs under their Medicaid programs to control drug prices, including price constraints, restrictions on access to certain products and bulk purchasing of drugs. If we succeed in bringing additional products to the market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our product candidates on a competitive basis to a sufficient patient population. Because our product candidates are in the development stage, we do not know whether payers will cover the products and the level of reimbursement, if any, we will receive for these product candidates if they are successfully developed, and we are unable at this time to determine the cost-effectiveness of these product candidates. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products and product candidates. Moreover, Health Care Reform includes funding for comparative effectiveness research and the establishment of committees, such as the Independent Payment Advisory Board, to analyze different payment systems (including bundled payments) and recommend payment reform and other cost-containment measures, which all could reduce reimbursement for our products. If the reimbursement we receive for any of our product candidates is inadequate in light of its development and other costs, our ability to realize profits from the affected product candidate would be limited. If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. Some of our historical pharmaceutical products have been marketed without approved NDAs or ANDAs. Even though the FDCA requires pre-marketing approval of all new drugs, as a matter of history and regulatory policy, the FDA has exercised its discretion to permit older legacy, unapproved drugs to remain on the market temporarily by employing a risk-based enforcement policy. Although the FDA considers all such drugs to require its approval, the FDA’s enforcement policy prioritizes unapproved products that pose potential safety risks, lack evidence of effectiveness, prevent patients from seeking effective therapies or are marketed fraudulently. In addition, the FDA is more likely to bring an enforcement action with respect to an unapproved drug if it finds that the marketer and its manufacturers are also allegedly in non-compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs, requirements. In 2010, we discontinued manufacturing and distribution of all of our marketed unapproved products, including our ALLERX Dose Pack products and our HYOMAX line of products. Our decision did not limit the FDA’s enforcement authority. In March 2011, the FDA announced that it intended to initiate enforcement action against marketed unapproved prescription cough, cold and allergy products manufactured on or after June 1, 2011 or shipped on or after August 30, 2011. All of our marketed unapproved products had already been manufactured and shipped prior to December 31, 2010, and this action did not require the recall or withdrawal of any products. However, in connection with the March 2011 FDA Announcement, certain wholesalers indicated that they interpreted the Announcement to cover distribution of ALLERX Dose Pack products by wholesalers and that they intended to return product. During 2011, in connection with the anticipated returns, we reclassified $26.6 million of deferred revenue and related accrued expenses to accrued product returns. During 2011, actual returns of ALLERX Dose Pack products were $30.1 million, which exceeded our initial estimates. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our ALLERX Dose Pack products and our HYOMAX line of products generated in the aggregate $25.4 million and $37.4 million of net product sales, respectively. We may not be able to replace these revenues with revenues from our existing products. If we are not able to replace these product revenues, our discontinuance of these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 39 Table of Contents We will spend considerable time and money complying with federal and state laws and regulations, and, if we are found not to be in compliance with such laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties. Health care providers play a primary role in the recommendation and prescribing of our products. Our arrangements with health care providers, third-party payers and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other health care laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we will market, sell and distribute our products. For a discussion of the more important laws and regulations applicable to us, please see the “Regulatory Matters,” “Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement” and “Fraud and Abuse Regulation” sections of “Item 1. Business” above. We participate in the MDRP established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended, effective in 1993. Under the MDRP, we pay a rebate for each unit of our product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law. We are also required to pay certain statutorily defined rebates on Medicaid purchases for reimbursement on prescription drugs under state Medicaid plans. There have been enhanced political attention, governmental scrutiny and litigation at the federal and state levels regarding the prices paid or reimbursed for pharmaceutical products under Medicaid and other government programs. Although we estimate that less than 3% of our sales qualify for Medicaid rebates, any investigation of our rebate practices could be costly, could divert the attention of our management away from operations and could damage our reputation. Health Care Reform includes a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government’s ability to pursue federal anti-kickback and federal false claims act cases against health care entities, such as increased funding for health care fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers and amendments to the federal false claims act to make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue alleged violations. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under the federal fraud and abuse laws for allegedly providing consulting fees, grants, free travel and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company’s products, allegedly misrepresenting the pricing data which the federal government uses to set reimbursement rates and calculate Medicaid rebates under the MDRP and allegedly causing false claims to be submitted because of the company’s marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. This new growth in litigation and enforcement action has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claims action, which can be expensive, time consuming and distracting, and can potentially impact its financial performance. Efforts to help ensure that our business arrangements comply with the extensive federal and state health care laws and regulations to which we are subject are costly. It is possible that governmental authorities may conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future health care laws or regulations. If our past or present operations, including activities conducted by our sales teams or agents, are found to be in violation of any of these laws or regulations, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, a corporate integrity agreement (which would require ongoing compliance and reporting obligations to the federal government) and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, they may also be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusion from federal health care programs. Many aspects of the health care laws and regulations to which we are subject have not been definitively interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of subjective interpretations, which increases the risk of potential violations. In addition, these laws and their interpretations are subject to change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against the action, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation, business operations and financial results. 40 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and Licenses If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property relating to our technology and products, the value of our technology and products will be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain protection for the intellectual property covering or incorporated into our technology and products, whether such technology is owned by us or licensed to us by third parties. Patent protection in the pharmaceutical field is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions. We and our licensors may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our respective technology or products. Even if issued, patents issued to us or our licensors may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the longevity of the patent protection we may have for our products. Additionally, changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Our owned or licensed patents also may not afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in our or our licensors’ issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. If a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. These proceedings are costly and time-consuming, and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent protection. In addition, U.S. patents generally expire, regardless of the date of issue, 20 years from the earliest claimed non-provisional filing date. Because the timing for submission of our applications to the FDA for regulatory approval of our product candidates is uncertain and, once submitted, the FDA regulatory process and timing for regulatory approval with respect to our product candidates is unpredictable, our estimates regarding the commercialization dates of our product candidates are subject to change. Accordingly, the length of time, if any, our product candidates, once commercialized, will remain subject to patent protection is uncertain. Our collaborators and licensors may have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights and, although we may have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if these third parties do not, our ability to maintain and defend our intellectual property rights may be compromised by the acts or omissions of these third parties. For example, under our license arrangement with LGLS for FACTIVE, LGLS generally is responsible for prosecuting and maintaining patent rights, although we have the right to support the continued prosecution or maintenance of the patent rights if LGLS fails to do so. In addition, each of LGLS and us has the right to pursue claims against third parties for infringement of the patent rights. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions or to bring such actions to a successful conclusion. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial cost and divert the time and attention of our management and scientific personnel in pursuit of these proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. None of our current products or current product candidates except for FACTIVE and CRTX 080 have, or will have, composition of matter patent protection. Some of our currently marketed products do not have patent protection and in most cases such products face generic competition. In addition, although we exclusively license United States patents and patent applications with claims directed to the pharmaceutical formulations of our product candidates, methods of use of our product candidates to treat particular conditions, delivery systems for our product candidates, delivery profiles of our product candidates and methods for producing our product candidates, patent protection is not available for composition of matter claims directed to the APIs of any of our products or product candidates except for FACTIVE and CRTX 080. The composition of matter United States patent for gemifloxacin mesylate that is used 41 Table of Contents in FACTIVE will expire in April 2017. The composition of matter United States patents for lixivaptan that are used in CRTX 080 will expire in July 2013. When the composition of matter patents for the API in FACTIVE and CRTX 080 expire, competitors will be able to offer and sell products with the same API so long as these competitors do not infringe any other patents that we or third parties hold, including formulation and method of use patents. However, method of use patents, in particular, are more difficult to enforce than composition of matter patents because of the risk of off-label sale or use of the subject compounds. Physicians are permitted to prescribe an approved product for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling. Although off-label prescriptions may infringe our method of use patents, the practice is common across medical specialties and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Off-label sales would limit our ability to generate revenue from the sale of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. In addition, if a third party were able to design around our formulation and process patents and create a different formulation using a different production process not covered by our patents or patent applications, we would likely be unable to prevent that third party from manufacturing and marketing its product. Our patents may be challenged by ANDA applicants. If a drug is claimed to be covered by an unexpired patent that the NDA holder has listed with the FDA, an ANDA applicant must certify in a so-called paragraph IV certification that the patent is invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the product that is the subject of the ANDA. If the holder of the NDA sues the ANDA applicant within 45 days of being notified of the paragraph IV certification, the FDA will not approve the ANDA until the earlier of a court decision favorable to the ANDA applicant or the expiration of 30 months. For example, on May 30, 2008, Orchid Healthcare, a Division of Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd., or Orchid, filed an ANDA seeking approval for a generic version of FACTIVE. In the application, Orchid certified that certain of the FDA-listed patents covering FACTIVE are invalid and/or will not be infringed by Orchid’s manufacture, importation, use or sale of the product for which Orchid submitted its ANDA. The certification did not include a certification with respect to U.S. Patent No. 5,633,262, which is listed in the Orange Book as covering FACTIVE and expires in June 2015. We are evaluating whether to commence litigation in response to Orchid’s Paragraph IV certification. While Orchid received tentative approval by the FDA for its ANDA on July 2, 2010, because its paragraph IV certification did not extend to all the patents protecting FACTIVE, it will not be permitted to launch its generic version of FACTIVE until expiry of U.S. Patent No. 5,633,262 in June 2015. Jagotec, the licensed manufacturer and supplier of ZYFLO CR cores, determined a patent that it owned was applicable to ZYFLO CR, and we subsequently listed this patent in the Orange Book in December 2011. Any ANDAs already on file with the FDA at the time of December 2011 patent addition may be approved without having to certify to the new Jagotec patent. Although we would not have the benefit of the 30-month stay associated with such certifications, we would nonetheless be able to assert this patent by filing suit and seeking an injunction. If we initiate legal proceedings to seek to protect our ZYFLO CR brand, the costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful. Trademark protection of our products may not provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage. We use trademarks on most of our currently marketed products and believe that having distinctive marks is an important factor in marketing those products. Distinctive marks may also be important for any additional products that we successfully develop and commercially market. However, we generally do not expect our marks to provide a meaningful competitive advantage over other branded or generic products. We believe that efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payers are, and are likely to continue to be, more important factors in the commercial success of our products and, if approved, our product candidates. For example, physicians and patients may not readily associate our trademark with the applicable product or API. In addition, prescriptions written for a branded product are typically filled with the generic version at the pharmacy if an approved generic 42 Table of Contents is available, resulting in a significant loss in sales of the branded product, including for indications for which the generic version has not been approved for marketing by the FDA. Competitors also may use marks or names that are similar to our trademarks or seek to cancel our similar trademarks based on the competitor’s prior use. If we initiate legal proceedings to seek to protect our trademarks, the costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We have acquired intellectual property rights relating to most of our products and product candidates under license agreements with third parties and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. These licenses provide us with rights to intellectual property that is necessary for our business. Our existing licenses impose, and we expect that future licenses will impose, various obligations related to development and commercialization activities, milestone and royalty payments, sublicensing, patent protection and maintenance, insurance and other similar obligations common in these types of agreements. If we fail to comply with our obligations under these agreements, the licensors may have the right to terminate the license in its entirety, terminate the exclusive nature of the license or bring a claim against us for damages. Any such termination or claim could prevent or impede our ability to develop or market any product candidate or product, respectively, that is covered by the licensed patents. Even if we contest any such termination or claim and are ultimately successful, we could suffer adverse consequences to our operations and business interests. For a description of the licenses covering our more important products, please see “Item 1. Business — License and Collaboration Agreements.” If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We seek to protect our unpatented proprietary information in part by confidentiality agreements with our current and potential collaborators, employees, consultants, strategic partners, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or may be independently developed by competitors. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, our competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. For example, while CUROSURF does not enjoy patent protection, CUROSURF requires a unique and intricate manufacturing process for production. If a competitor obtains the know-how needed to develop its own version of CUROSURF and successfully gains FDA approval for such, our business could be adversely impacted. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, our business will be adversely affected. Our development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may subsequently issue and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents or patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if such claims are successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. 43 Table of Contents As a result of patent infringement or other similar claims or to avoid potential claims, we or our potential future collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from a third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. There have been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the USPTO, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Many of our employees were previously employed at other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including competitors or potential competitors. We try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us. However, we may be subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee’s former employer. We may be required to engage in litigation to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in such litigation, the litigation could result in substantial costs to us and/or be distracting to our management. If we fail to defend or are unsuccessful in defending against any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Risks Relating to Financial Results Legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The implementation of Health Care Reform is expected to result in a transformation of the delivery of and payment for health care services in the United States. The combination of these measures will continue to expand health insurance coverage to an estimated 32 million Americans. In addition, there are significant health insurance reforms that will improve patients’ ability to obtain and maintain health insurance. Such measures include the elimination of lifetime caps, no rescission of policies and no denial of coverage due to preexisting conditions. The expansion of health care insurance and these additional market reforms should result in greater access to our products; however, the substantial increase in the number of Americans with health insurance will not occur until 2014. Moreover, a number of provisions contained in Health Care Reform may adversely affect reimbursement for our products. Effective January 2, 2010, Health Care Reform retroactively increased the minimum basic Medicaid rebate for brand-name prescription drugs from 15.1% to 23.1% and for generic drugs from 11% to 13%, potentially increased the additional Medicaid rebate calculation for “line extensions” of oral solid dosage forms of innovator products, expanded the entities eligible for 340B pricing and revised the average manufacturer price definition to remove certain classes of trade. In addition, in March 2010, pharmaceutical manufacturers were required to pay states rebates on prescription drugs dispensed to Medicaid MCO enrollees. Beginning on January 1, 2011, Health Care Reform required drug manufacturers to provide a 50% discount on brand-name prescriptions filled in the Medicare Part D “coverage gap,” also known as the donut hole. The legislation mandates the gradual elimination of the coverage gap, beginning in 2011 and finishing in 2020. Moreover, Health Care Reform reduces Part D premium subsidies for higher-income beneficiaries, expands medication therapy management requirements and makes a number of other revisions to Part D program requirements. The elimination of the coverage gap may result in greater access to our products for Part D beneficiaries. 44 Table of Contents Beginning in 2011, Health Care Reform imposed a significant annual fee (which is not tax deductible) payable to the federal government on all companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products, which annual fee will increase through 2019. The total annual fee payable by the industry will be allocated based on a company’s “market share” of all branded prescription drug sales to certain government programs during a certain period. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance are also included, which may require us to modify the manner in which we advertise, promote and distribute product samples to health care practitioners. Furthermore, Health Care Reform created the Independent Payment Advisory Board to recommend and implement proposals to limit Medicare spending, which could impact reimbursement for prescription drugs. We are unable to predict the future course of federal or state health care legislation and regulations, including regulations that will be issued to implement provisions of Health Care Reform or legal and legislative challenges to all or portions of Health Care Reform. The financial impact of Health Care Reform may be affected by certain additional factors over the next few years, including pending implementation guidance, certain proposed reforms, repeals and legal challenges and state legislatures’ reactions stemming from state budget deficits. Health Care Reform and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our net product sales or increase our costs could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development, commercialization or acquisition efforts. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant development expenses in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly if and when we conduct clinical trials for product candidates. In addition, we incur significant commercialization expenses related to our currently marketed products for sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution. We expect these commercialization expenses to increase in future periods if we are successful in obtaining FDA approval to market our product candidates or any newly acquired products. We have used, and expect to continue to use, revenue from sales of our marketed products to fund a significant portion of the development costs of our product candidates and to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure. However, we may need substantial additional funding for these purposes and may be unable to raise capital when needed or on acceptable terms, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development programs or commercialization efforts. As of December 31, 2011, we had $74.0 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand. Based on our current operating plans, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and revenue from product sales are sufficient to continue to fund our existing level of operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the level of product sales and product returns of our currently marketed products and any additional products that we may market in the future; • the scope, progress, results and costs of development activities for our current product candidates; • the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of our product candidates; • the number of, and development requirements for, additional product candidates that we pursue; • the costs of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; • the costs and timing of establishing manufacturing and supply arrangements for clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and products; • the extent to which we acquire or invest in products, businesses and technologies; • the extent to which we choose to establish collaboration, co-promotion, distribution or other similar arrangements for our marketed products and product candidates; and • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending claims related to intellectual property owned by or licensed to us. 45 Table of Contents The terms of any additional capital funding that we require may not be favorable to us or our stockholders. To the extent that our capital resources are insufficient to meet our future capital requirements, we will need to finance our cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements or other financing alternatives. Additional equity or debt financing, or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, as we did in our transaction with Chiesi, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing requires that payments of principal and interest be made at specified times and such payments may represent a significant portion of or our revenues. Additionally such financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any agreements governing debt or equity financing may also contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences, that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may be required to relinquish valuable rights to our future revenue streams or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. We may incur losses in the future. We experienced a net loss in 2011, and we may be unable to return to profitability, even if we are able to commercialize additional products. Prior to 2011, we had been profitable every year since 2007. To date, we have financed our operations primarily with revenue from product sales and debt and equity financings. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to: • establishing a sales and marketing infrastructure; • acquiring marketed products, product candidates and related technologies; • commercializing marketed products; and • developing product candidates, including conducting clinical trials. We expect to continue to incur significant development and commercialization expenses as we: • advance the development of our product candidates; and • seek regulatory approvals for product candidates that successfully complete clinical testing. We also expect to incur additional expenses to add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel. For us to return to profitability, we believe that we must succeed in commercializing additional drugs with significant market potential. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including: • successfully completing any necessary clinical trials of our product candidates; • obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for these product candidates; • manufacturing, marketing and selling those products for which we may obtain regulatory approval; and • obtaining, through product acquisitions and in-licenses, rights to products and product candidates. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenue that is sufficient to return to and then sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Any failure to return to and then sustain and increase profitability could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings and continue operations. If the estimates that we make, or the assumptions upon which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, the actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and 46 Table of Contents judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, stockholders’ equity, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. For example, at the same time we recognize revenues for product sales, we also record an adjustment, or decrease, to revenue for estimated chargebacks, rebates, discounts, vouchers and returns, which management determines on a product-by-product basis as its best estimate at the time of sale based on each product’s historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves. Actual sales allowances may exceed our estimates for a variety of reasons, including unanticipated competition, regulatory actions or changes in one or more of our contractual relationships. Our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, may prove to be incorrect. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate from period to period. We anticipate that there may be fluctuations in our future operating results. Potential causes of future fluctuations in our operating results may include: • acquisition activity; • new product launches, which could increase revenues but also increase sales and marketing expenses; • charges for inventory expiration or product quality issues; • changes in the amount and timing of sales of our products due to changes in product pricing, changes in the prevalence of disease conditions or generic competition from period to period or other factors; • the timing of operating expenses, including selling and marketing expenses and the costs of maintaining a direct sales force; • changes in research and development expenses resulting from the acquisition of product candidates or from general and industry-specific economic conditions; • changes in the competitive, regulatory or reimbursement environment, including the amounts of rebates, discounts, holdbacks, chargebacks and returns, which could decrease revenues or increase sales and marketing, product development or compliance costs; • unexpected product liability or intellectual property claims and lawsuits; • significant payments, such as milestones, required under collaboration, licensing and development agreements before the related product candidate has received FDA approval; • seasonality of the respiratory ailment season, which historically results in higher sales of our respiratory products during the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year; • marketing exclusivity, if any, which may be obtained on certain new products; • the dependence on a small number of products for a significant portion of net revenues and net income; • price erosion and customer consolidation; • the results of ongoing and planned clinical trials of our product candidates; • the results of regulatory reviews relating to the development or approval of our product candidates; and • production problems occurring at our third-party manufacturers. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, NASDAQ and the 47 Table of Contents Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, have required changes in the corporate governance practices and financial reporting standards for public companies. These laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made many activities more time-consuming and more burdensome. These laws, rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as regulatory and governing bodies provide new guidance, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters. The costs of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations have adversely affected our financial results. Moreover, we run the risk of non-compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our stock. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. We have devoted significant resources to remediate our deficiencies and improve our internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that these efforts have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting, we are continuing to work to improve our internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Risks Relating to Employee Matters and Managing Growth If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, or to retain our executive management team, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our products. Recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel and research partners is critical to our success. Any expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as clinical trials, governmental approvals and contract manufacturing, will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. These demands may require us to hire additional personnel and will require our existing management personnel to develop additional expertise. We face intense competition for personnel. The failure to attract and retain personnel or to develop such expertise could delay or halt the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. If we experience difficulties in hiring and retaining personnel in key positions, we could suffer from delays in product development, loss of customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect operating results. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by third parties and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with third parties that may limit their availability to us. We depend to a great extent on the principal members of our management. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, in particular, Craig Collard, our Chief Executive Officer, might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could cause us to incur additional costs to recruit replacements. Each member of our executive management team may terminate his employment at any time. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance with respect to any of our executives. Furthermore, if we decide to recruit new executive personnel, we will incur additional costs. We may not be able to replace key personnel internally or without additional costs in the future. Our inability to attract and retain the executive talent necessary to manage and grow our company could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Common Stock Our stock price is subject to fluctuation, which may cause an investment in our stock to suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have 48 Table of Contents experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include, but are not limited to the following, as they relate to us and (as applicable) our competitors: • the results of discovery, preclinical studies and clinical trials; • significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. • the entry into, amendment or termination of key agreements, including licensing and collaboration agreements; • the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of product candidates; • the initiation of material developments in or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend intellectual property rights; • failure of any product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect research and development expenditures; • issues in manufacturing products or product candidates; • recall or withdrawal of a product or products; • the loss of key employees; • the acquisition, development or introduction of technologies, product candidates or products; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems; • regulatory actions with respect to products; • our financial results, including period-to-period fluctuations in those results; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; and • future sales of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Chiesi has substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, including a transaction in which our stockholders could sell or exchange their shares for a premium. As a result of our July 28, 2009 strategic transaction with Chiesi, Chiesi acquired a majority of our common stock and assumed substantial control over our company. The governance agreement with Chiesi that we entered into in connection with the Chiesi transaction terminated on July 28, 2011. Since Chiesi continues to own a majority of our common stock and the governance agreement was not renewed or replaced by a similar arrangement, Chiesi has the ability to exercise significant control over our company. Delaware law provides that directors, including those appointed by Chiesi, have fiduciary duties to all stockholders and also provides safeguards in certain situations to ensure that all stockholders are treated fairly. As a majority stockholder, Chiesi may nonetheless be able, without a meeting or prior notice to our other stockholders, to (1) remove our directors with or without cause; (2) approve or disapprove significant corporate actions, such as a sale of our company; (3) cause the removal of our management, including our executive officers; and (4) take or cause to be taken or not take or cause not to be taken other significant corporate actions. 49 Table of Contents As a result of Chiesi’s ownership and control over our company, we consider ourselves to be a “Controlled Company” under NASDAQ rules, which means, among other things, that NASDAQ does not require us to maintain a majority of independent directors or nominating and compensation committees comprised solely of independent directors. We cannot be certain that the interests of Chiesi will be consistent with the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, Chiesi’s majority ownership of and control over our company may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, merger or tender offer, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, Chiesi, either alone or with other existing stockholders (including members of our management), could effectively receive a premium for transferring ownership to third parties that would not inure to the benefit of other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 