ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our businesses face significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below actually occurs, our businesses, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition to those described below, our businesses may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial.Risks Relating to Our Industry Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance industry.The results of companies in the property casualty insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties in demand and pricing, causing cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance industry. The demand for insurance is influenced primarily by general economic conditions, while the supply of insurance is often directly related to available capacity or the perceived profitability of the business. Although the insurance markets currently are beginning to harden, we have faced in recent years increased competition in our business, as a result of new entrants and existing insurers seeking to gain market share, resulting in decreased premium rates and less favorable contract terms and conditions. The adequacy of premium rates is affected mainly by the severity and frequency of claims, which are influenced by many factors, including natural disasters, regulatory measures and court decisions that define and expand the extent of coverage and the effects of economic inflation on 21the amount of compensation due for injuries or losses. In addition, investment rates of return have impacted rate adequacy and the Federal Reserve has indicated its intention to keep interest rates at historic lows through late 2014. These factors can have a significant impact on ultimate profitability because a property casualty insurance policy is priced before its costs are known as premiums usually are determined long before claims are reported. These factors could produce results that would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.We face significant competitive pressures in our businesses, which have reduced premium rates and could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, other regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and diversified financial services companies, some of which have implicit or explicit government support. Competitiveness in our businesses is based on many factors, including premium charges, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, commissions paid to producers, the perceived financial strength of the company, other terms and conditions offered, services provided (including ease of doing business over the internet), speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in the lines to be written. Some of our competitors, particularly in the Reinsurance business, have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. These competitors within the reinsurance segment include Swiss Re, Munich Re, Berkshire Hathaway, Transatlantic Reinsurance, and Partner Re. We expect that perceived financial strength, in particular, will become more important as customers seek high quality reinsurers. Certain of our competitors operate from Bermuda or other tax advantaged or less regulated jurisdictions that may provide them with additional competitive and pricing advantages. Over the past several years, we have faced increased competition in our business, particularly in our Reinsurance and Specialty segments, as increased supply has led to reduced prices and, at times, less favorable terms and conditions. Our Specialty segment has also encountered competition from admitted companies seeking to increase market share. Although policy rates and terms for certain of these lines of business generally stabilized or showed modest improvements starting in 2011, we expect to continue to face strong competition in these and our other lines of business and as a result could experience renewed pressure on pricing and policy terms and conditions. This intense competition could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and retain existing business or write new products at adequate rates or on terms and conditions acceptable to us. If we are unable to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates or on terms and conditions acceptable to us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, which may require us to establish additional reserves. Our gross reserves for losses and loss expenses were approximately $10 billion as of December 31, 2012. Our loss reserves reflect our best estimates of the cost of settling claims and related expenses with respect to insured events that have occurred. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what management expects the ultimate settlement and claims administration will cost for claims that have occurred, whether known or unknown. The major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns are subject to unanticipated fluctuation. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on management's assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, inflation, judicial theories of liability, reinsurance coverage, legislative changes and other factors, including the actions of third parties, which are beyond our control. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, where long periods of time elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made and settlement is reached. In periods with increased economic volatility, it becomes more difficult to accurately predict claim costs. It is especially difficult to estimate the impact of inflation on loss reserves given the current economic environment and related government actions. Both inflation overall and medical cost inflation, which has historically been greater than inflation overall, 22can have an adverse impact. Reserve estimates are continually refined in an ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, we cannot assure that our current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events. Should we need to increase our reserves, our pre-tax income for the reporting period would decrease by a corresponding amount. We discount our reserves for excess and assumed workers' compensation business because of the long period of time over which losses are paid. Discounting is intended to appropriately match losses and loss expenses to income earned on investment securities supporting liabilities. The expected loss and loss expense payout pattern subject to discounting is derived from our loss payout experience. Changes in the loss and loss expense payout pattern are recorded in the period they are determined. If the actual loss payout pattern is shorter than anticipated, the discount will be reduced and pre-tax income will decrease by a corresponding amount.The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and economic, legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: • judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; • plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; • medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims; • claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies, including cyber security related risks; and • claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known until many years after the policies are issued. In addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are difficult to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations.As a property casualty insurer, we face losses from natural and man-made catastrophes. Property casualty insurers are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophe losses have had a significant impact on our results. For example, weather-related losses were $80 million in 2012, $153 million in 2011, $81 million in 2010, $63 million in 2009, and $114 million in 2008. Similarly, man-made catastrophes can also have a material impact on our financial results. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, tsunamis, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather and fires, as well as terrorist and other man-made activities, including drilling, mining and other industrial accidents or terrorist activities. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable but have increased in recent years. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Some catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and other disasters may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated areas. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property and casualty lines, and most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms. 23Seasonal weather variations or the impact of climate change may affect the severity and frequency of our losses. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for a catastrophe until it has occurred. It is therefore possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could produce significant losses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition or profitability. There is an emerging scientific view that the earth is getting warmer. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns, may affect the frequency and severity of storms and other weather events as well as the affordability, availability and underwriting results of commercial property insurance, and, if frequency and severity patterns increase, could negatively affect our financial results.Conditions in the financial markets and the global economy have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if such conditions continue. The significant volatility and uncertainty experienced in financial markets around the world during the past several years and the effect of the economic downturn have continued. Although the U.S. and various foreign governments have taken various actions to try to stabilize the financial markets, the ultimate effectiveness of such actions remains unclear. Therefore, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and the resulting negative economic impact may continue for some time. For example, financial markets have been affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal policy as well as the related concern regarding the need to reduce the federal deficit. These issues, together with the slowing of the global economy generally, could send the U.S. into a new recession, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and disrupt economic activity in the U.S. and elsewhere. Similarly, recent concerns about the solvency of certain European Union member states, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by them, has created market volatility that continues to affect the performance of various asset classes, and likely will continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt related concerns. While we monitor conditions in the financial markets, we cannot predict future conditions or their impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Depending on conditions in the financial markets, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio in future periods, and financial market volatility and uncertainty and an economic downturn could have a significant negative impact on third parties that we do business with, including insureds and reinsurers. We, as a primary insurer, may have significant exposure for terrorist acts. To the extent an act of terrorism, whether a domestic or foreign act, is certified by the Secretary of Treasury, we may be covered under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, as amended (“TRIA”), for up to 85% of our losses for certain property/casualty lines of insurance. However, any such coverage would be subject to a mandatory deductible based on 20% of earned premium for the prior year for the covered lines of commercial property and casualty insurance. Based on our 2012 earned premiums, our deductible under TRIA during 2013 is approximately $618 million. TRIA is currently in effect through December 31, 2014. We cannot be certain that TRIA will be extended past such expiration date. In addition, the coverage provided under TRIA does not apply to reinsurance that we write. Our earnings could be more volatile because of our significant level of retentions. As compared to a number of our competitors, we maintain significant retention levels in premiums written. We purchase less reinsurance, the process by which we transfer, or cede, part of the risk we have assumed to a reinsurance company, thereby retaining more risk. As a result, our earnings could be more volatile and increased severities are more likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which increases our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This system of regulation, generally administered in the United States by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things:24•standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements;•restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments;•requirements pertaining to certain methods of accounting;•rate and form regulation pertaining to certain of our insurance businesses; •potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; and•involvement in the payment or adjudication of catastrophe or other claims beyond the terms of the policies.State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Our International business is also generally subject to a similar regulatory scheme in each of the jurisdictions where we conduct operations. Federal financial services modernization legislation and legislative and regulatory initiatives taken or which may be taken in response to the current conditions in the financial markets and the recent economic downturn may lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years.In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which effected sweeping changes to financial services regulation in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act established the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), which is authorized to recommend that certain systemically significant non-bank financial companies, including insurance companies, be regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) and authorized the federal preemption of certain state insurance laws. FSOC and the FIO are authorized to study, monitor and report to Congress on the U.S. insurance industry and the significance of global reinsurance to the U.S. insurance market. The potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the U.S. insurance business is not clear. Our business could be affected by changes, whether as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act or otherwise, to the U.S. system of insurance regulation or our designation or the designation of insurers or reinsurers with which we do business as systemically significant non-bank financial companies.As a result of its direct and indirect majority ownership interest in Peyton Street Independent Financial Services Corporation, a thrift holding company, and indirect majority ownership stake in InsurBanc, a federal savings bank, W. R. Berkley Corporation is a "savings and loan holding company" and, under the Dodd-Frank Act, is subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. InsurBanc has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its assets and deposit liabilities, following which both Peyton Street and InsurBanc would proceed to liquidate and each of Peyton Street and W. R. Berkley Corporation would deregister as a savings and loan holding company. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2013, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. As a savings and loan holding company, W. R. Berkley Corporation may be subject to certain prior notification requirements, restrictions on dividends, stock repurchases and distributions, transactions with affiliates and compensation plans and additional requirements related to its shareholders, management reporting and capital adequacy if the de-banking were not to occur as anticipated or until it takes such other actions to terminate W. R. Berkley Corporation's status as a savings and loan holding company.Although U.S. state regulation is the primary form of regulation of insurance and reinsurance, in addition to the changes brought about by the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress has considered over the past years various proposals relating to the creation of an optional federal charter, repeal of the insurance company antitrust exemption from the McCarran Ferguson Act, and tax law changes. We may be subject to potentially increased federal oversight as a financial institution. With respect to international measures, Solvency II, the EU directive concerning the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers and reinsurers which was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2009, may affect our insurance businesses. Implementation of Solvency II in EU member states, which already applies to our Lloyd's Syndicate, and is currently scheduled to occur on January 1, 2014, may require us to utilize a significant amount of resources to ensure compliance. In addition, Solvency II may have the effect of increasing the 25capital requirements of our EU domiciled insurers. Additionally, our capital requirements may be adversely affected if the EU commission finds that the insurance regimes of our third-country domiciled companies are not "equivalent" to the requirements of Solvency II.We may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority's interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, some regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize us. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry, whether federal, state or foreign, or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, may further restrict the conduct of our business. Risks Relating to Our Business Our international operations expose us to investment, political and economic risks, including foreign currency and credit risk.Our expanding international operations in the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, South America, Australia, the Asia-Pacific region, Scandinavia and Canada expose us to increased investment, political and economic risks, including foreign currency and credit risk. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investments in non-U.S.-denominated securities are subject to fluctuations in non-U.S. securities and currency markets, and those markets can be volatile. Non-U.S. currency fluctuations also affect the value of any dividends paid by our non-U.S. subsidiaries to their parent companies in the U.S.We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel and qualified employees.We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including our Chairman and CEO, President and COO, senior executive officers, presidents of our operating units, experienced underwriters and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. If the quality of our underwriting team and other personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialized markets in which we operate, and be unable to expand our operations into new markets.We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all, and, as a result, we could experience losses. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk that we have assumed, known as ceding, to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer contractually liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it does not relieve us, the reinsured, of our liability to our policyholders. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay such recoverables on a timely basis. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, and if our reinsurers fail to pay us, our financial results would be adversely affected. Underwriting results and investment returns of some of our reinsurers may affect their future ability to pay claims. As of December 31, 2012, the amount due from our reinsurers was approximately $1,450 million, including amounts due from state funds and industry pools where it was intended that we would bear no risk. Certain of these amounts due from reinsurers are secured by letters of credit or by funds held in trust on our behalf.We are subject to credit risk relating to our policyholders, independent agents and brokers. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our reinsurance recoverables and investment portfolio, we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. For example our policyholders, independent agents or brokers may not pay a part of or the full amount of premiums owed to us or our brokers or other third party claim administrators may not deliver amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts for which we have provided funds.As credit risk is generally a function of the economy, we face a greater credit risk in an economic downturn. While we attempt to manage credit risks through underwriting guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight 26mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. For example, to reduce such credit risk, we require certain third parties to post collateral for some or all of their obligations to us. In cases where we receive pledged securities and the applicable counterparty is unable to honor its obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed as a result of bankruptcy. In cases where we receive letters of credit from banks as collateral and one of our counterparties is unable to honor its obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. We are rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's, and Moody's, and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Certain of our insurance company subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors. Our ratings are subject to periodic review, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current or any future ratings.If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's or Moody's, our competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A ratings downgrade could also adversely limit our access to capital markets, which may increase the cost of debt. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as policyholders move to other companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings.If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments.As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain amounts of risk underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries, especially catastrophe risks and those risks with relatively high policy limits. We also purchase reinsurance on risks underwritten by others which we reinsure. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we seek to purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. Our reinsurance contracts are generally subject to annual renewal, and we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance contracts or to obtain other reinsurance contracts in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. In addition, we may be unable to obtain reinsurance on terms acceptable to us relating to certain lines of business that we intend to begin writing. If we are unable to renew our expiring contracts or to obtain new reinsurance contracts, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, especially catastrophe exposed risks.Depending on conditions in the financial markets and the general economy, we may be unable to raise debt or equity capital if needed.If conditions in the financial markets and the general economy are unfavorable, which may result from disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, we may be unable to access debt or equity capital on acceptable terms if needed, which could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in our insurance company subsidiaries and/or to take advantage of opportunities to expand our business, such as possible acquisitions and the creation of new ventures, and inhibit our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness if we desire to do so, on terms acceptable to us.We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or new insurance ventures and even if we do, we may not successfully integrate any such acquired companies or successfully invest in such ventures.As part of our present strategy, we continue to evaluate possible acquisition transactions and the start-up of complementary businesses on an ongoing basis, and at any given time we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions and new ventures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or insurance ventures, that such transactions will be financed and completed on acceptable terms or that our future acquisitions or start-up ventures will be successful. The process of integrating any companies we do acquire or investing in new ventures may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.If we experience difficulties with our information technology, telecommunications or other computer systems, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively or severely impacted. 27Our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform necessary business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. A shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other computer systems could significantly impair our employees' ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, or the infection of our systems by a malicious computer virus, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If our business continuity plans or system security does not sufficiently address such a business interruption, system failure or service denial, our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions could be significantly impaired and our business could be harmed.Failure to maintain the security of our networks and confidential data may expose us to liability.Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. In addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security. While we attempt to develop secure data transmission capabilities with these third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place such secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the sensitive information being transferred. Our failure to protect sensitive personal and our proprietary information, whether owing to breaches of our own systems or those of our vendors, could result in significant monetary and reputational damages. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business could be materially and adversely affected. We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards, including those related to privacy, anti-corruption, anti-bribery and global finance and insurance matters. Our continued expansion into new international markets has brought about additional requirements. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation.Risks Relating to Our Investments A significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed maturity securities and is subject to market fluctuations. Our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed maturity securities. As of December 31, 2012, our investment in fixed maturity securities was approximately $11.9 billion, or 76% of our total investment portfolio. As of that date, our portfolio of fixed maturity securities consisted of the following types of securities: U.S. Government securities (7.5%); state and municipal securities (40.5%); corporate securities (28.1%); mortgage-backed securities (14.6%) and foreign government and corporate bonds (9.3%). The fair value of these assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair value of fixed maturity securities generally decreases as interest rates rise. If significant inflation were to occur, the fair value of our fixed maturity securities would be negatively impacted. Conversely, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed maturity securities will be lower. Some fixed maturity securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, also carry prepayment risk as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Additionally, given the historically low interest rate 28environment, we may not be able to successfully reinvest the proceeds from maturing securities at yields commensurate with our target performance goals. The value of investments in fixed maturity securities is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the credit worthiness of the issuer, default by the issuer (including states and municipalities) in the performance of its obligations in respect of the securities and/or increases in market interest rates. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession. During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, particularly if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may require additional subjectivity and management judgment. Although the historical rates of default on state and municipal securities have been relatively low, our state and municipal fixed maturity securities could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The economic downturn has resulted in many states and municipalities operating under deficits or projected deficits, the severity and duration of which could have an adverse impact on both the valuation of our state and municipal fixed maturity securities and the issuer's ability to perform its obligations thereunder. Additionally, our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general decrease in commercial and economic activity for an industry sector in which we invest, as well as risks inherent in particular securities. Although we attempt to manage these risks through the use of investment guidelines and other oversight mechanisms and by diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing preservation of principal, our efforts may not be successful. Impairments, defaults and/or rate increases could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. Investment returns are currently, and will likely continue to remain, under pressure due to the significant volatility experienced in the financial markets, economic uncertainty, more generally, and the shape of the yield curve. As a result, our exposure to the risks described above could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.We invest some of our assets in equity securities, merger arbitrage securities, investment funds, private equity and real estate related assets, which may decline in value. We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in equity securities, merger arbitrage securities, investment funds, private equity and real estate related assets and have recently increased our investments in these asset classes as a result of the current historically low interest rate environment. At December 31, 2012, our investment in these assets was approximately $2.8 billion, or 18%, of our investment portfolio. We reported provisions for other than temporary impairments in the value of these assets of approximately $5 million in 2012, $400,000 in 2011 and $9 million in 2010, and losses from investment funds of $6 million in 2010. Merger and arbitrage trading securities were $718 million, or 5%, of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2012. Merger arbitrage involves investing in the securities of publicly held companies that are the targets in announced tender offers and mergers. Merger arbitrage differs from other types of investments in its focus on transactions and events believed likely to bring about a change in value over a relatively short time period, usually four months or less. Our merger arbitrage positions are exposed to the risk associated with the completion of announced deals, which are subject to regulatory as well as political and other risks. Investments in real estate investment funds and limited partnerships and loans receivable were $1,351 million, or 9%, of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2012. The values of our real estate related investments are subject to fluctuations based on changes in the economy and interest rates in general and real estate valuations in particular. These investments have been subject to significant volatility as a result of the current conditions in the financial markets. In addition, our investments in real estate related assets and other alternative investments are less liquid than our other investments. Risks Relating to Purchasing Our Securities We are an insurance holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends in needed amounts. As an insurance holding company, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our insurance company subsidiaries. We have to rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries to meet our obligations for 29paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to stockholders and repurchasing our shares and paying corporate expenses. The payment of dividends by our insurance company subsidiaries is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries, as well as regulatory restrictions. During 2013, the maximum amount of dividends that can be paid without regulatory approval is approximately $466 million. As a result, in the future we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet our obligations, pay dividends or repurchase shares.Laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business could delay, deter or prevent an attempt to acquire control of us that stockholders might consider to be desirable, and may restrict a stockholder's ability to purchase our common stock. Generally, United States insurance holding company laws require that, before a person can acquire control of an insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance regulatory authorities in the state in which that insurance company is domiciled. Pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, “control” over an insurer is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of that insurer (5% for Alabama domiciled insurers, such as us due to our ownership of American Mining Insurance). Indirect ownership includes ownership of the shares of our common stock. Thus, the insurance regulatory authorities of the states in which our insurance operating units are domiciled are likely to apply these restrictions on acquisition of control to any proposed acquisition of our common stock. Some states require a person seeking to acquire control of an insurer licensed but not domiciled in that state to make a filing prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the target insurer and its affiliates, on the other hand, have specified market shares in the same lines of insurance in that state. Additionally, many foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business impose similar restrictions and requirements.While these provisions may not require acquisition approval, they can lead to the imposition of conditions on an acquisition that could delay or prevent its consummation. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. Certain provisions in our organizational documents may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers and thus may prevent our stockholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover or make it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, as well as state insurance statutes, may hinder, delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions or changes of our control. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our current management without the concurrence of our board of directors. These provisions include:•our classified board of directors and the ability of our board to increase its size and to appoint directors to fill newly created directorships;•the requirement that 80% of our stockholders must approve mergers and other transactions between us and the holder of 5% or more of our shares, unless the transaction was approved by our board of directors prior to such holder's acquisition of 5% of our shares; and•the need for advance notice in order to raise business or make nominations at stockholders' meetings.These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable.30ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThere are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.