ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our businesses face significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below actually occurs, our businesses, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance industry. The results of companies in the property casualty insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. The demand for insurance is influenced primarily by general economic conditions, while the supply of insurance is directly related to available capacity. Over the past several years, we have faced increasing competition in our business, including as a result of an increased flow of capital into the insurance and reinsurance industry, with both new entrants and existing insurers seeking to gain market share. This has resulted in decreased premium rates and less favorable contract terms and conditions. The adequacy of premium rates is affected mainly by the severity and frequency of claims, which are influenced by many factors, including natural disasters, regulatory measures and court decisions that define and expand the extent of coverage and the effects of economic inflation on the amount of compensation due for injuries or losses. In addition, investment rates of return may impact rate adequacy. These factors can have a significant impact on ultimate profitability because a property casualty insurance policy is priced before its costs are known as premiums usually are determined long before claims are reported. These factors could produce results that would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Current conditions in the financial markets and the ongoing economic downturn have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if such conditions continue. The significant volatility and uncertainty experienced in financial markets around the world during the past year and the ongoing economic downturn have continued. Although the U.S. and various foreign governments have taken various actions to try to stabilize the financial markets, it is unclear whether those actions will be effective. Therefore, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and the resulting negative economic impact will likely continue for some time. While we monitor conditions in the financial markets, we cannot predict future conditions or their impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Depending on conditions in the financial markets, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio in future periods, and financial market volatility and uncertainty and an economic downturn could have a significant negative impact on third parties that we do business with, including insureds and reinsurers. Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, which may require us to establish additional reserves. Our gross reserves for losses and loss expenses were approximately $9.0 billion as of December 31, 2008. Our loss reserves reflect our best estimates of the cost of settling claims and related expenses with respect to insured events that have occurred. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what management expects the ultimate settlement and claims administration will cost for claims that have occurred, whether known or unknown. The major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns are subject to unanticipated fluctuation. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on management’s assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, inflation, judicial theories of liability, reinsurance coverage, legislative changes and other factors, including the actions of third parties which are beyond our control. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, where long periods of time elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made and settlement is reached. In periods with increased economic volatility, such as under the current financial market conditions, it becomes more difficult to accurately predict claim costs. It is especially difficult to estimate the impact of inflation on loss reserves given the current economic environment and related government actions. Reserve estimates are continually refined in an ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, we cannot assure that our current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events. Should we need to increase our reserves, our pre-tax income for the period would decrease by a corresponding amount. We decreased our estimates for claims occurring in prior years by $196 million in 2008 and $106 million in 2007, and increased our estimate by $27 million in 2006, $187 million in 2005 and $295 million in 2004. We, along with the property casualty insurance industry in general, have experienced higher than expected losses for certain types of business written from 1998 to 2001. Although our reserves reflect our best estimate of the costs of settling claims, we cannot assure you that our claim estimates will not need to be increased in the future. We discount our reserves for excess and assumed workers’ compensation business because of the long period of time over which losses are paid. Discounting is intended to appropriately match losses and loss expenses to income earned on investment securities supporting liabilities. The expected loss and loss expense payout pattern subject to discounting is derived from our loss payout experience. Changes in the loss and loss expense payout pattern are recorded in the period they are determined. If the actual loss payout pattern is shorter than anticipated, the discount will be reduced and pre-tax income will decrease by a corresponding amount. 23 Table of Contents As a property casualty insurer, we face losses from natural and man-made catastrophes. Property casualty insurers are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophe losses have had a significant impact on our results. In addition, through our participation in certain Lloyd’s syndicates, we have additional exposure to catastrophic losses. For example, weather-related losses were $114 million in 2008, $34 million in 2007, $39 million in 2006, $99 million in 2005 and $60 million in 2004. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather and fires, as well as terrorist activities. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable but have increased in recent years. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Some catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes and earthquakes may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated areas. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property casualty lines, and most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms. Seasonal weather variations may affect the severity and frequency of our losses. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for a catastrophe until it has occurred. It is therefore possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could produce significant losses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face significant and increasing competitive pressures in our businesses, which have reduced premium rates and could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, other regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and diversified financial services companies. Competitiveness in our businesses is based on many factors, including premium charges, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, commissions paid to producers, the perceived financial strength of the company, other terms and conditions offered, services provided, speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in the lines to be written. Some of our competitors, particularly in the reinsurance business, have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. These competitors within the reinsurance segment include Berkshire Hathaway, Swiss Re, Transatlantic Reinsurance, XL and Munich Re. We expect that perceived financial strength, in particular, will become more important as customers seek high quality reinsurers. Certain of our competitors operate from Bermuda or other tax advantaged or less regulated jurisdictions that may provide them with additional competitive and pricing advantages. Over the past several years, we have faced increased competition in our business, particularly in our reinsurance segment, as increased supply has led to reduced prices. Our specialty segment increasingly encounters competition from admitted companies seeking to increase market share. We expect to continue to face strong competition in these and our other lines of business and may continue to experience reduced pricing and weaker terms and conditions. This intense competition could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and retain existing business or write new products at adequate rates. If we are unable to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We, as a primary insurer, may have significant exposure for terrorist acts. To the extent an act of terrorism, whether a domestic or foreign act, is certified by the Secretary of Treasury, we may be covered under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, as amended on December 22, 2005 and further amended on December 26, 2007 (“TRIA”), for up to 85% of 24 Table of Contents our losses for certain property/casualty lines of insurance. However, any such coverage would be subject to a mandatory deductible based on 20% of earned premium for the prior year for the covered lines of commercial property and casualty insurance. Based on our 2008 earned premiums, our deductible under TRIA during 2009 is approximately $574 million. TRIA is in effect through December 31, 2014 unless extended or replaced by a similar program. The coverage provided under TRIA does not apply to reinsurance that we write. Our earnings could be more volatile because of our significant level of retentions. As compared to a number of our competitors, we maintain significant retention levels in premiums written. We purchase less reinsurance, the process by which we transfer, or cede, part of the risk we have assumed to a reinsurance company, thereby retaining more risk. As a result, our earnings could be more volatile and increased severities are more likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which increases our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This system of regulation, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things: • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • requiring certain methods of accounting; • rate and form regulation pertaining to certain of our insurance businesses; and • potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Federal financial services modernization legislation and legislative and regulatory initiatives taken or which may be taken in response to the current conditions in the financial markets and the ongoing economic downturn may lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years. We may be subject to potentially increased federal oversight as a financial institution. Also, foreign governments regulate our international operations. The insurance industry has been the subject of scrutiny with respect to insurance broker and agent compensation arrangements and sales practices. The New York State Attorney General and other state and federal regulators have conducted investigations and other proceedings relating to compensation and bidding arrangements between producers and issuers of insurance products, and alleged unsuitable sales practices by producers on behalf of either the issuer or the purchaser. The practices included, among other things, allegations that contingent commission arrangements may conflict with a broker’s duties to its customers and that certain brokers and insurers may have engaged in anti-competitive practices in connection with insurance premium quotes. New investigative proceedings may be commenced in the future. These investigations and proceedings could result in legal precedents and new industry-wide practices or legislation, rules or regulations that could significantly affect the insurance industry and the Company. We may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, some regulatory authorities have relatively 25 Table of Contents broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize us. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry, whether federal, state or foreign, or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, restrict the conduct of our business. In certain of our insurance businesses, the rates we charge our policyholders are subject to regulatory approval. Certain lines of business are subject to a greater degree of regulatory scrutiny than others. For example, the workers’ compensation business is highly regulated. For 2008, approximately 15.3% of our net premiums written represented primary workers’ compensation business. Over the past several years, rates for primary workers’ compensation business written in the State of California have declined significantly as a result of workers’ compensation reform. Of our net premiums written during 2008, approximately 1.5% represented primary workers’ compensation business written in the State of California. Risks Relating to Our Business We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all, and, as a result, we could experience losses. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk that we have assumed, known as ceding, to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer contractually liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it does not relieve us, the reinsured, of our liability to our policyholders. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay such recoverables on a timely basis. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, and if our reinsurers fail to pay us, our financial results would be adversely affected. Underwriting results and investment returns of some of our reinsurers may affect their future ability to pay claims. As of December 31, 2008, the amount due from our reinsurers was approximately $931 million, including amounts due from state funds and industry pools. Certain of these amounts due from reinsurers are secured by letters of credit or by funds held in trust on our behalf. We are rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s, and Moody’s, and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Certain of our insurance company subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors. Our ratings are subject to periodic review, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain those ratings. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s, our competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as policyholders move to other companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain amounts of risk underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries, especially catastrophe risks. We also purchase reinsurance on risks underwritten by others which we reinsure. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. Our reinsurance contracts are generally subject to annual renewal. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance contracts or to obtain other reinsurance contracts in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. In addition, we may be unable to obtain reinsurance on terms acceptable to us relating to certain lines of business that we intend to begin writing. If we are unable to renew our expiring contracts or to obtain new reinsurance contracts, either our net exposures would increase or, if 26 Table of Contents we are unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, especially catastrophe exposed risks. Depending on conditions in the financial markets and the ongoing economic downturn, we may be unable to raise debt or equity capital if needed. If the current conditions in the financial markets and the ongoing economic downturn continue, we may be unable to access debt or equity capital on acceptable terms if needed, which could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in our insurance company subsidiaries and/or to take advantage of opportunities to expand our business, such as possible acquisitions and new ventures. Our international operations expose us to investment, political and economic risks, including foreign currency and credit risk. Our expanding international operations in the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, South America, Australia, Canada and Hong Kong expose us to investment, political and economic risks, including foreign currency and credit risk. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investments in non-U.S.-denominated securities are subject to fluctuations in non-U.S. securities and currency markets, and those markets can be volatile. Non-U.S. currency fluctuations also affect the value of any dividends paid by our non-U.S. subsidiaries to their parent companies in the U.S. We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or new insurance ventures and even if we do, we may not successfully integrate any such acquired companies or successfully invest in such ventures. As part of our present strategy, we continue to evaluate possible acquisition transactions and the start-up of complementary businesses on an ongoing basis, and at any given time we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions and new ventures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition transactions or insurance ventures, that such transactions will be financed and completed on acceptable terms or that our future acquisitions or ventures will be successful. The process of integrating any companies we do acquire or investing in new ventures may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. We depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. If the quality of our underwriting team and other personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialized markets in which we operate, and be unable to expand our operations into new markets. Risks Relating to Our Investments A significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed maturity securities and is subject to market fluctuations. Our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed maturity securities. As of December 31, 2008, our investment in fixed maturity securities was approximately $9.7 billion, or 77% of our total investment portfolio. As of that date, our portfolio of fixed maturity securities consisted of the following types of securities: U.S. Government securities (12%); state and municipal securities (58%); corporate securities (10%); mortgage-backed securities (17%) and foreign government bonds (3%). 27 Table of Contents The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value of fixed maturity securities generally decreases as interest rates rise. Conversely, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed maturity securities will be lower. In addition, some fixed maturity securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, carry prepayment risk as a result of interest rate fluctuations. The value of investments in fixed maturity securities is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the credit worthiness of the issuer, default by the issuer (including states and municipalities) in the performance of its obligations in respect of the securities and/or increases in market interest rates. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession. Additionally, our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general decrease in commercial and economic activity for an industry sector in which we invest, as well as risks inherent in particular securities. Although we attempt to manage these risks through the use of investment guidelines and other oversight mechanisms and by diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing preservation of principal, our efforts may not be successful. Impairments, defaults and/or rate increases could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. Investment returns are currently, and will likely continue to remain, under pressure due to the significant volatility and disruption currently experienced in the financial markets, current and continuing economic uncertainty, more generally, and the shape of the yield curve. As a result, our exposure to the risks described above could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We invest some of our assets in equity securities, including merger arbitrage investments, private equity and real estate securities, which may decline in value. We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in equity securities, including merger arbitrage investments, private equity and real estate securities. At December 31, 2008, our investments in equity securities were approximately $1.2 billion, or 9% of our investment portfolio. We reported provisions for other than temporary impairments in the value of our equity securities in the amounts of approximately $427.3 million in 2008, $2.7 million in 2007, $0.1 million in 2006 and $1.6 million in 2005. Merger and convertible arbitrage trading securities represented 25% of our equity securities at December 31, 2008. Merger arbitrage is the business of investing in the securities of publicly held companies that are the targets in announced tender offers and mergers. Merger arbitrage differs from other types of investments in its focus on transactions and events believed likely to bring about a change in value over a relatively short time period, usually four months or less. Our merger arbitrage positions are exposed to the risk associated with the completion of announced deals, which are subject to regulatory as well as political and other risks. Due to the current reduced activity and deal certainty in the merger and acquisitions area, we have not been able to achieve the returns that we have enjoyed in the past. Included in our equity security portfolio are investments in publicly traded real estate investment trusts and private real estate investment funds, real estate limited partnerships and private equity, including venture capital, investments. At December 31, 2008, our investments in these securities were approximately $431 million, or 37% of our equity portfolio. The values of our real estate investments are subject to fluctuations based on changes in the economy in general and real estate valuations in particular. These investments and our private equity investments have been subject to significant volatility as a result of the current conditions in the financial markets. In addition, our investments in real estate investment funds, real estate limited partnerships and private equity funds are less liquid than our other investments. Risks Relating to Purchasing Our Securities We are an insurance holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends in needed amounts. As an insurance holding company, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our insurance company subsidiaries. We have to rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations and for paying dividends to stockholders and corporate expenses. The payment of dividends by our insurance company subsidiaries is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries, as well as regulatory restrictions. During 2009, the maximum amount of dividends that can be paid without regulatory approval is approximately $392 million. As a result, in the future we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet our obligations or pay dividends. 28 Table of Contents We are subject to certain provisions that may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers, which may prevent our stockholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover and make it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, as well as our rights agreement and state insurance statutes, may hinder, delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions or changes of our control. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our current management without the concurrence of our board of directors. These provisions include: • our classified board of directors and the ability of our board to increase its size and to appoint directors to fill newly created directorships; • the requirement that 80% of our stockholders must approve mergers and other transactions between us and the holder of 5% or more of our shares, unless the transaction was approved by our board of directors prior to such holder’s acquisition of 5% of our shares; • the need for advance notice in order to raise business or make nominations at stockholders’ meetings; • our rights agreement which subjects persons (other than William R. Berkley or Franklin Resources, Inc.) who acquire beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock without board approval to substantial dilution; and • state insurance statutes that restrict the acquisition of control (generally defined as 10% of the outstanding shares) of an insurance company without regulatory approval. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 