Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this annual report. Our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed if any of these risks materialize. The trading price of our common stock may also decline due to any of these risks. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The impact and results of our announcement that we are evaluating and exploring strategic alternatives are uncertain and cannot be determined. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we announced a management transition and a process to explore and evaluate strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value. Among the strategic alternatives under consideration is whether a third party would have an interest in acquiring us at a price and on terms that would represent a better value for our shareholders than continued execution of our business plan on a stand-alone basis. There can be no assurance that this process will result in an agreement or transaction, or that, if an agreement is executed, the transaction will be consummated. We undertake no obligation to provide further updates with respect to our evaluation of strategic alternatives. The exploration of strategic alternatives requires the expenditure of significant management time and attention and is also causing us to incur additional expenses, including expenses for financial and legal advisors. This process could distract us from efforts to improve our business to maximize shareholder value and creates uncertainty for our customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we do business. This uncertainty makes it more difficult for us to retain key employees and hire new talent, and could cause our customers and suppliers not to enter into new arrangements with us or to terminate existing arrangements. The pendency of this process or any acquisition proposal will likely increase volatility in the price of our common stock, which would likely decline upon any termination of the process or the termination or withdrawal of any proposal. Additionally, we and members of our board of directors could be subject to future lawsuits related to any acquisition proposal. For example, several law firms have announced that they are investigating possible breaches of fiduciary duty by our board of directors and other violations of state law in connection with our receipt of an acquisition proposal from MSMB Capital Management. Any such future lawsuits, even if baseless, could become time consuming and expensive. Quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate in future periods, and we may fail to meet investor expectations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock could decline significantly. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results include the following: • changes in demand for our products and services, and the ability to obtain the required resources to satisfy customer demand on a cost-effective basis or even to attain the required resources at all; • change in senior management; • the recent changes in our sales and marketing organization, including changes of sales and marketing management; • our ability to develop, introduce, market and gain market acceptance of new products or services in a timely manner; • our ability to manage inventories, accounts receivable and cash flows; • changes in applicable regulatory requirements; • our ability to control costs; and • overall market conditions. The amount of expenses we incur will depend, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue. In addition, since many expenses are fixed in the short term, we cannot significantly reduce expenses if there is a decline in revenue to avoid losses. 10 Our principal shareholders may exert significant influence on us. As of September 30, 2011, the combined group of Jacob Safier and Ltova Holdings LLC, whom we refer to collectively as Ltova, Wellington Management Co, LLP, Coliseum Capital Management, LLC, Black Horse Capital Management, MSMB Capital Management and T Rowe Price Associates, Inc. had publicly reported that they were beneficial owners of approximately 20%, 9%, 7%, 6%, 5% and 5%, respectively, of our common stock. These shareholders can exert significant influence on our management and policies and on the outcome of issues requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of our board of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. The absence of a permanent Chief Executive Officer may disrupt our operations. On July 25, 2011, our board of directors terminated the employment of our prior President and Chief Executive Officer and appointed Gregory A. Gould, our Chief Financial Officer, as interim President and Chief Executive Officer. We also terminated the employment of another member of management. This leadership transition may disrupt our operations and generate concern among customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we do business. Any disruption may lead to additional employee departures and a decline in revenues. Our board of directors has retained a firm to conduct a search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer. The search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer may take longer than we expect, which could extend any period of disruption. Severance costs, executive search fees and other expenses associated with the transition will reduce our earnings. During this leadership transition, Mr. Gould will bear substantial additional leadership responsibilities, which may present challenges as we seek to respond to business opportunities and make significant business decisions with a smaller executive team. Any failure to manage this leadership transition successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends in large part upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees, including certain sales, consulting and technical personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate the qualified personnel who will be essential to our current plans and future development. The competition for such personnel is substantial and we cannot assure you that we will successfully retain our key employees or attract and retain any required additional personnel. The loss of the services of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past, employees have resigned from our company and joined competitors or formed competing companies. The loss of such personnel and the resulting loss of existing or potential clients to any such competitor have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to execute on our strategic plan and reverse our declining profitability. During the last four fiscal quarters, our revenue has been declining relative to comparable periods in fiscal 2010, and our net income has been declining on a sequential basis. Revenue has declined in both our Diagnostic & Biopharmaceutical Products segment and in our BioServices segment, and the declines in our BioServices segment have been accelerating. Our management team, including new sales leadership, has begun to implement a strategy to reverse these declines, but there can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful. If we are unable to execute on our strategic plan, our revenues and profits will likely continue to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from recent changes in our sales force. Over the past year, we have restructured and made other adjustments to our sales force and our sales strategy. Among other things, we have hired a new Vice President, Sales and Marketing and replaced other sales personnel. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these changes for some time, if at all. New sales personnel must familiarize themselves with the markets in which we compete, the features and benefits of our products and services and those of our competitors, as well as the needs and expectations of our customers. We expect that it will take several quarters for each new sales person to achieve the level of productivity that we expect. These changes may disrupt our relationships with our customers and delay or diminish new orders. Our new sales personnel may not achieve the desired level of productivity in the desired timeframe, if at all. If we are unable to realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from our new sales force and sales strategy in the expected timeframe or other unforeseen events occur, our revenues and profits could continue to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Further, any new chief executive officer may bring new ideas to our current sales strategy, which could augment these challenges and further delay the realization of any benefits from these changes. We depend on contracts with government agencies, which if terminated or reduced, would have a material adverse effect on our business. A large percentage of our revenue is derived from sales to government agencies. Such government agencies may be subject to budget cuts, budgetary constraints or a reduction or discontinuation of funding. A significant reduction in funds available for government agencies to purchase professional services and related products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the year ended September 30, 2011, $8.6 million, or 20% of our revenue, was derived from sales to government agencies. 11 We derive a substantial amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Although we provide products and services to many customers, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from a small number of customers. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, our top five customers accounted for 46% of our revenue. In addition, our non-government customer contracts do not specify quantity nor delivery schedules. Instead, our customer orders are driven by purchase orders which makes our product revenue lumpy. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our products and services that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for our products in the end-user marketplace. Our customer concentration exposes us to the risk of changes in the business condition of any of our major customers and to the risk that the loss of a major customer would materially adversely affect revenues and our results of operations. Our relationship with these customers is subject to change. Our operating results could deteriorate if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. Our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to excessive reserves for obsolete products. Our products require incorporation of a wide range of materials which we typically buy in bulk prior to receiving customer orders for the full amount. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in inventory. This approach tends to increase the risk of obsolescence for products we hold in inventory and may compound the difficulties posed by other factors that affect our inventory levels which we have experienced, including the following: • the need to maintain significant inventory of materials that are in limited supply; • the unpredictable demand for products; and • customer requests for quick delivery schedules. The accumulation of excess or obsolete inventory may result in increased inventory reserves, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may need additional capital. In order to conduct operations and remain competitive, we must make investments in research and development to fund new product initiatives, continue to upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities, and actively seek out potential acquisition candidates. Although we believe that internal cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital and normal operating requirements for at least the next fiscal year, we cannot assure you that cash generated from operations will be sufficient and, even if sufficient, we may not be able to fund our planned research and development, capital investment programs, and potential acquisitions without seeking additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on a variety of factors, some of which may not be within our control, including investor perceptions of our management, our business, and the industries in which we operate. Our publicly announced exploration of strategic alternatives may also make it more difficult to raise additional capital. In December 2010, we established secured credit facilities in the aggregate amount of $20.0 million, consisting of a $5.0 million revolving credit facility, which is governed by a borrowing base, and a $15.0 million term loan facility. These facilities are currently scheduled to expire in February 2012. Our ability to finance organic growth as well as future acquisitions under our secured credit facilities will be subject to certain conditions as set forth in the loan agreement governing our secured credit facilities, including our borrowing capacity thereunder. Even if we are able to access our secured credit facilities, we cannot assure you that our borrowing capacity thereunder, combined with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to conduct operations and achieve our goals. In that event, we may need to raise additional capital. Recent conditions in the banking system and financial markets have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity in many financial markets, and volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. If we raise money through additional borrowings, we may become subject to new restrictive covenants and high interest rates, which would increase the total cost of conducting operations. However, there can be no assurance that additional borrowing resources will be available promptly, on favorable terms or at all. If we raise money through the issuance of equity securities, your stock ownership will be diluted. Our stock price has been volatile as a result of overall conditions in the financial markets and other factors. A decline in the price of our common stock may adversely impact our ability to fund our operations through the issuance of equity securities. The issuance of additional equity securities by us following a decline in our stock price may result in a significant dilution of your stock ownership. Any inability to successfully raise needed capital on a timely or cost-effective basis could adversely affect our short-term liquidity and our ability to make investments in research and development to fund new product initiatives, continue to upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities, and actively seek out potential acquisition candidates, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 12 An interruption in the supply of diagnostic and therapeutic products that we purchase from third parties could cause a decline in our revenue. We purchase raw materials, components, services and equipment used in the manufacturing of our products, and the loss of, or disruption to, any supplier could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products. We may experience an interruption of supply if a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our time, quantity and quality requirements. There are relatively few alternative suppliers for some of our raw materials and components. Any or all of these suppliers could discontinue manufacturing or supplying these products and components, experience interruptions in their operations or raise their prices. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternative suppliers may result in production delays and increased costs, limit our ability to deliver products to our customers or make our products unprofitable. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify alternative sources of supply, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs, increased prices for our products and lost revenue. In addition, we compete with large companies as well as smaller, independent plasma collection centers and brokers of plasma products for plasma source material and processing. We may be unable to realize our growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities in the future or if we cannot integrate acquired businesses or technologies into our business. As part of our business strategy, we expect to grow our business through acquisitions of technologies or companies. We may not identify or complete complementary acquisitions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all. In addition, we compete with other companies, including large, well-funded competitors, to acquire suitable targets, and may be unable to acquire certain targets that we seek. There can be no assurance that we will be able to execute this component of our growth strategy, which may harm our business and hinder our future growth. To achieve desired growth rates, we may seek larger and/or public companies as potential acquisition candidates. The acquisition of a public company may involve additional risks, including the potential for lack of recourse against public shareholders for undisclosed material liabilities of the acquired business. In addition, if we were to proceed with one or more significant future acquisitions in which the consideration consisted of cash, a substantial portion of our available cash resources could be used. Furthermore, for any such acquisition, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including expenses associated with a change of control. If we pursue an acquisition that is not completed for any reason, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, including anticipated net reductions in costs and expenses, and our stock price may decline to the extent that it reflects a market assumption that the acquisition would be completed. Although we would expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits from any acquisition that we do complete, we cannot predict whether and to what extent such benefits will be achieved. Working through integration issues is complex, time-consuming and expensive and could significantly disrupt our business. There are significant challenges to integrating any acquired operations into our business, including: • successfully managing and assimilating the operations, facilities and technology of the acquired businesses; • maintaining and increasing the customer base for the acquired products; • demonstrating to customers and suppliers that the acquisitions will not result in adverse changes in service standards or business focus; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; • retaining key employees and maintaining employee morale, integrating cultures and management structures and accurately forecasting employee benefit costs; • consolidating our management information, inventory, accounting and other systems; • our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; • increased pressure on our staff and on our operating systems; and 13 • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business. Our failure to successfully integrate and operate any acquired businesses, and to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions, could adversely impact our operating performance and financial results. Lack of early success with our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers can shut us out of future business with those customers. Many of the products we sell to pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers are incorporated into the customers’ drug manufacturing processes. In some cases, once a customer chooses a particular product for use in a diagnostic and therapeutic testing process or drug manufacturing process, it is less likely that the customer will later switch to a competing alternative. In many cases, the regulatory license for the product will specify the separation and cell culture supplement products qualified for use in the process. Obtaining the regulatory approvals needed for a change in the manufacturing process is time consuming, expensive and uncertain. Accordingly, if we fail to convince a diagnostic or therapeutic customer to choose our products early in its manufacturing design phase, we may permanently lose the opportunity to participate in the customer’s production of such product. Because we face vigorous competition in this market from companies with substantial financial and technical resources, we run the risk that our competitors will win significant early business with a customer making it difficult for us to recover that opportunity. Our profits will likely decline if we are unable to pass price increases on to customers or obtain necessary raw materials at their current prices. Some of our customer contracts are firm, fixed-price contracts, providing for a predetermined fixed price for the products that we sell, regardless of the costs we incur. If we experience significant increases in the expense of producing products due to increased cost of materials, components, labor, capital equipment or other factors and are unable to pass such increases through to our customers, our profitability will likely decline. The cost of producing our products and services is also sensitive to the price of energy. The selling prices of our products and services have not always increased in response to raw material, energy or other cost increases and we are unable to determine to what extent, if any, we will be able to pass future cost increases through to our customers. Our inability to pass increased costs through to our customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to improve our product offerings and develop and introduce new products may negatively impact our business. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to improve our product offerings and develop and introduce new product lines and extensions that integrate new technological advances. If we are unable to integrate technological advances into our product offerings or to design, develop, manufacture and market new product lines and extensions successfully and in a timely manner, our operating results will be adversely affected. While we expect to continue to invest in research and development for all of our market segments, we cannot assure you that our product and process development efforts will be successful or that new products we introduce will achieve market acceptance. 14 We are subject to the risks associated with international sales. International sales accounted for 23% of our revenue during the year ended September 30, 2011. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. Risks associated with these sales include: • changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • export controls; • United States and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; • changes in tax laws and tariffs; and • political and economic instability. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We sell our products in certain international markets mainly through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption in operations and a resulting loss of revenue. If we fail to maintain adequate quality standards for our products and services, our business may be adversely affected and our reputation harmed. Our customers are subject to rigorous quality standards in order to maintain their products and the manufacturing processes and testing methods that generate them. A failure to sustain the specified quality requirements, including the processing and testing functions performed by our products, could result in the loss of the applicable regulatory license. Delays or quality lapses in our customers’ production lines could result in substantial economic losses to them and to us. For example, large production lots of plasma are expensive and a failure to properly categorize the disease state of plasma could result in the contamination of the entire lot, requiring its destruction and replacement at our cost. We also perform services that may be considered an extension of our customers’ manufacturing and quality assurance processes, which also require the maintenance of prescribed levels of quality. Although we believe that our attention to quality adequately addresses these risks, we may experience occasional or systemic quality lapses in our manufacturing and service operations. If we experience significant or prolonged quality problems, our business and reputation may be harmed, which may result in the loss of customers, our inability to participate in future customer product opportunities and reduced revenue and earnings. We rely heavily on air cargo carriers and other third-party package delivery services, and a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to import or export materials, increase our costs and lower our profitability. We ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies. In addition, we transport materials among our facilities and import raw materials from worldwide sources. Consequently, we rely heavily on air cargo carriers and third-party package delivery providers. If any of our key third-party package delivery providers experiences a significant disruption such that any of our products, components or raw materials cannot be delivered in a timely fashion or such that we incur additional shipping costs that we could not pass on to our customers, our costs may increase and our relationships with our customers may be adversely affected. In particular, our products are particularly sensitive to temperature and delays in shipping could damage the products. In addition, if our third-party package delivery providers increase prices and we are not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments to our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. 15 We have limited manufacturing capabilities, and if our manufacturing capabilities are insufficient to produce an adequate supply of products at appropriate quality levels, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently have limited resources and facilities for the commercial manufacturing of sufficient quantities of product to meet expected demand. We have focused significant effort on continual improvement programs in our manufacturing operations intended to improve quality, yields and throughput. Although we believe we currently have sufficient capacity in manufacturing to enable us to supply adequate amounts of product to support our commercialization efforts, there can be no assurance that supply will not be constrained going forward. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we underestimate growth, we may not have the capability to satisfy market demand and our business will suffer. The cost of compliance or failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may adversely affect our business. As a non-accelerated filer, we are not subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that require an attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cease to qualify as a non-accelerated filer, we would become subject to this requirement, which may cause us to incur substantial additional costs and may adversely affect our financial results. The failure of our independent registered public accounting firm to concur with management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may result in a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements (which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock), prevent us from providing the required financial information in a timely manner (which could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock), prevent us from otherwise complying with the standards applicable to us as a public company and subject us to adverse regulatory consequences. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business, revenues and results of operations. The technology and designs underlying our products are not generally protected by patent rights. Our future success is dependent primarily on non-patented trade secrets and on the innovative skills, technological expertise and management abilities of our employees. Our intellectual property rights may not preclude or inhibit competitors from producing products that have identical performance as our products. In addition, if we attempt to recover damages arising from misappropriation of any intellectual property that we protect as a trade secret, we cannot guarantee that trade secret protection will be available. Any intellectual property litigation, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could divert the attention and resources of our management. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer and marketer of various diagnostic and therapeutic products, we may face adverse publicity and potential claims regarding the performance, quality or safety of our products. Any product liability claims, such as claims challenging performance, quality or safety of our products may result in substantial damages and expenses as well as a decline in sales for our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be true even if the claims themselves are proven not to be true or are settled for immaterial amounts. Our product liability insurance may be inadequate to cover any product liability claims we may face. 16 A disaster at our facilities could substantially impact our business. A natural disaster or other unanticipated problem could, among other things, delay the shipment of our products, affect our ability to receive and fulfill orders and hinder our research and development efforts. For example, our two facilities in Maryland store approximately 14 million biological samples for our government and commercial customers, and such samples are irreplaceable. Additionally, our Milford facility is our primary manufacturing plant. An earthquake, hurricane, fire, other disaster or extended power outage at any of these locations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage does not cover terrorism or all natural disasters, in particular, floods, and may be inadequate to compensate us for losses we incur as a result of a natural disaster or other problem. Our secured credit facilities impose certain restrictions on our ability to take certain actions which may have an impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our secured credit facilities impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests, including a maximum consolidated senior leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated debt service coverage ratio. These restrictions may significantly limit or prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions, including the following: • Incurring additional indebtedness or raising other capital; • Incurring liens on our assets; • Engaging in mergers, consolidations, acquisitions of other businesses, or disposition of assets; • paying dividends or other distributions to our stockholders, or redeeming, repurchasing or retiring our capital stock in excess of specific limits; and • making investments, loans and advances. These restrictions may limit or restrict our cash flow and our ability to pursue business opportunities or strategies that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. The failure to comply with any of these restrictive covenants would cause a default under our secured credit facilities. A default includes a “change of control,” as defined in the loan agreement governing our secured credit facilities. If a default occurs, we may not be able to obtain a waiver or otherwise renegotiate the terms of our secured credit facilities on terms acceptable to us. A default, if not waived, could prevent us from borrowing under the secured credit facilities, could result in the termination of the secured credit facilities, could cause any outstanding debt thereunder to become immediately due and payable, and could result in our lenders thereunder proceeding against the collateral securing the debt. If any outstanding debt became immediately due and payable, we may not be able to repay the debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it, and even if new financing is available, it may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to protect our information systems and electronic transmissions of sensitive data from data corruption, cyber-based attacks and security breaches is critical to the success of our business. We depend heavily on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store electronic information, including credit card and other personal information of our customers. Our existing security measures may be insufficient to protect us against all potential security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and other forms of sabotage. Any increase in the risk of security breaches could cause us to incur additional costs to mitigate that risk, including additional personnel, equipment, software and other third-party services to augment our existing security measures. Any security breach could lead to system disruptions or shutdowns, the loss or corruption of data, or unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential information, any of which could seriously harm our business. A security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation and relationships with our customers, require us to comply with disparate state breach notification laws and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs and loss of revenue. A security breach that destroys, corrupts or impairs the reliability of our data could also impair the effectiveness of our internal control over financing reporting, which could delay required filings with the SEC, result in the delisting of our common stock, impair our ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our industry faces reduced demand as a result of the economic downturn. Our business is exposed to the risk that adverse economic conditions will reduce or defer the demand for research and development that utilize our products. The demand for our products may fluctuate based upon a variety of factors, including the business and financial condition of our customers and on economic and financial conditions, particularly as they affect the key sectors in which our customers operate. Economic downturns or unfavorable changes in the financial and credit markets could have an adverse effect on the operations, budgets and overall financial condition of our customers. As a result, our customers may reduce their overall spending on research and development, purchase fewer of our products by reducing the amount they use or using their existing inventory, lengthen sales cycles, or delay, defer or cancel purchases of our products. Furthermore, our customers may be less able to timely finance or pay for the products which they have purchased. We cannot predict the impact, timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, either generally or in our industry, or of any disruptions in the financial and credit markets. If the challenges in the financial and credit markets or the downturn in the economy or the markets in which we operate persist or worsen from present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our industry may be adversely affected by the current sovereign debt crisis in Europe and elsewhere and by related global economic conditions. The current European debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the European currencies, including the Euro, to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of European customers and reducing the translated amounts of U.S. dollar revenues. International sales accounted for 23% of our revenue during the year ended September 30, 2011 and sales to customers within Europe accounted for 17% of our revenue during this same period. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. In addition, the European crisis is contributing to instability in global credit markets. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe, the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, customers' purchasing power and demand for our products could decline, and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 The industries and market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively with larger companies with greater financial resources than we have. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and often lack significant barriers to entry, enabling new businesses to enter these markets relatively easily. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, making them better equipped to license technologies and intellectual property from third parties or to fund research and development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. Moreover, competitive conditions in many markets in which we operate restrict our ability to implement price increases to fully recover any higher costs of acquired goods and services resulting from inflation and other drivers of cost increases. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. Although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, maintaining these advantages will require us to continue to invest in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. Competition for customers depends primarily on the ability to provide products or services of the quality and in the quantity required by customers. If we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, we will compete with many other companies that may have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our failure to provide products of the quality and quantity demanded by our customers and successfully market new products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our disease state products are derived from donors with rare characteristics, resulting in increased competition for such donors. If we are unable to maintain and expand our donor base, this could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to significant regulation by the government and other regulatory authorities. Our business is heavily regulated in the United States and internationally. In addition to FDA regulations regarding, among other matters, the testing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, export, and marketing of blood products and IVD products, various other federal, state, local and foreign regulations also apply and can be, in some cases, more restrictive. If we fail to comply with FDA or other regulatory requirements, we could be subjected to civil and criminal penalties, or even required to suspend or cease operations. Any such actions could severely curtail our sales to biologics companies. Failure of our plasma suppliers or customers to comply with FDA requirements could also adversely affect us. In addition, more restrictive laws, regulations or interpretations could be adopted, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business. We also invest significant resources in developing quality assurance programs, such as ISO certification. Any non-compliance with existing laws or regulations could materially harm our business. Moreover, healthcare reform is continually under consideration by regulators, and we do not know how laws and regulations will change in the future. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act, may result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the our business. We are subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens and infectious and hazardous waste, as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees. All of our laboratories are subject to applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal of all laboratory specimens, and we utilize outside vendors for disposal of such specimens. In addition, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and HBV. These requirements, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all applicable standards or that violations will not occur. Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, more restrictive laws, rules and regulations or enforcement policies could be adopted in the future which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business or prospects. Changes in demand for plasma-derived products and the availability of donated plasma could affect profitability. A majority of our business depends on the availability of donated plasma. Only a small percentage of the population donates plasma and regulations intended to reduce the risk of introducing infectious diseases in the blood supply have decreased the pool of potential donors. If the level of donor participation declines, we may not be able to obtain adequate supply at a reasonable cost to maintain profitability in plasma-derived products. We are subject to governmental reforms and the adequacy of reimbursement. Our products and services are primarily intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently being used in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has changed significantly in an effort to reduce costs. These changes include increased use of managed care, cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels, consolidation of pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply distributors, and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these changes, such as adverse changes in government funding of healthcare services, legislation or regulations governing the privacy and security of health information, or the delivery or pricing of pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to greatly reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. Additional regulation and continued fiscal pressure may adversely affect our business. 18 Foreign restrictions on importation and exportation of blood derivatives could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Concern over blood safety has led to movements in a number of European and other countries to restrict the importation and exportation of blood and blood derivatives, including antibodies collected outside the countries’ borders or, in the case of certain European countries, outside Europe. To date, these efforts have not led to any meaningful restriction on the importation or exportation of blood or blood derivates and have not adversely affected our business. Such restrictions, however, continue to be debated, and there can be no assurance that such restrictions will not be imposed in the future. If imposed, such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Our stock price could be volatile. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may be more volatile in the future. Factors such as the announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by us or by our competitors, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results and market conditions for healthcare stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The generally low volume of trading in our common stock makes it more vulnerable to rapid changes in price in response to market conditions. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have anti-takeover effects. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects and may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that might be considered in the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions, among other things: • require shareholders to provide advance notice of any nomination for director or any other business to be transacted at any meeting of shareholders; • eliminate cumulative voting rights; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock having such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors, without any vote or further action by our shareholders; and • eliminate the right of shareholders to act by written consent. Our shareholders’ ability to sell shares of our stock may be limited. Based on public reports filed as of September 30, 2011 by six of our shareholders; Ltova, Wellington Management Co, LLP, Coliseum Capital Management, LLC, Black Horse Capital Management, MSMB Capital Management and T Rowe Price Associates, these shareholders collectively beneficially own approximately 52% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, we have a very limited number of shares in our public float, and as a result, there could be extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock and the ability to buy and sell our shares could be impaired. If any or all of these shareholders were to liquidate their shares, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Our stock could be delisted if our stock price falls below $1.00. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable NASDAQ Capital Market requirements, our stock could be delisted by The NASDAQ Capital Market. For example, under NASDAQ rules, our stock price must remain at or above $1.00 per share price for continued listing under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a). Delisting would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our business. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. 19 We may issue preferred stock in the future. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our board of directors may, without further action by our shareholders, issue preferred stock in one or more series with rights senior to those of our common stock. These rights may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation and conversion and redemption rights. Although we have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock or to create any new series of preferred stock, the issuance of preferred stock could affect the rights, or even reduce the value, of our common stock. We do not intend to make dividend payments. We intend to retain any future earnings for use in our business and therefore do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any cash dividends in the future will depend on our earnings, financial condition, capital needs and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. In addition, our loan agreement prohibits the payment of dividends during the term of the agreement. We face additional risks. In addition to the foregoing risk factors, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed by additional factors, including but not limited to the following: • our ability to maintain favorable agreements and relationships with major customers and suppliers; • our ability to maintain and expand our customer base; • increased competition for donors, which may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified donors; • our ability to meet future customer demand for plasma products; and • changes in industry trends, customer specifications and demand, market demand in general and potential foreign restrictions of the importation of our products. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 