Item 1A: Risk Factors An investment in the Company entails the following risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider these risk factors when evaluating any investment in the Company. Any of these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements set forth herein, and could otherwise have a significant adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations or on the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We are leveraged, future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of January 1, 2006, the aggregate amount of our outstanding indebtedness, including capital leases, was approximately $101.9 million. Our highly leveraged financial position means: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to service our indebtedness; • our ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes might be impeded; • we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and our ability to withstand competitive pressures is limited: and • we are more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, which may affect our interest expense and negatively impact our operating results. If our business declines, our future cash flow might not be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments. If we fail to make any required payment under our financing agreement, our debt may be accelerated under this instrument. In addition, in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency or a material breach of any covenant contained in 7 Table of Contents our financing agreement, our debt may be accelerated. This acceleration could also result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have outstanding at that time. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our obligations and commitments, we will be required to refinance or restructure our indebtedness or raise additional debt or equity capital. Additionally, we may be required to sell material assets or operations or delay or forego expansion opportunities. These alternative strategies might not be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all. The terms of our financing agreement impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The terms of our financing agreement impose operating and financial restrictions on us, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create or allow liens, pay dividends, engage in mergers, acquisitions or reorganizations or make specified capital expenditures. For example, our ability to engage in the foregoing transactions will depend upon, among other things, our level of indebtedness at the time of the proposed transaction and whether we are in default under our financing agreement. As a result, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy or otherwise benefit us without obtaining consent from our lenders. In addition, our financing agreement is secured by a first priority security interest in our trade accounts receivable, merchandise inventories, service marks and trademarks and other general intangible assets, including trade names. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our financing agreement would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. If we are unable to successfully implement our controlled growth strategy or manage our growing business, our future operating results could suffer. One of our strategies includes opening profitable stores in new and existing markets. Our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy could be negatively affected by any of the following: • suitable sites may not be available for leasing; • we may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease terms; • we might not be able to hire and retain qualified store personnel; and • we might not have the financial resources necessary to fund our expansion plans. In addition, our expansion in new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution and merchandising challenges that differ from our current challenges. These potential new challenges include competition among our stores, added strain on our distribution center, additional information to be processed by our management information systems and diversion of management attention from ongoing operations. We face additional challenges in entering new markets, including consumers’ lack of awareness of us, difficulties in hiring personnel and problems due to our unfamiliarity with local real estate markets and demographics. New markets may also have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. To the extent that we are not able to meet these new challenges, our net sales could decrease and our operating costs could increase. Because our stores are concentrated in the western United States, we are subject to regional risks. Our stores are located in the western United States. Because of this, we are subject to regional risks, such as the economy, weather conditions, power outages, electricity costs and earthquakes and other natural disasters specific to the states in which we operate. For example, particularly in southern California where we have a high concentration of stores, seasonal factors such as unfavorable snow conditions (such as those that occurred in the winter of 2005-2006), inclement weather (such as the unusually heavy rains that occurred in winter 2004-2005) or other localized conditions such as flooding, fires (such as the major fires in 2003), earthquakes or electricity blackouts could harm our operations. State and local regulatory compliance also can impact our financial results. If 8 Table of Contents the region were to suffer an economic downturn or other adverse regional event, our net sales and profitability and our ability to implement our planned expansion program could suffer. Several of our competitors operate stores across the United States and thus are not as vulnerable to these regional risks. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of Steven G. Miller, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other key personnel who are not obligated to stay with us. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business and operations. In addition, as our business grows, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in a timely manner and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management level sales associates and other employees. Competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages and benefits to attract a sufficient number of employees, and increases in the federal minimum wage or other employee benefits costs could increase our operating expenses. If we are unable to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future, our net sales growth and operating results may suffer. Our hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage that could harm our business. Our success, in particular our ability to successfully manage inventory levels, largely depends upon the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to track inventory information at the store level, communicate customer information and aggregate daily sales information. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failure, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic loss of data or security breaches, misappropriation and similar events; and • computer viruses. Any failure that causes an interruption in our operations or a decrease in inventory tracking could result in reduced net sales and profitability. If our suppliers do not provide sufficient quantities of products, our net sales and profitability could suffer. We purchase merchandise from over 750 vendors. Although we did not rely on any single vendor for more than 4.9% of our total purchases during the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006, our dependence on principal suppliers involves risk. Our 20 largest vendors collectively accounted for 36.3% of our total purchases during the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006. If there is a disruption in supply from a principal supplier or distributor, we may be unable to obtain merchandise that we desire to sell and that consumers desire to purchase. In addition, a significant portion of the products that we purchase, including those purchased from domestic suppliers, are manufactured abroad. A vendor could discontinue selling products to us at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control. Our net sales and profitability could decline if we are unable to promptly replace a vendor who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with a vendor providing equally appealing products. Disruptions at shipping ports at which our products are imported could prevent us from timely distribution and delivery of inventory, which could reduce our sales and profitability. From time to time, shipping ports experience capacity constraints, labor strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions that may delay the delivery of imported products. For example, the Port of Los Angeles, through which a substantial amount of the products manufactured abroad that we sell are imported, experienced delays in fiscal 2004 in distribution of products being imported through the Port to their final destination due to difficulties associated with capacity limitations. Future disruptions at a shipping port at which our products are received, whether due to delays at the Port of Los Angeles or otherwise, may result in delays in the transportation of such products to our 9 Table of Contents distribution center and ultimately delay the stocking of our stores with the affected merchandise. As a result, our net sales, including same store sales, and profitability could decline. All of our stores rely on a single distribution center into which we have only recently transitioned. Any disruption or other operational difficulties at this new distribution center could reduce our net sales or increase our operating costs. We rely on a single distribution center to service our business. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to the distribution center due to fire, earthquake or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair both our ability to adequately stock our stores and our net sales, including same store sales, and profitability. If the security measures used at our distribution center do not prevent inventory theft, our gross margin may significantly decrease. Due to limited capacity at our Fontana, California distribution center, we entered into a ten-year lease with three five-year renewal options for a replacement distribution center in April 2004. Construction began on the new distribution center in the third quarter of fiscal 2004 and was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Accordingly, we have only recently completed the transition to the new distribution center in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, and we therefore have very little operational experience or history at this facility. Any disruption or operational difficulties in the functioning of the new facility could harm our future operations, particularly if such difficulties either affect our ability to adequately stock our stores or increase our operating costs. In the event that we are unable to achieve anticipated operational benefits or efficiencies from the new facility, our operations could suffer and our financial results could be negatively impacted. Recently enacted securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Act”) that became law in July 2002, as well as new rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC, have required changes in some of our corporate governance practices. In addition to final rules issued by the SEC, Nasdaq also revised its requirements for companies that are quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.’s National Market. These new rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more difficult, time consuming and/or costly. These new rules and regulations have also made it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Increased costs or declines in the effectiveness of print advertising could cause our operating results to suffer. Our business relies heavily on print advertising. We utilize print advertising programs that include newspaper inserts, direct mailers and courier-delivered inserts in order to effectively deliver our message to our targeted markets. A decline in newspaper circulation or readership could limit the number of people who receive or read our advertisements. If we are unable to develop other effective strategies to reach potential customers within our desired markets, awareness of our stores, products and promotions could decline and our net sales could suffer. In addition, an increase in the cost of print advertising, paper or postal or other delivery fees could increase the cost of our advertising and adversely affect our operating results. Risks Related to Our Industry A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could reduce our net sales. In general, our sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, electricity power rates, gasoline prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, 10 Table of Contents including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our net sales and profitability could decline. Seasonal fluctuations in the sales of sporting goods could cause our annual operating results to suffer significantly. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating results. In fiscal 2005, we generated 26.9% of our net sales and 29.5% of our operating income in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday selling season as well as the peak winter sports selling season. As a result, we incur significant additional expenses in the fourth fiscal quarter due to higher purchase volumes and increased staffing. If we miscalculate the demand for our products generally or for our product mix during the fourth fiscal quarter, our net sales could decline, resulting in excess inventory, which could harm our financial performance. Because a substantial portion of our operating income is derived from our fourth fiscal quarter net sales, a shortfall in expected fourth fiscal quarter net sales could cause our annual operating results to suffer significantly. Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The retail market for sporting goods is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. We compete directly or indirectly with the following categories of companies: • other traditional sporting goods stores and chains; • mass merchandisers, discount stores and department stores, such as Wal-Mart, Kmart, Target, Kohl’s, JC Penney, and Sears; • specialty sporting goods shops and pro shops, such as Foot Locker and Gander Mountain; • sporting goods superstores, such as Dick’s Sporting Goods and The Sports Authority, Inc., and its other operating units, Oshman’s, Sportmart and Gart Sports Company; and • catalog and internet retailers. Some of our competitors have a larger number of stores and greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we have. Two of our major competitors, The Sports Authority, Inc. and Gart Sports Company (including its other operating units, Oshman’s and Sportmart), completed a merger in August 2003 and now operate under the name The Sports Authority, Inc. In July 2004 two other sporting goods superstores combined when Dick’s Sporting Goods, Inc. acquired Galyan’s Trading Company, Inc. In 2004 the specialty outdoor superstores Gander Mountain Company and Cabela’s Incorporated completed initial public offerings of their common stock, increasing their access to capital. If our competitors reduce their prices, it may be difficult for us to reach our net sales goals without reducing our prices. As a result of this competition, we may also need to spend more on advertising and promotion than we anticipate. If we are unable to compete successfully, our operating results will suffer. We may incur costs from litigation or increased regulation relating to products that we sell, particularly firearms. We sell products manufactured by third parties, some of which may be defective. If any product that we sell were to cause physical injury or injury to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us as the retailer of the product. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover every claim that could be asserted against us. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could harm our business. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, our products are subject to the Federal Consumer Product Safety Act, which empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission to protect consumers from hazardous sporting goods and other articles. The Consumer Product Safety Commission has the authority to exclude from the market certain consumer products that are found to be hazardous. Similar laws exist in some states and cities in the United States. If we fail to comply with government and industry safety standards, we may be subject to claims, lawsuits, fines and negative publicity that could harm our operating results. 11 Table of Contents In addition, we sell firearms and ammunition, products associated with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits. Sales of firearms and ammunition have historically represented less than 5% of our annual net sales. We may incur losses due to lawsuits relating to our performance of background checks on firearms purchases as mandated by state and federal law or the improper use of firearms sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from firearms manufacturers and retailers relating to the misuse of firearms. In addition, in the future there may be increased federal, state or local regulation, including taxation, of the sale of firearms in both our current markets as well as future markets in which we may operate. Commencement of these lawsuits against us or the establishment of new regulations could reduce our net sales and decrease our profitability. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, we may experience lower net sales, higher inventory markdowns and lower margins. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty. These preferences are also subject to change. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in sporting goods merchandise and consumers’ participation in sports. If we fail to identify and respond to these changes, our net sales may decline. In addition, because we often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors up to six months in advance of the proposed delivery, if we misjudge the market for our merchandise, we may over-stock unpopular products and be forced to take inventory markdowns that could have a negative impact on profitability. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war may harm our operating results. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to us and our employees, facilities, information systems, vendors, and customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The threat of terrorist attacks since September 11, 2001 continues to create many economic and political uncertainties. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility may cause greater uncertainty and cause our business to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. Military action taken by the United States and its allies in Iraq or elsewhere could have a short or long term negative economic impact upon the financial markets and our business in general. Risks Related to Investing in Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Substantial amounts of our common stock could be sold in the near future, which could depress our stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that the availability of shares of common stock for sale will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. At March 10, 2006, there were 22,703,777 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of these shares are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, except for any shares held by our affiliates, sales of which will be limited by Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Sales of a significant number of these shares of common stock in the public market could reduce the market price of the common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of us and our stockholders. Our dividend policy may be affected by, among 12 Table of Contents other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, the terms of our debt instruments, legal risks, changes in Federal income tax law and challenges to our business model. Our dividend policy may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. A change in our dividend policy could have a negative effect on our stock price. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if such change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • a board of directors that is classified such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; • authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibition of stockholder action by written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporations Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the transaction may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Item 1B: Unresolved Comments from the Staff Regarding Past Reports None. 