ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the factors discussed below, which are the risks that we believe are material at this time. These risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY Our business is subject to the impact of domestic and international market and economic conditions which are beyond our control and which could significantly reduce our trading volumes and make our financial results more volatile. Our revenue is substantially dependent on the trading volume in our markets. Our trading volume is directly affected by U.S. domestic and international factors that are beyond our control, including: • economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; • natural disasters and other catastrophes; • broad trends in industry and finance; • changes in price levels, trading volumes and volatility in the derivatives markets and in underlying fixed-income, equity, foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity markets; • changes in global or regional demand or supply shifts in commodities underlying our products; • legislative and regulatory changes, including any direct or indirect restrictions on or increased costs associated with trading in our markets; • competition; • changes in government monetary policies; • consolidation in our customer base and within our industry; and • inflation. Any one or more of these factors may contribute to reduced activity in our markets. Historically, our trading volume has tended to increase during periods of heightened uncertainty due to increased hedging activity and the increased need to manage the risks associated with, or speculate on, volatility in the U.S. equity markets, fluctuations in interest rates and price changes in the foreign exchange, commodity and other markets. However, during the economic volatility that began in 2008, we have experienced decreased volume due primarily to our customers decreasing their risk exposure, stable low interest rates and the lack of available capital. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful. This trend as well as future economic uncertainty may result in continued decreased trading volume and a more difficult business environment for us. Material decreases in trading volume would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We operate in a heavily regulated environment that imposes significant costs and competitive burdens on our business and such environment is currently undergoing significant reform. Our business has been extensively regulated by the CFTC. In response to the economic crisis, in July 2010, Dodd-Frank was signed into law. This new legislation is a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package that includes significant changes to the oversight of the derivatives markets, both over-the-counter and exchange traded. In accordance with Dodd-Frank, the CFTC’s authority will be significantly expanded to include over-the-counter derivatives. While we believe that the new regulations provide opportunities for our business which we intend to explore, Dodd-Frank is subject to extensive rulemaking by the CFTC, the SEC, the Department of Treasury and other regulators. In light of the uncertainty of the final implementation of 18 Table of Contents Dodd-Frank, there is a risk that the final regulations could include provisions that could negatively impact our business. For example, Dodd-Frank provides for certain restrictions on swap dealing and proprietary trading, enhancements to the margin requirements and imposes position limits for particular energy, metals and agricultural commodities. To the extent these provisions negatively impact the trading activity of our customers, our trading volumes and related revenues may be impacted. Dodd-Frank also provides for central clearing of “clearable” over-the-counter swaps and requires that swaps that are cleared must be traded on exchanges or swap execution facilities, unless no exchange or swap execution facility makes the swap available for trading. While these new requirements create new opportunities for us to expand our over-the-counter business, a number of market participants and exchanges have developed, and likely will develop in the future, competing platforms and products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or that our initiatives will be successful. To the extent rulemaking stemming from Dodd Frank includes a more prescriptive regulatory approach, our ability to efficiently operate our business could be impaired. Our subsidiaries, CME Clearing Europe and CME Marketing Europe, are also subject to the supervision and oversight of the FSA. The regulatory environment in the United Kingdom and the European Union is undergoing significant reforms in connection with the oversight of the financial services industry, and legislations similar to those included in Dodd-Frank have been proposed. To the extent the regulatory environment following the implementation of Dodd-Frank and other financial reform regulations is less beneficial for us or our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected. As a global company with operations around the world we are also subject to the laws and regulations in the locations in which we do business. We cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers, employees and affiliates will be able to fully comply with these rules and regulations. We also cannot assure you that we will not be subject to claims or actions by these agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our designations as a contract market and derivatives clearing organization. From time to time, including in the currently proposed Presidential budget, a proposal to impose a transaction tax or user fee on futures trading has been put forth and discussed as a means to fund the CFTC. In the current environment, the transaction tax has been discussed as a means to fund the increased budget the CFTC has requested from Congress in order to implement Dodd Frank. In the past, efforts to implement a transaction tax or user fee have not been successful. Although not specified, if enacted, we believe such a tax or user fee likely would apply to transactions done on regulated futures exchanges and swap execution facilities and increase the costs of doing business on such platforms. This may discourage institutions and individuals from using futures and/or swap contracts to manage their risks which could adversely impact our trading volumes, revenues and profits and may also adversely impact our ability to compete on an international level. A transaction tax or user fee in the U.S. may also cause market participants to increase their derivatives trading in jurisdictions outside the U.S. which do not impose a comparable cost. The current tax treatment for futures trading allows traders to pay a blend of taxes on their gains and losses from trading futures and options with 60% at capital gains rates and 40% at ordinary tax rates. The current 2010 Presidential budget proposes the elimination of such tax treatment which would require that such gains or losses be treated as ordinary in character. Any repeal of 60-40 tax treatment would impose a substantial increase in tax rates applicable to the individuals who are most responsible for creating liquid and efficient markets. 19 Table of Contents Some of our largest clearing firms have indicated their belief that clearing facilities should not be owned or controlled by exchanges and should be operated as utilities and not for profit. These clearing firms have sought, and may seek in the future, legislative or regulatory changes that would, if adopted, enable them to use alternative clearing services for positions established on our exchanges or to freely move open positions among clearing houses in order to take advantage of our liquidity. Even if they are not successful, these factors may cause them to limit the use of our markets. Some of our largest clearing firms, which are significant customers and intermediaries in our products, have stressed the importance to them of centralizing clearing of futures contracts and options on futures contracts in order to maximize the efficient use of their capital, exercise greater control over their value at risk and extract greater operating leverage from clearing activities. Many clearing firms have expressed the view that clearing firms should control the governance of clearing houses or that clearing houses should be operated as utilities rather than as part of for-profit enterprises. Some of these firms, along with the Futures Industry Association and the Department of Treasury, have sought, and may seek in the future, legislative or regulatory changes to be adopted that would facilitate mechanisms or policies that allow market participants to transfer positions from an exchange-owned clearing house to a clearing house owned and controlled by clearing firms. Our strategic business plan is to operate a vertically integrated transaction execution, clearing and settlement business for our futures and options on futures business. If these legislative or regulatory changes are adopted, our strategy and business plan may lead clearing firms to establish, or seek to use, alternative clearing houses for clearing positions established on our exchanges. Even if they are not successful in their efforts, the factors described above may cause clearing firms to limit or stop the use of our products and markets. If any of these events occur, our revenues and profits could be adversely affected. We face intense competition from other companies, including some of our members. If we are not able to successfully compete, our business will not survive. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify, especially in light of the enactment of Dodd-Frank and other reforms of the financial services industry. For example, Dodd-Frank provides for central clearing of “clearable” over-the-counter swaps and requires that swaps that are cleared must be traded on exchanges or swap execution facilities, unless no exchange or swap execution facility makes the swap available for trading. While these new requirements create opportunities for us to expand our over-the-counter business, a number of market participants and other exchanges have developed, and likely will develop in the future, competing platforms and products. We encounter competition in all aspects of our business, including from entities having substantially greater capital and resources and offering a wider range of products and services and some operating under a different and possibly less stringent regulatory regime. We face competition from other futures, securities and securities option exchanges; over-the-counter markets; clearing organizations; consortia formed by our members and large market participants; alternative trade execution facilities; technology firms, including market data distributors and electronic trading system developers; and others. We are beginning to see a wave of consolidation and increased competition. For example, in February 2011, NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Bourse announced that they had entered into a merger agreement. TMX Group and the London Stock Exchange also announced their agreement to merge. Previously in 2010, the Singapore Stock Exchange announced its proposed acquisition of the Australian Stock Exchange. At the end of 2010, there were approximately 60 futures exchanges located in approximately 30 countries. Additionally, there has been an increase in activity among derivatives dealers, banks and other entities to form competing exchanges. For example, in 2007, a consortium of 12 financial institutions formed an exchange, ELX, to enter the futures market, which began trading in July 2009. ELX’s initial product line included electronic trading in U.S. Treasury futures in the two-, five-, and ten-year notes and thirty-year bond contracts in competition with CBOT’s treasury complex and has been expanded to include Eurodollars. ELX has requested that the CFTC compel CBOT to accept certain non-competitive trades as a means to permit two customers, with equal and opposite positions at CBOT, to transfer those positions to ELX. In August 2010, the CFTC issued a letter stating that it did not find that exchange for futures were wash trades and that such transactions were not prohibited by the CFTC core principles or applicable regulations. The CFTC also indicated that it would separately review CBOT’s response 20 Table of Contents under the core principle relating to anti-competitive behavior. At this time, however, the CFTC has not required us to take any action or modify our existing rules. We also face competition from ICE’s energy index, natural gas, credit default swaps, equity index, foreign exchange and other products; from NYSE Euronext and the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation due to their creation of a new clearing house for the clearing of fixed-income derivatives; as well as The Options Clearing Corporation which provides clearing services for commodity futures, commodity options and security futures, including products listed by ELX. New entrants into our industry may further increase competitive pressure on us. We believe we may also face competition from large computer software companies and media and technology companies. The number of businesses providing internet-related financial services is rapidly growing. Other companies have entered into or are forming joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. Others may become competitive with us through acquisitions. Federal law allows institutions that have been major participants on our exchange to trade the same or similar products among themselves without utilizing any exchange or trading system. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. These factors may enable them to develop similar products, to provide lower transaction costs and better execution to their customers and to carry out their business strategies more quickly and efficiently than we can. In addition, our competitors may: • respond more quickly to competitive pressures, including responses based upon their corporate governance structures, which may be more flexible and efficient than our corporate governance structure; • develop products that are preferred by our customers; • develop risk transfer products that compete with our products; • price their products and services more competitively; • develop and expand their network infrastructure and service offerings more efficiently; • utilize better, more user-friendly and more reliable technology; • take greater advantage of acquisitions, alliances and other opportunities; • more effectively market, promote and sell their products and services; • better leverage existing relationships with customers and alliance partners or exploit better recognized brand names to market and sell their services; and • exploit regulatory disparities between traditional, regulated exchanges and alternative markets that benefit from a reduced regulatory burden and lower-cost business model. If our products, markets and services are not competitive, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially harmed. A decline in our fees or any loss of customers could lower our revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. Changes in regulations as a result of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and other restructuring of the regulation of the global financial markets or otherwise, may adversely impact our ability to compete, especially on a global basis. Our trading volume, and consequently our revenues and profits, would be adversely affected if we are unable to retain our current customers or attract new customers. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase our trading volume. To do so, we must maintain and expand our product offerings, our customer base and our trade execution facilities. Our success also depends on our ability to offer competitive prices and services in an increasingly price sensitive business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to expand our product lines, or that we will be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. We bill a substantial portion of our clearing and transaction fees to our clearing firms. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represent charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. One firm represented 13% and 21 Table of Contents one firm represented 12% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue for 2010. Should a clearing firm withdraw, we believe that the customer portion of the firm’s trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange. Additionally, from time to time, certain customers may represent a significant portion of the open interest in our individual product lines or contracts. If we fail to maintain our trading volume; expand our product offerings or execution facilities; or we lose a substantial number of our current customers, or a subset of customers representing a significant percentage of trading volume in a particular product line; or are unable to attract new customers, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. Furthermore, declines in trading volume due to loss of customers may negatively impact market liquidity, which could lead to further loss of trading volume. As a financial services provider, we are subject to significant litigation risk and potential securities law liability. Many aspects of our business involve substantial litigation risks. While we generally are protected by our rules limiting liability for system failures and certain forms of negligence and by statutory limits on private causes of actions in cases where we have not behaved in bad faith, we could be exposed to substantial liability under federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the CFTC. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over terms of a trade, the claim that a system failure or delay caused monetary losses to a customer, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction or that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a transaction. Dissatisfied customers frequently make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. We may become subject to these claims as a result of failures or malfunctions of our systems and services we provide. For example, the bankruptcy examiner in connection with the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy raised the issue of whether our auction and the related transfer of Lehman’s trading positions could be deemed fraudulent. We continue to believe that we acted appropriately and that our actions are immune from liability under the regulations. However, there is no guarantee that we would be successful in defending this potential action or any other action brought in the future. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. In addition, an adverse resolution of any future lawsuit or claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. We may be at greater risk from terrorism than other companies. We may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target of, or an indirect casualty of, attacks by terrorists or terrorist organizations. It is impossible to predict the likelihood or impact of any terrorist attack on the derivatives industry generally or on our business. For example, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center resulted in the closing of NYMEX’s trading and clearing operations for four business days and rendered its backup data and recovery center inoperable. While we have undertaken significant measures to develop business continuity plans and to establish backup sites, in the event of an attack or a threat of an attack, these security measures and contingency plans may be inadequate to prevent significant disruptions in our business, technology or access to the infrastructure necessary to maintain our business. Damage to our facilities due to terrorist attacks may be significantly in excess of any amount of insurance received, or we may not be able to insure against such damage at a reasonable price or at all. The threat of terrorist attacks may also negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS The success of our markets will depend on our ability to complete development of, successfully implement and maintain the electronic trading systems that have the functionality, performance, reliability and speed required by our customers. The future success of our business depends in large part on our ability to create interactive electronic marketplaces in a wide range of derivatives products that have the required functionality, performance, capacity, 22 Table of Contents reliability and speed to attract and retain customers. A significant portion of our overall volume is generated through electronic trading on our CME Globex electronic platform. We must continue to enhance our electronic trading platform to remain competitive. As a result, we will continue to be subject to risks, expenses and uncertainties encountered in the rapidly evolving market for electronic transaction services. These risks include our failure or inability to: • provide reliable and cost-effective services to our customers; • develop, in a timely manner, the required functionality to support electronic trading in our key products in a manner that is competitive with the functionality supported by other electronic markets; • match fees of our competitors that offer only electronic trading facilities; • attract independent software vendors to write front-end software that will effectively access our electronic trading system and automated order routing system; • respond to technological developments or service offerings by competitors; and • generate sufficient revenue to justify the substantial capital investment we have made and will continue to make to enhance our electronic trading platform. If we do not successfully enhance our electronic trading platform, or our current or potential customers do not accept it, our revenues and profits will be adversely affected. Additionally, we rely on our customers’ ability to have the necessary back office functionality to support our new products and our trading and clearing functionality. To the extent our customers are not prepared and/or lack the resources or infrastructure, the success of our new initiatives may be compromised. In addition, if we are unable to develop our electronic trading systems to include other products and markets, or if our electronic trading systems do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed, we may not be able to compete successfully in an environment that is increasingly dominated by electronic trading. If we experience systems failures or capacity constraints, our ability to conduct our operations and execute our business strategy could be materially harmed and we could be subjected to significant costs and liabilities. We are heavily dependent on the capacity, reliability and security of the computer and communications systems and software supporting our operations. We receive and/or process a large portion of our trade orders through electronic means, such as through public and private communications networks. Our systems, or those of our third party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following to occur: • unanticipated disruptions in service to our customers; • slower response times; • delays in our customers’ trade execution; • failed settlement of trades; • incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; • financial losses; • security breaches; • litigation or other customer claims; • loss of customers; and • regulatory sanctions. 23 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures from power or telecommunications failure, acts of God, war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, acts of vandalism or similar occurrences. If any of our systems do not operate properly or are disabled, including as a result of system failure, employee or customer error or misuse of our systems, we could suffer financial loss, liability to customers, regulatory intervention or reputational damage that could affect demand by current and potential users of our market. From time to time, we have experienced system errors and failures that have resulted in some customers being unable to connect to our electronic trading platform, or that resulted in erroneous reporting, such as transactions that were not authorized by any customer or reporting of filled orders as cancelled. For example in 2010, an employee error resulted in errant trades inadvertently being placed into an active market environment which resulted in liability to the Company of approximately $4.7 million. We cannot assure you that if we experience system errors or failures in the future that they will not have a material impact on our business. Any such system failures that cause an interruption in service or decrease our responsiveness could impair our reputation, damage our brand name or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our status as a CFTC registrant generally requires that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volume. Heavy use of our computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause our systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. We constantly monitor system loads and performance, and regularly implement system upgrades to handle estimated increases in trading volume. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volume and order messaging traffic will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volume and order messaging traffic without failure or degradation of performance. Increased CME Globex trading volume and order messaging traffic may result in connectivity problems or erroneous reports that may affect users of the platform. System failure or degradation could lead our customers to file formal complaints with industry regulatory organizations, to file lawsuits against us or to cease doing business with us, or could lead the CFTC or other regulators to initiate inquiries or proceedings for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We will need to continue to upgrade, expand and increase the capacity of our systems as our business grows and we execute our business strategy. Generally, our goal is to design our systems to handle at least two times our peak historical transactions in our highest volume products. As volumes of transactions grow, the ability of our systems to meet this goal on an ongoing basis depends on our ability to increase our system capacity on a timely basis while maintaining system reliability. Although many of our systems are designed to accommodate additional volume and products and services without redesign or replacement, we will need to continue to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate the increases in volume of transactions and order transaction traffic and to provide processing services to third parties. If we cannot increase the capacity and capabilities of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions and to execute our business strategy, our ability to maintain or expand our businesses would be adversely affected. Our networks and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, which could result in wrongful use of our information or cause interruptions in our operations that cause us to lose customers and trading volume and result in significant liabilities. We could also be required to incur significant expense to protect our systems. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third party service providers and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems, including attacks from cybercriminals. For example, in 2010, a virus impacted email systems around the world, including our system. Additionally, there has been an increase in information security threats, including malware targeted at specific entities. While we have not been a specific target to date, our role in the global marketplace could place us at greater risk. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Any of these events could cause us to lose customers or trading volume. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by breaches. Although we intend to continue to implement security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could cause us to lose customers, experience lower trading volume and incur significant liabilities. 24 Table of Contents We, as well as many of our customers, depend on third party suppliers and service providers for a number of services that are important. An interruption or cessation of an important supply or service by any third party could have a material adverse effect on our business, including revenues derived from our customers’ trading activity. We depend on a number of suppliers, such as banking, clearing and settlement organizations, telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, and software and hardware vendors for elements of our trading, clearing and other systems, as well as communications and networking equipment, computer hardware and software and related support and maintenance. Many of our customers rely on third parties, such as independent software vendors, to provide them with front-end systems to access our CME Globex platform and other back office systems for their trade processing and risk management needs. While these service providers have undertaken to keep current with our enhancements and changes to our interfaces and functionality, we cannot guarantee that they will continue to make the necessary monetary and time investments to keep up with our changes. To the extent any of our service providers or the organizations that provide services to our customers in connection with their trading activities cease to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fail to adequately expand their services to meet our needs and the needs of our customers, we could experience decreased trading volume, lower revenues and higher costs. Our clearing house operations expose us to substantial credit risk of third parties and the level of soundness of our clearing firms could adversely affect us. Our clearing house operations expose us to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely guarantee transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional customers. As a result of the financial crisis that began in 2008, many financial institutions required additional capital infusions, merged with larger and stronger institutions, became bank holding companies that are regulated by the Federal Reserve Bank and, in some cases, failed. For example, during 2008, The Bear Stearns Companies, Inc., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and American International Group, Inc., all of which were parent companies of clearing firms of our exchange, experienced significant financial writedowns and in some cases failed. Although none of these cases resulted in a default of a clearing firm, additional companies, including our clearing firms, may continue to encounter economic difficulties during this period of economic uncertainty. As part of our overall growth initiatives, we have expanded our clearing services to the over-the-counter market in addition to standard futures and options on futures products, including through CME ClearPort and our credit default and interest rate swap clearing initiatives. The process for deriving margins and financial safeguards for over-the-counter products is different and, in part, seeks to assess and capture different risks than our historical practices applied to our futures and options on futures products. Although we believe that we have carefully analyzed the process for setting margins and our financial safeguards for over-the-counter products, there is no guarantee that our procedures will adequately protect market participants from the unique risks of these products. We expect to begin operation of CME Clearing Europe during the first half of 2011. We have limited experience operating a clearing house outside of the United States. A substantial part of our working capital may be at risk if a clearing firm defaults on its obligations to the clearing house and its margin and security deposits are insufficient to meet its obligations. Although we have policies and procedures to help ensure that our clearing firms can satisfy their obligations, these policies and procedures may not succeed in detecting problems or preventing defaults. We also have in place various measures intended to enable us to cure any default and maintain liquidity. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to protect market participants from a default or that we will not be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default. 25 Table of Contents The required capital and posted collateral of our clearing firms may lose value given the volatility of the market. To become a clearing member, a firm must meet certain minimum capital requirements and must deposit a certain amount of funds to meet performance bond and guaranty fund requirements with our clearing house as collateral for their trading activity. We accept a variety of collateral to satisfy these requirements, including cash, regulated money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. Government Agency securities, letters of credit, gold, equities and foreign sovereign debt. Given the level of market volatility, there is no guarantee that these investments will continue to maintain their value. To the extent a clearing firm was not in compliance with these requirements, it would be required to acquire additional funds, decrease its proprietary trading activity and/or transfer customer accounts to another clearing firm. These actions could result in a decrease in trading activity in our products. Our market data revenues may be reduced or eliminated by decreased demand, overall economic conditions or the growth of electronic trading and electronic order entry systems. If we are unable to offset that reduction through terminal usage fees or transaction fees, we will experience a reduction in revenues. We sell our market data to individuals and organizations that use our markets or monitor general economic conditions. Revenues from our market data and information services totaled $395.1 million, representing 13% of our total revenues, and $331.1 million, representing 13% of our total revenues, during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A decrease in overall trading volume may also lead to a decreased demand for our market data from the market data vendors. For example, in both 2010 and 2009 we experienced a decrease in the average number of market data devices due to the economic crisis, continued high unemployment levels in the financial services sector and aggressive cost cutting initiatives at customer firms. Additionally, electronic trading systems do not usually impose separate exchange fees for supplying market data to trading terminals. If we do not separately charge for market data supplied to trading terminals, and trading terminals with access to our markets become widely available, we could lose market data fees from those who have access to trading terminals. We will experience a reduction in our revenues if we are unable to recover that lost market data revenue through terminal usage fees or transaction fees. A key element of our strategy is to partner with other leading exchanges to provide them with transaction processing services. Our failure to derive value from our existing relationships or to identify future opportunities to provide these services may have a negative impact on our ability to grow our business. Providing third-party transaction processing services is a key element of our strategy. Pursuant to transaction-processing agreements, we previously provided these services to NYMEX and to CBOT. Prior to our acquisition of these companies, we derived a significant amount of revenues from these service agreements. We have entered into other transaction-processing arrangements with BM&FBOVESPA, Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, the Korea Exchange, the Green Exchange, the Dubai Mercantile Exchange and Bursa Malaysia Derivatives. We cannot assure you that such arrangements will be as profitable as our previous arrangements with NYMEX and CBOT or that we will enter into additional agreements to provide processing services in the future. Our failure to capitalize on our existing arrangements and to identify future opportunities may have a negative impact on our ability to generate additional revenues and grow our business. We may have difficulty executing our growth strategy and maintaining our growth effectively. We continue to focus on strategic initiatives to grow our business, including our efforts to serve the over-the-counter market as discussed in the following risk factor and to distribute our products and services on a global basis. There is no guarantee that our efforts will be successful. Continued growth will require additional investment in personnel, facilities, information technology infrastructure and financial and management systems and controls and may place a significant strain on our management and resources. For example, if we encounter limited resources, we may be required to increase our expenses to obtain the necessary resources, defer existing initiatives or not pursue certain opportunities. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support our growth organically or, as described below, through acquisitions, investments or 26 Table of Contents other strategic alliances. Unless our growth results in an increase in our revenues that is proportionate to the increase in our costs associated with our growth, our future profitability could be adversely affected, and we may have to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements as a result of our growth. There is no guarantee that our over-the-counter initiatives will be successful. Our goal is to provide a comprehensive multi-asset class clearing solution to the market for maximum operational ease and the capital efficiency that comes with connecting to a single clearing house. We offer clearing services for cleared over-the-counter derivatives, including credit default swaps and interest rate swaps. Our strategy also includes extending our over-the-counter services into other assets classes, as well as enhancing our CME ClearPort functionality to support additional products. While we believe Dodd-Frank creates new opportunities for us to expand our over-the-counter offerings, the current regulatory environment for trading and clearing these products is uncertain. We cannot be certain that we will be able to operate profitably in the event that future legislation or regulation adversely affects the trading of over-the-counter products or reduces the demand for our offerings. For example, provisions within Dodd-Frank include changes to the CFTC’s core principles, specifically core principal 9, which could require us to make modifications to the manner in which certain of our contracts trade and/or require that such products be de-listed as futures and re-listed as swaps. In addition, a number of market participants and exchanges have developed competing platforms and products, including ICE’s offering for credit default swaps. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete effectively or that our initiatives will be successful. We intend to continue to explore acquisitions, investments and other strategic alliances. We may not be successful in identifying opportunities or in integrating the acquired businesses. Any such transaction may not produce the results we anticipate which could adversely affect our business and our stock price. We intend to continue to explore and pursue acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. We may make acquisitions or investments or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures and other alliances. The market for such transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of the increasing consolidation in our industry, including the recently announced transactions between NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Bourse and TMX Group and the London Stock Exchange. As a result, we may be unable to identify strategic opportunities or we may be unable to negotiate or finance future transactions on terms favorable to us. To the extent the trend of consolidation in our industry continues, we may encounter increased difficulties in identifying growth opportunities. We may finance future transactions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. The issuance of additional equity in connection with any future transaction could be substantially dilutive to our existing shareholders. The issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. The process of integration may also produce unforeseen regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert the attention of management from the ongoing operation of our business. To the extent we enter into joint ventures and alliances, we may experience difficulties in the development and expansion of the business of any newly formed ventures, in the exercise of influence over the activities of any ventures in which we do not have a controlling interest as well as encounter potential conflicts with our joint venture or alliance partners. We may not realize the anticipated growth and other benefits from strategic growth initiatives we have made or will make in the future which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. We may also be required to take an impairment charge in our financial statements relating to our acquisitions and/or investments which could negatively impact our stock price. Expansion of our operations internationally involves special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could adversely affect our financial results. We plan to continue to expand our operations internationally, including the launch of CME Clearing Europe, directly placing order entry terminals with customers outside the United States and by relying on distribution systems established by our current and future strategic alliance partners. We face certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the regulated derivatives exchange business. These risks include: • restrictions on the use of trading terminals or the contracts that may be traded; 27 Table of Contents • becoming subject to extensive regulations and oversight, tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • general economic and political conditions in the countries from which our markets are accessed, which may have an adverse effect on our volume from those countries; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, as a result of our expanding global operations, we are subject to the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities, including the FSA in connection with CME Clearing Europe and our marketing efforts in Europe. These may include laws, rules and regulations relating to any aspect of the derivatives business. To date, we have had limited experience in marketing and operating our products and services internationally. We cannot assure you that we will be able to succeed in marketing our products and services in international markets. We may also experience difficulty in managing our international operations because of, among other things, competitive conditions overseas, management of foreign exchange risk, established domestic markets, language and cultural differences and economic or political instability. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the success of our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. Generally, the CFTC has broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses or suspend or revoke our designation as a contract market or the registration of any of our officers or employees who violate applicable laws or regulations. Our ability to comply with applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extensive examination and surveillance activity. In the case of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to investigations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties or civil lawsuits, including by customers, for damages, which can be significant. Any of these outcomes would adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. In extreme cases, these outcomes could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks may not be fully effective. Some of our risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, financial, legal, regulatory and strategic risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. We cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. We could be harmed by misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Misconduct by our employees and agents, including employees of GFX, our wholly-owned subsidiary that engages primarily in proprietary trading in foreign exchange futures to generate liquidity, could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of customers or improper use or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our employees and agents, including our GFX employees, also may commit errors that could subject us to financial claims for negligence, as well as regulatory actions. For example in 2010, an employee error resulted in errant trades inadvertently being placed into an active market environment which resulted in liability to the Company of approximately $4.7 million. 28 Table of Contents We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which may materially harm our business. We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and other parts of the world. We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications. Our patents cover match engine, trader user interface, trading floor support, market data, general technology and clearing house functionalities. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, copyright, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods. Notwithstanding the precautions we take to protect our intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. In addition, in the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources, either of which could adversely affect our business. Any infringement by us on patent rights of others could result in litigation and adversely affect our ability to continue to provide, or increase the cost of providing, our products and electronic execution services. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. Our competitors as well as other companies and individuals may obtain, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. These claims of infringement are not uncommon in our industry. In general, if one or more of our products or services were to infringe on patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing on the patent claims. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we were unable to obtain such licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products or services to avoid infringement, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. RISKS RELATING TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR CLASS A COMMON STOCK Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and operations and prevent us from fulfilling our debt service obligations. We may still be able to incur more debt, intensifying these risks. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.5 billion of total indebtedness and we had excess borrowing capacity for general corporate purposes under our existing facilities of approximately $0.9 billion. Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, our indebtedness may: • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue acquisitions or investments, to pay dividends and for general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to our business and industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage against any less leveraged competitors; and • subject us to interest rate exposure for our variable interest rate debt, to the extent not hedged. 29 Table of Contents The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. In addition, the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness do not significantly limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks described above to the extent that we incur additional debt. Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. Our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us. Their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the financial markets over the last few years, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. Our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. Our investment in BM&FBOVESPA subjects us to investment and currency risk. We own an interest in BM&FBOVESPA representing approximately 5% of its outstanding shares which had a fair value of $798.8 million as of December 31, 2010. As an exchange, its ability to maintain or expand its trading volume and operate its business is subject to the same types of risks to which we are subject. Additionally, its stock is valued in Brazilian real, which subjects us to currency risk. There is no guarantee that our investment in BM&FBOVESPA will be profitable. Under the terms of the transaction, we may not sell our shares in BM&FBOVESPA until February 2012. Any impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets or investments may result in material, non-cash writedowns and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and shareholders’ equity. In connection with our acquisitions and investments, including our mergers with CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings, we have recorded goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. We assess goodwill and intangible assets for impairment by applying a fair value test looking at historical performance, capital requirements and projected cash flows on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. Over the past three years, we have recorded impairment charges in connection with our investments in BM&FBOVESPA, IMAREX ASA, the Dubai Mercantile Exchange, FXMarketSpace and OneChicago and our acquisitions of Swapstream and CMA. We may continue to experience future events that result in impairments. The risk of impairment losses may increase to the extent our market capitalization and earnings decline. An impairment of the value of our existing goodwill and intangible assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results and could have an adverse impact on our ability to satisfy the financial ratios or other covenants under our existing or future debt agreements. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate due to seasonality. As a result, you will not be able to rely on our operating results in any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance. Generally, we have historically experienced relatively higher trading volume during the first and second quarters and sequentially lower trading volume in the third and fourth quarters. As a result of this seasonality, you will not be able to rely on our operating results in any particular period as an indication of our future performance. If we fail to meet securities analysts’ expectations regarding our operating results, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Our average rate per contract is subject to fluctuation due to a number of factors. As a result, you will not be able to rely on our average rate per contract in any particular period as an indication of our future average rate per contract. Our average rate per contract, which impacts our operating results, is subject to fluctuation due to shifts in the mix of products traded, the trading venue and the mix of customers (whether the customer receives member or 30 Table of Contents non-member fees or participates in one of our various incentive programs) and the impact of our tiered pricing structure. For example, we earn a higher rate per contract for trades executed electronically than for trades executed on the trading floor. In addition, our members and participants in our various incentive programs generally are charged lower fees than our non-member customers. Variation in each of these factors is difficult to predict and will have an impact on our average rate per contract in the particular period. Because of this fluctuation, you may not be able to rely on our average rate per contract in any particular period as an indication of our future average rate per contract. If we fail to meet securities analysts’ expectations regarding our operating results, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially. Our cost structure is largely fixed. If our revenues decline and we are unable to reduce our costs, our profitability will be adversely affected. Our cost structure is largely fixed. We base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. If demand for our products and services and our resulting revenues decline, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. In that event, our profitability will be adversely affected. Twenty of our board members own trading rights or are officers or directors of firms who own trading rights on our exchanges. As members, these individuals may have interests that differ from or conflict with those of shareholders who are not also members. Our dependence on the trading and clearing activities of our members, combined with their rights to elect directors, may enable them to exert substantial influence over the operation of our business. Twenty of our directors own or are officers or directors of firms who own trading rights on our exchange. We are dependent on the revenues from the trading and clearing activities of our members. In 2010, 79% of our trading volume was derived from our members. This dependence may give them substantial influence over how we operate our business. Many of our members and clearing firms derive a substantial portion of their income from their trading or clearing activities on or through our exchanges. In addition, trading rights on our exchanges have substantial independent value. The amount of income that members derive from their trading, brokering and clearing activities and the value of their trading rights are, in part, dependent on the fees they are charged to trade, broker, clear and access our markets and the rules and structure of our markets. As a result, holders of our Class A common stock may not have the same economic interests as our members. In addition, our members may have differing interests among themselves depending on the roles they serve in our markets, their method of trading and the products they trade. Consequently, members may advocate that we enhance and protect their clearing and trading opportunities and the value of their trading privileges over their investment in our Class A common stock, if any. The rights of our members, including the board representation rights of the members of our CME exchange to elect six directors and the rights described in the immediately following risk factor, could be used to influence how our business is changed or developed, including how we address competition and how we seek to grow our volume and revenue and enhance shareholder value. Our members have been granted special rights, which protect their trading privileges, require that we maintain open outcry trading until volumes are not significant and, in the case of our Class B shareholders and CBOT members, provide them with special board representation. Under the terms of the organizational documents of our exchanges, our members have certain rights that relate primarily to trading right protections, certain trading fee protections and certain membership benefit protections. Additionally, our Class B shareholders, who are members of our CME exchange, are also entitled to elect six directors to our board; even if their Class A share ownership interest is very small or non-existent. We are also required to include at least 10 CBOT directors (as defined in our bylaws) on our board until our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and to submit changes to the rules and regulations of the CBOT exchange to the CBOT 31 Table of Contents directors in advance for their review. In the event the CBOT directors determine in their sole discretion that a proposed rule change will materially impair the business of CBOT or the business opportunities of the holders of the CBOT memberships, such change must be submitted to a committee comprised of three CBOT directors and two CME directors (as defined in our bylaws). In connection with these rights, our ability to take certain actions that we may deem to be in the best interests of the company and its shareholders, including actions relating to the operation of our open outcry trading facilities and certain pricing decisions, may be limited by the rights of our members. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 