Risk Factors” in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Diagnostic & Biopharmaceutical Products We develop, manufacture and sell biological products essential for the development, manufacture and use of diagnostic tests and the discovery, development and production of pharmaceuticals and other commercial products. Customers depend on us for a reliable supply of products with exacting specifications that meet stringent FDA and other regulatory standards. Our products business has two primary segments: controls and panels for clinical laboratories, blood banks and IVD manufacturers; and reagents and bioprocessing products for use in the discovery, development and manufacturing processes for drugs, vaccines and diagnostic tests. Controls and Panels Our diagnostic control and panel products are sold to hospital laboratories, independent clinical laboratories, public health laboratories, blood banks, IVD manufacturers and government regulatory and research agencies. Hospital, clinical and public health labs use our quality control products to ensure the accuracy of tests used to detect markers of disease or monitor infection rates. Our control and panel products make it possible for clinical labs testing for infectious diseases to evaluate tests and to independently monitor the quality and precision of test results. For blood banks and transplant centers, use of quality control products helps to ensure blood and organ safety. SeraCare controls and panels have led the market for quality control and evaluation of infectious disease test methods for over a decade and we are expanding this product line into the rapidly growing market for controls and panels for genetic and cancer marker tests. Our control and panel products are also used for employee training and competency assessment programs. Laboratory testing for viruses that cause disease requires highly complex techniques that are frequently revised and improved. Laboratory regulations and good practice require that newly hired technicians must undergo training on test methods and existing personnel must undergo annual competency assessments on each laboratory test they perform. The Clinical Laboratories Improvement Act of 1988 (“CLIA”), for example, requires that laboratories maintain records of their employee training and competency assessment activities. Controls (also called quality controls) are samples designed to be similar to patient samples and are provided to laboratories so that a known sample can be tested each time a diagnostic test is run. Control results are monitored over time to track test results and ensure their consistent performance. The use of controls with clinical lab tests is mandated by regulatory agencies in much of the developed world. Panels are also designed to be similar to patient samples. Panels include a data sheet and a set of samples that are related in some way. For example, they may all be positive for the same marker of HCV or may all be from the same donor at different points in time in the progression of their infection. These panels have high and lasting value because the samples they contain are highly characterized and can be used to establish a consistent reference point. The same panel can be purchased repeatedly and used to build a record of improving test sensitivity and specificity over time as new methods are developed. IVD manufacturers, regulatory agencies and researchers use our panels to develop and evaluate new tests and look for new markers of disease. We currently offer over 100 control and panel products for infectious diseases including HIV, hepatitis A, HBV, HCV, WNV, Chagas and HPV, that are widely used around the world. Most of our control products are sold under the ACCURUN brand name and our panel products are called seroconversion and performance panels. 6 Table of Contents Reagents and Bioprocessing Products Our reagents and bioprocessing products are used by diagnostic, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research organizations in industry and academia. These products make it possible for our customers to optimize consistency in the discovery, development and manufacturing of diagnostic tests, therapeutics and vaccines. SeraCare’s products are integral components of product development from research through validated production processes filed with regulatory agencies in the U.S. and around the world. Products in this segment include: diagnostic intermediates; cell culture additives and media; therapeutic grade albumin; and purified viable human cells. SeraCare’s diagnostic intermediates are plasma-derived products used by manufacturers of diagnostic test kits in every stage of product life cycle, including research and development, pilot production, clinical trials, regulatory submission, full production and commercialization. These products include bovine serum albumin, human disease state plasma, normal human serum or plasma and BaseMatrix, SeraCon or MatriBase, which are clear, stable and economical substitutes for normal human plasma or serum. We also provide bovine serum albumin which can function as a carrier or stabilizer for other proteins in diagnostic test components. Other SeraCare human and animal sera products are used in clinical or veterinary laboratory tests as positive and negative controls. Critical raw materials such as diluents, plasma and blood or blood components from individuals with any of a number of specific diseases are a specialty of our diagnostic intermediates group. Our expertise in processing blood products yields consistent results and allows our manufacturing customers to concentrate on test method development and production and distribution of test kits. Cell culture products are the media and media supplements that maintain viability of specific cells. Our cell culture products include sera, cell and tissue culture media and other reagents that are used for both research activities and pharmaceutical manufacturing processes. Our biological test components and purified human cells include materials used in the development and evaluation of biologics products, the characterization of chemical structures, the development of formulations for long-term solution stability and the validation of purification processes. Our cell culture products support the growth of cells used in the manufacture of large molecule therapeutics, including monoclonal antibodies and other proteins grown in bacteria, yeast or mammalian cells. BioServices Biobanking SeraCare manages and stores more than 17 million biological samples at our state-of-the-art facilities in Maryland pursuant to multi-year contracts with government agencies and private sector customers, who pay for these services on either a cost-plus, fixed fee, or time and materials basis. We also provide research and clinical trial support services including assisting with collecting, cataloging, processing, transporting, cryopreservation, storing and tracking of samples collected during research studies and clinical trials. In addition, we provide technical support and training to collaborators and investigators on issues related to specimen processing and handling. Contract Research SeraCare provides a broad range of research support services to government and private sector clients, including method validation and optimization, preparation of information for FDA submissions and test kit production. Our virology services group performs viral cultivations, infectivity testing, in vitro characterization of anti-HIV drugs. Our immunology group provides services for the assessment of cell-mediated immunity, including enzyme-linked immunospot (“ELISpot”), apoptosis and complement fixation assays, and administers proficiency programs for network laboratories that perform similar types of assays. Our molecular biology group provides services in DNA and RNA isolations from blood and other clinical specimens, polymerase chain reaction amplifications, DNA cloning, gene mapping, sequencing, genotyping and linkage analysis. Our biochemistry group provides protein purification services and coagulation testing services. These services are usually conducted under contracts which range from a few months to multi-year commitments and are structured on a cost-plus, time and materials or fixed fee basis. 7 Table of Contents Product Development Our research scientists work closely with sales, marketing, manufacturing, quality, regulatory and finance personnel to identify and prioritize the development of new products and services specifically geared to customer needs and consistent with our business priorities. Product launch involves careful coordination among product development, manufacturing, quality assurance, and sales and marketing departments to ensure the final product is produced in accordance with specifications and meets customer requirements. We are currently developing new products and services in the following areas: molecular controls for additional infectious agents and for genetic and oncology markers; additional cellular products, including stem cell isolation and preservation; and extensions to our existing product lines and service capabilities. Our sourcing of plasma raw materials for use in these products is supplemented by our work in cell, viral and bacterial culture, Epstein Barr Virus transformations to provide reproducible source of genetic material, and synthetic and recombinant approaches to generate novel genetic materials that mimic natural products but can be produced with greater consistency, scalability and improved safety. Suppliers We buy materials for our products from many suppliers. While there are some materials that we obtain from a single supplier, we are not dependent on any one supplier or group of suppliers for our business as a whole. Raw materials are generally available from a number of suppliers. Our normal contract terms are FOB SeraCare’s dock with payment terms of 30 – 45 days. Our agreement with Instituto Grifols S.A. for the supply of human serum albumin lapsed during fiscal 2006 and was not renewed. We signed a contract in July 2007 with Octapharma USA, Inc. for the supply of human serum albumin. Sales and Distribution We sell most of our products and services through our direct sales force, although we use distributors in approximately 30 countries to market and sell our products in international markets. These independent distributors may also market products of other companies, including some products that are competitive with our products. As of September 30, 2007, we employed 35 people worldwide in our sales, customer service and marketing organizations. Our sales strategy is to employ technical sales representatives who have an extensive background in the life sciences industry. A thorough knowledge of biological techniques and an understanding of the research process allow our sales representatives to become advisors, acting in a consultative role with customers. Our use of skilled technical sales representatives also enables us to identify evolving market needs and new technologies that we can license and develop into new products. Customers Customers of our diagnostic control and panel products include hospital laboratories, independent clinical laboratories, public health laboratories, blood banks, IVD manufacturers and regulatory agencies that oversee the manufacture and use of such test kits. Customers of our reagents and bioprocessing products include diagnostic, pharmaceutical and biotechnology product developers and manufacturers as well as research laboratories affiliated with government, academia and private foundations. Customers of our services include government and academic institutions, IVD manufacturers and pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. For the year ended September 30, 2007, our top five customers accounted for 44% of our revenue from continuing operations. The largest two customers, National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) and Roche Molecular Systems accounted for 18% and 10% of revenue, respectively, in that period. No other customer individually accounted for more than 7% of revenue in that period. Discontinued Operations On March 29, 2007, SeraCare sold some assets as well as the assumption of some limited liabilities of its Genomics Collaborative division to BioServe Biotechnologies Limited (“BioServe”). The Genomics 8 Table of Contents Collaborative division was located in Cambridge, Massachusetts and involved the sale of human clinical specimens and their accompanying medical information for use in drug discovery. The consideration for this sale consisted of $2,000,000 cash and a 7.5% royalty on BioServe’s net sales related to the business of the Genomics Collaborative division for five years through March 29, 2012. Domestic and Foreign Sales One of the Company’s principal marketing strategies has been to target international markets, including Europe, Asia, Canada and other parts of the world. Most of the Company’s international order processing, invoicing, collection and customer service functions are handled directly from the Company’s headquarters in Massachusetts. SeraCare believes demand for the Company’s products in international markets is primarily driven by increased use of quality control products and the development, validation and use of new diagnostic tests. In fiscal 2007, 22% of SeraCare’s revenue from continuing operations, or $10.2 million, was attributable to international sales, of which 81% was from sales to Europe, 10% was from sales to Asia, and 6% was from sales to Canada. In fiscal 2006 and 2005, 30% and 32%, respectively, of SeraCare’s revenue were attributable to international sales. The 8% decrease in international sales from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2007 is a result of the Company’s decision to no longer sell certain products to a single large customer in Asia due to unacceptable profit margins on the business. During the last three years, less than 5% of our assets have been located outside of the United States. Licensing Arrangements SeraCare has three non-exclusive licensing agreements with the NIH. These agreements provide SeraCare with access to certain NIH cell lines that are used in the manufacture of certain bulk, control or panel products. SeraCare has royalty obligations under each of these agreements. The Company owed approximately $0.1 million in total to the NIH under the three agreements on net sales generated during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. SeraCare also has a non-exclusive licensing agreement with Millipore Corporation (“Millipore”) under which Millipore pays for use of hybridoma cell lines that are proprietary to SeraCare. The cell lines generate monoclonal antibodies used in Millipore’s products. Under the agreement, Millipore is obligated to pay SeraCare 30% of net sales generated by related products. The Company received approximately $0.1 million from Millipore under this agreement during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007. Intellectual Property We rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to preserve our competitive position. We rely primarily on know-how in many of our manufacturing processes and techniques not generally known to other life sciences companies for developing and maintaining our market position. We also maintain sophisticated data systems to track our clinical collection sites and clinical patient data. We rely on trade secret, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect our intellectual property rights pertaining to our products, technology, clinical collection facilities and clinical research data. We have trademarks registered in the United States and a number of other countries for use in connection with our products and business. We believe that many of our trademarks are generally recognized in our industry. Such trademarks include ACCURUN, BBI and SeraCare. Regulatory Environment Regulation of Health Care Industry The health care industry is highly regulated, and state and federal health care laws and regulations are applicable to certain aspects of our business and that of our customers. For example, there are federal and state health care laws and regulations that apply to the operation of clinical laboratories, the provision of 9 Table of Contents health care services by providers using our products and services, business relationships between health care providers and suppliers, the privacy and security of health information and the conduct of clinical research. Regulation of Products The design and manufacturing of many of our products is regulated by numerous third parties, including the FDA, foreign governments, independent standards auditors and our customers. In the United States, IVD and biological products have long been subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling, import, export and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the FDA through its Center for Devices and Radiological Health and its Center for Biological Evaluation and Research continues to result in increases in the amounts of testing and documentation for FDA clearance of current and new IVD and biologic products. The FDA can ban certain IVD and biological products; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded IVD and biological products; order repair, replacement or refund of these products; and require notification of health professionals and others with regard to IVD and biological products that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also enjoin and restrain certain violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Safe Medical Device Act or the Public Health Service Act pertaining to IVD and biological products or initiate action for criminal prosecution of such violations. SeraCare products sold in Europe for blood and diagnostic testing are CE Marked. CE Marking is a manufacturer’s declaration that the product is in compliance with the essential health and safety requirements set out in European Directives. CE Marking allows the product to be legally placed on the market in the participating country and ensures a product’s free movement within the European Union. Regulation of Laboratory Operations The Company operates a clinical laboratory at its Gaithersburg, Maryland facility. Clinical laboratories that perform laboratory testing (except for research purposes only) on human subjects are subject to regulation under CLIA. CLIA regulates clinical laboratories by requiring that the laboratory be certified by the federal government, licensed by the state and comply with various operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical laboratory test results are accurate, reliable and timely. State law and regulations also apply to the operation of clinical laboratories. Although the Company does not engage in significant laboratory testing for purposes other than research, it maintains a CLIA certification at the Gaithersburg, Maryland facility and its laboratories are subject to regulation under state law. Environmental SeraCare is subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental protection measures. SeraCare believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. SeraCare’s compliance with these regulations did not have during the past year and is not expected to have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) As with most operating companies, our manufacturing facilities must comply with both federal and state OSHA regulations. We maintain all required records. OSHA does inspect operating locations as it deems appropriate and generally does so without advance notice. State Governments Most states in which we operate have regulations that parallel federal regulations. Most states conduct periodic unannounced inspections and require licensing under such state’s procedures. 10 Table of Contents Competitors The segments of the life sciences industry in which we compete are highly fragmented. Within our product and service areas, we face varying levels of competition. In certain instances, we compete with large, well-capitalized life science companies, which have significant financial, operational, sales and marketing, and research and development resources. In other instances, our competition comes from small, independent companies that focus on particular niches within our segments. We compete primarily on quality, breadth of product line and service. Diagnostic & Biopharmaceutical Products: Our primary competitors in the controls and panels business include Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., AcroMetrix and Zeptometrix Corporation. Within the reagents and bioprocessing products business, we compete with other companies, such as Millipore, Invitrogen Corporation, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., Baxter Healthcare Corporation and Grifols S.A., that supply biologics to support the development and manufacture of diagnostic assays, biopharmaceutical products and vaccines, as well as with small private companies, which source human disease-state plasma. BioServices: In our biobanking division, we compete with companies that maintain biorepositories for commercial organizations, government and academic institutions as well as companies, government agencies and academic institutions that internally maintain their own repository for biological materials. Employees As of September 30, 2007, we employed 204 full-time and eight part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by labor unions and we have not entered into any collective bargaining agreements. Available Information Our principal executive offices are located at 37 Birch Street, Milford, Massachusetts 01757 and our telephone number is (508) 244-6400. Our website address is www.seracare.com. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and does not form any part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have included our website address as a factual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. Our trademarks include ACCURUN, BBI and SeraCare. Other service marks, trademarks and tradenames appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this annual report. Our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed if any of these risks materialize. The trading price of our common stock may also decline due to any of these risks. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate in future periods, and the Company may fail to meet investor expectations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock 11 Table of Contents could decline significantly. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results include the following: • changes in demand for the Company’s products and services, and the ability to attain the required resources to satisfy customer demand on a cost-effective basis or even to attain the required resources at all; • ability to develop, introduce, market and gain market acceptance of new products or services in a timely manner; • ability to manage inventories, accounts receivable and cash flows; and • ability to control costs. The amount of expenses incurred depends, in part, on expectation regarding future revenue. In addition, since many expenses are fixed in the short term, we cannot significantly reduce expenses if there is a decline in revenue to avoid losses. We depend on contracts with government agencies, which if terminated or reduced, would have a material adverse effect on our business. A large percentage of our revenue is derived from sales to government agencies. Such government agencies may be subject to budget cuts, budgetary constraints or a reduction or discontinuation of funding. A significant reduction in funds available for government agencies to purchase professional services and related products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a substantial amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Although we provide products and services to many customers, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from a few of our larger customers. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, our top five customers accounted for 44% of our revenue from continuing operations. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our products and services that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products in the end-user marketplace. Our customer concentration exposes us to the risk of changes in the business condition of any of our major customers and to the risk that the loss of a major customer would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our relationship with these customers is subject to change. An interruption in the supply of diagnostic and therapeutic products at competitive prices that we purchase from third parties could cause a decline in our revenue. We purchase certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in the manufacturing of our products, and the loss of, or disruption to, any plant or supplier could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell many of our products from third parties. We may experience an interruption of supply if a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our time, quantity and quality requirements. There are relatively few alternative suppliers for some of these raw materials and components. Any or all of these suppliers could discontinue manufacturing or supplying these products and components, experience interruptions in their operations or raise their prices. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in production delays and increased costs and limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify alternative sources of supply, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs, increased prices for our products and lost product revenue. In addition, we compete with large companies as well as smaller, independent plasma collection centers and brokers of plasma products for plasma source material and processing. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to realize our growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities in the future or if we cannot integrate acquired businesses or technologies into our business. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to grow our business through acquisitions of technologies or companies. We may not identify or complete complementary acquisitions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all. In addition, we compete with other companies, including large, well-funded competitors, to acquire suitable targets, and may not be able to acquire certain targets that we seek. There can be no assurance that we will be able to execute this component of our growth strategy, which may harm our business and hinder our future growth. To achieve desired growth rates as we become larger, we may seek larger and/or public companies as potential acquisition candidates. The acquisition of a public company may involve additional risks, including the potential for lack of recourse against public shareholders for undisclosed material liabilities of the acquired business. In addition, if we were to proceed with one or more significant future acquisitions in which the consideration consisted of cash, a substantial portion of our available cash resources could be used. Furthermore, for any such acquisition, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including expenses associated with a change of control. If an acquisition was not completed for any reason, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the anticipated benefits of the pending acquisition, including anticipated net reductions in costs and expenses and our stock price may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed. Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of these acquisitions, we cannot predict whether and to what extent such benefits will be achieved. Working through integration issues is complex, time-consuming and expensive and could significantly disrupt our business. There are significant challenges to integrating the acquired operations into our business, including: • successfully managing and assimilating the operations, facilities and technology of the acquired businesses; • maintaining and increasing the customer base for the acquired products; • demonstrating to customers and suppliers that the acquisitions will not result in adverse changes in service standards or business focus; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; • maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, integrating cultures and management structures and accurately forecasting employee benefit costs; • consolidating our management information, inventory, accounting and other systems; • our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; • the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition; • increased pressure on our staff and on our operating systems; and • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business. Our failure to successfully integrate and operate the acquired businesses, and to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, could adversely impact our operating performance and financial results. Our success depends in large part upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees, including certain sales, consulting and technical personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate the qualified personnel that will be essential to our current plans and future development. The competition for such personnel is substantial and we cannot assure you that we will successfully retain our key employees or attract and retain any required 13 Table of Contents additional personnel. The loss of the services of any significant employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past, employees have resigned from the Company and joined competitors or formed competing companies. The loss of such personnel and the resulting loss of existing or potential clients to any such competitor has had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face additional expenses and disruption due to the relocation and eventual sale of our manufacturing facility in West Bridgewater, Massachusetts. In order to accommodate growth in our operations, we entered into a lease for a 60,000 square foot three-building facility in Milford, Massachusetts that will serve as our new corporate headquarters and main manufacturing plant. We began to move into this facility in January 2008. As a result of the move, we have incurred and will incur additional expenses and may encounter disruption of operations related to the move, all of which could delay shipment of products, reduce our sales volume and increase our working capital requirements. In addition, it may take months and possibly a year or longer to sell the West Bridgewater facility at a suitable price. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell the property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of the property. If we are unable to sell the property when we determine to do so, it could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Lack of early success with our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers can shut us out of future business with those customers. Many of the products we sell to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers are incorporated into the customers’ drug manufacturing processes. In some cases, once a customer chooses a particular product for use in a diagnostic and therapeutic testing process or drug manufacturing process, it is less likely that the customer will later switch to a competing alternative. In many cases, the regulatory license for the product will specify the separation and cell culture supplement products qualified for use in the process. Obtaining the regulatory approvals needed for a change in the manufacturing process is time consuming, expensive and uncertain. Accordingly, if we fail to convince a diagnostic or therapeutic customer to choose our products early in its manufacturing design phase, we may permanently lose the opportunity to participate in the customer’s production of such product. Because we face vigorous competition in this market from companies with substantial financial and technical resources, we run the risk that our competitors will win significant early business with a customer making it difficult for us to recover that opportunity. Our profits will likely decline if we are unable to pass price increases on to customers or obtain necessary raw materials at their current prices. Most of our customer contracts are firm, fixed price contracts, providing for a predetermined fixed price for the products that we make, regardless of the costs we incur. If we experience significant increases in the expense of producing products due to increased cost of materials, components, labor, capital equipment or other factors and are unable to pass through such increases to our customers, our profitability will likely decline. The cost of producing the Company’s products and services is also sensitive to the price of energy. The selling prices of the Company’s products and services have not always increased in response to raw material, energy or other cost increases and the Company is unable to determine to what extent, if any, it will be able to pass future cost increases through to its customers. The Company’s inability to pass increased costs through to its customers could materially and adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our failure to improve our product offerings and develop and introduce new products may negatively impact our business. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to improve our product offerings and develop and introduce new product lines and extensions that integrate new technological advances. If we are unable to integrate technological advances into our product offerings or to design, develop, manufacture and market new product lines and extensions successfully and in a timely manner, our operating results will be adversely affected. While we expect to continue to invest in research and development for all of our market segments, we cannot assure you that our product and process development efforts will be successful or that new products we introduce will achieve market acceptance. We are subject to the risks associated with international sales. International sales accounted for 22% of our revenue from continuing operations during the year ended September 30, 2007. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. Risks associated with these sales include: • political and economic instability; • export controls; • changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • United States and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; and • changes in tax laws and tariffs. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We sell our products in certain international markets mainly through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption in operations and a resulting loss of revenue. Our financial condition could suffer if we experience unanticipated costs or enforcement action as a result of the Securities and Exchange Commission investigation, the Department of Justice investigation and other lawsuits and claims. The Company is currently subject to investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Department of Justice and party to one outstanding bankruptcy claim. The period of time necessary to resolve such investigations is uncertain and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. If we are subject to an adverse finding resulting from any or all such investigations, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us. In addition, considerable legal and accounting expenses related to these matters have been incurred to date and significant expenditures may continue to be incurred in the future. We may need additional capital. In order to implement our growth strategy and remain competitive, we must make investments in research and development to fund new product initiatives, continue to upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities, and actively seek out potential acquisition candidates. Although we believe that internal cash flows from operations, along with the existing capacity under our line of credit, will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital and normal operating requirements during the next fiscal year, we may not be able to fund our planned research and development, capital investment programs, and potential acquisitions without seeking additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on a variety of factors, some of which may not be within our control, including investor perceptions of our management, our business, and the industries in which we 15 Table of Contents operate. In June 2007, we entered into a $10.0 million senior secured credit facility with Merrill Lynch Capital. As of September 30, 2007, we had not drawn down on the line of credit. As of the same date, we had $5.5 million available for borrowing at an interest rate of 7.88%. Our ability to finance future acquisitions under our senior credit facility will be subject to certain conditions as set forth in the credit agreement as well as the level of available borrowing at that time. Even if we are able to access our credit facility for future acquisitions, we cannot assure you that our borrowing capacity under the credit facility, combined with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to implement our growth strategy. In such event, we may need to raise additional capital. If we raise additional capital through borrowings, we may become subject to restrictive covenants. If we raise money through the issuance of equity securities, your stock ownership will be diluted. Any inability to successfully raise needed capital on a timely or cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we fail to maintain adequate quality standards for our products and services, our business may be adversely affected and our reputation harmed. Our customers are subject to rigorous quality standards in order to maintain their products and the manufacturing processes and testing methods that generate them. A failure to sustain the specified quality requirements, including the processing and testing functions performed by our products, could result in the loss of the applicable regulatory license. Delays or quality lapses in our customers’ production lines could result in substantial economic losses to them and to us. For example, large production lots of plasma are expensive and a failure to properly categorize the disease state of plasma could result in the contamination of the entire lot, requiring its destruction. We also perform services that may be considered an extension of our customers’ manufacturing and quality assurance processes, which also require the maintenance of prescribed levels of quality. Although we believe that our continued focus on quality throughout the Company adequately addresses these risks, there can be no assurance that we will not experience occasional or systemic quality lapses in our manufacturing and service operations. If we experience significant or prolonged quality problems, our business and reputation may be harmed, which may result in the loss of customers, our inability to participate in future customer product opportunities and reduced revenue and earnings. Our principal shareholders may exert significant influence on us. As of September 30, 2007, Harbinger and Black Horse Capital were beneficial owners of approximately 23.2% and 8.2%, respectively, of the Company’s common stock. Under the Plan of Reorganization, Harbinger appointed two members and Black Horse Capital appointed one member to the Company’s Board of Directors. Therefore, Harbinger and Black Horse Capital have power to exert significant influence on our management and policies. We heavily rely on air cargo carriers and other third party package delivery services, and a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to import or export materials, increase our costs and lower our profitability. We ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies. In addition, we transport materials among our facilities, including our facilities in Maryland, and import raw materials from worldwide sources. Consequently, we heavily rely on air cargo carriers and third party package delivery providers. If any of our key third party package delivery providers experiences a significant disruption such that any of our products, components or raw materials cannot be delivered in a timely fashion or such that we incur additional shipping costs that we could not pass on to our customers, our costs may increase and our relationships with certain of our customers may be adversely affected. In particular, our products are particularly sensitive to temperature and delays in shipping could damage the products. In addition, if our third party package delivery providers increase prices and we are not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments to our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We have limited manufacturing capabilities, and if our manufacturing capabilities are insufficient to produce an adequate supply of products at appropriate quality levels, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently have limited resources and facilities for the commercial manufacturing of sufficient quantities of product to meet expected demand. We have focused significant effort on continual improvement programs in our manufacturing operations intended to improve quality, yields and throughput. Although we believe we have made progress in manufacturing to enable us to supply adequate amounts of product to support our commercialization efforts, there can be no assurances that supply will not be constrained going forward. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products for which we may receive approval, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we underestimate growth, we may not have the capability to satisfy market demand and our business will suffer. The cost of compliance or failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may adversely affect our business. As a public reporting company, we are subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which may result in higher compliance costs and may adversely affect our financial results and our ability to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors or qualified executive officers. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act affects corporate governance, securities disclosure, compliance practices, internal audits, disclosure controls and procedures, and financial reporting and accounting systems. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for example, requires a company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal controls over financial reporting. The failure to comply with Section 404 may result in investors losing confidence in the reliability of our financial statements (which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock), prevent us from providing the required financial information in a timely manner (which could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock), prevent us from otherwise complying with the standards applicable to us as a public company and subject us to adverse regulatory consequences. A disaster at our facilities could substantially impact our business. Our business and operations depend on the extent to which our facilities and products are protected against damage from fire, earthquakes, power loss and similar events. Despite precautions we have taken, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem could, among other things, hinder our research and development efforts, delay the shipment of our products and affect our ability to receive and fulfill orders. For example, our two facilities in Maryland store approximately 17 million biological samples for our government and commercial customers, and such samples are irreplaceable. Additionally, our Milford facility is our primary manufacturing plant. Although we believe that our back-up power sources are sufficient in an emergency situation, an earthquake, fire, other disaster or power outage at any of these locations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that our insurance coverage is comparable to those of similar companies in our industry, it does not cover all natural disasters, in particular, floods and terrorism. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could prevent us from selling our products and hinder our financial performance. The technology and designs underlying our products may not be fully protected by patent rights. Our future success is dependent primarily on non-patented trade secrets and on the innovative skills, technological expertise and management abilities of our employees. Our technology may not preclude or inhibit competitors from producing products that have identical performance as our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any protected trade secret could ultimately be proven valid if challenged. Any such challenge, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert the attention and resources of our management and, if successful, require us to pay monetary damages. 17 Table of Contents Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer and marketer of various diagnostic and therapeutic products, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the performance, quality or safety of our products. Even though we believe that our current product liability insurance is sufficient at this time, product liability claims challenging performance, quality or safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a particular product, which could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be true even if the claims themselves are proven not to be true or settled for immaterial amounts. Foreign restrictions on importation and exportation of blood derivatives. Concern over blood safety has led to movements in a number of European and other countries to restrict the importation and exportation of blood and blood derivatives, including antibodies collected outside the countries’ borders or, in the case of certain European countries, outside Europe. To date, these efforts have not led to any meaningful restriction on the importation or exportation of blood or blood derivates and have not adversely affected our business. Such restrictions, however, continue to be debated, and there can be no assurance that such restrictions will not be imposed in the future. If imposed, such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The industries and market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively with larger companies with greater financial resources than we have. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and often lack significant barriers to entry, enabling new businesses to enter these markets relatively easily. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, making them better equipped to license technologies and intellectual property from third parties or to fund research and development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. Moreover, competitive conditions in many markets in which we operate restrict our ability to implement price increases to fully recover any higher costs of acquired goods and services resulting from inflation and other drivers of cost increases. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. Although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, maintaining these advantages will require us to continue to invest in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. Competition for customers depends primarily on the ability to provide products or services of the quality and in the quantity required by customers. If we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, we will compete with many other companies that may have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our failure to provide products of the quality and quantity demanded by our customers and successfully market new products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operation. Certain of our disease state products are derived from donors with rare characteristics, resulting in increased competition for such donors. If we are unable to maintain and expand our donor base, this could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to significant regulation by the government and other regulatory authorities. Our business is heavily regulated in the United States and internationally. In addition to the FDA which regulates, among other matters, the testing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, export, and marketing of blood products and IVD products, various other federal, state and local regulations also apply and can be, in some cases, more restrictive. If we fail to comply with FDA or other regulatory requirements, we could be subjected to civil and criminal penalties, or even required to suspend or cease operations. Any such actions could severely curtail our sales to biologics companies. Failure of our plasma suppliers or customers to comply with 18 Table of Contents FDA requirements could also adversely affect us. In addition, more restrictive laws, regulations or interpretations could be adopted, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business. We also invest significant resources in developing quality assurance programs, such as ISO certification. We devote substantial resources to complying with laws and regulations; however, the possibility cannot be eliminated that interpretations of existing laws and regulations will result in findings that we have not complied with significant existing regulations. Such a finding could materially harm the business. Moreover, healthcare reform is continually under consideration by regulators, and the Company does not know how laws and regulations will change in the future. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act, may result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. The Company is subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees. All of the Company’s laboratories are subject to applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal of all laboratory specimens, and we utilize outside vendors for disposal of such specimens. In addition, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and HBV. These requirements, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal agencies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to comply with all applicable standards or that violations will not occur. Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations could subject the Company to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions which would have a material adverse effect on its business. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on the Company which may be costly. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that more restrictive laws, rules and regulations or enforcement policies will not be adopted in the future which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business or prospects. Changes in demand for plasma-derived products and the availability of donated plasma could affect profitability. A majority of our business depends on the availability of donated plasma. Only a small percentage of the population donates plasma and regulations intended to reduce the risk of introducing infectious diseases in the blood supply have decreased the pool of potential donors. If the level of donor participation declines, the Company may not be able to obtain adequate supply at a reasonable cost to maintain profitability in plasma-derived products. We are subject to governmental reforms and the adequacy of reimbursement. Our products and services are primarily intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently being used in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has changed significantly in an effort to reduce costs. These changes include increased use of managed care, cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels, consolidation of pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply distributors, and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these changes, such as adverse changes in government funding of healthcare services, legislation or regulations governing the privacy 19 Table of Contents of patient information, or the delivery or pricing of pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to greatly reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Stocks traded on the Pink Sheets are subject to greater market risks than those of exchange-traded and NASDAQ stocks since they are less liquid. Our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market effective March 22, 2006 because of the Company’s failure to timely complete and file certain SEC reports. Since being delisted, the common stock has traded on the Pink Sheets. Our securities are thinly traded and not subject to the level of regulation imposed on securities listed or traded on NASDAQ or on a national securities exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of the Company’s common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to its price. Stock price could be volatile. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may be more volatile in the future. Factors such as the announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by the Company or by the competition, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results and market conditions for healthcare stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The generally low volume of trading in our common stock makes it more vulnerable to rapid changes in price in response to market conditions. We may issue preferred stock in the future. We have authorized in our Certificate of Incorporation the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors may, without further action by our shareholders, issue preferred stock in one or more series. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation and conversion and redemption rights. Although we have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock or to create new series of preferred stock, if we do issue preferred stock, it could affect the rights, or even reduce the value, of our common stock. Anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects and may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that might be considered in the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions, among other things: • eliminate cumulative voting rights; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock having such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, without any vote or further action by our shareholders; and • eliminate the right of shareholders to act by written consent. Lack of dividend payments. The Company intends to retain any future earnings for use in its business and therefore does not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any cash dividends in the future will depend on the Company’s earnings, financial condition, capital needs and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company’s credit agreement prohibits the payment of dividends during the term of the agreement. The agreement terminates on June 4, 2010. 20 Table of Contents Our shareholders’ ability to sell shares of the Company’s stock may be limited. Three of our shareholders, Harbinger, Black Horse and Ashford Capital Management Inc. (“Ashford Capital”), collectively, are owners of approximately 40% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, we have a very limited number of shares in our public float, and as a result, there could be extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock and the ability to buy and sell our shares could be impaired. If any or all of Harbinger, Black Horse or Ashford Capital were to liquidate their shares, the market price could decline significantly. Additional risk factors In addition to the foregoing risk factors, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed by additional factors, including but not limited to the following: • our ability to maintain favorable supplier agreements and relationships with major customers and suppliers; • the loss of any significant customers or reduced orders from significant customers; • our ability to maintain and expand our customer base; • increased competition for donors, which may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified donors; • our ability to meet future customer demand for plasma products; and • changes in industry trends, customer specifications and demand, market demand in general and potential foreign restrictions of the importation of our products. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 