Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant hazards and risks, including those described below. If any of such events should occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. We have had limited operating revenues and have incurred losses from operations for an extended period. Since our 2010 sale of certain operating assets in Colombia, we have had limited operating revenues and have incurred recurring losses from operations. Unless and until we are successful in growing our production through drilling, acquisition or otherwise, we expect to continue to experience limited operating revenues and recurring losses from operations. Our cash flows and profitability may fluctuate by large amounts as a result of our strategy of investment in drilling and exploration of unproven properties and opportunistic asset divestitures. We have historically experienced large fluctuations in our cash flows and profitability associated with our drilling and development of properties, divestitures of interests in select properties and reinvestment in drilling and development of unproven properties. Our strategy has historically focused on early identification of, and entrance into, existing and emerging resource plays. As part of that strategy, we and our partners have participated in accumulating positions and drilling unproven acreage, that may be perceived to be higher risk, where acquisition, drilling and operation costs may be lower with a view to proving reserves, divesting selected assets on an opportunistic basis to operators willing to pay higher prices for proven prospects without early stage drilling risk and reinvesting operating cash flow and sales proceeds in accumulating, drilling and developing additional, and larger, acreage positions. As a result of such strategy, we sold acreage positions in 2008, 2010 and 2012 that provided one-time profits and cash proceeds and substantially reduced our proved reserves, production and operating cash flows immediately following such sales and after which we invested substantial portions of sales proceeds in the accumulation and exploratory drilling of larger acreage positions. While our reserves, production, operating cash flows and operating profitability have historically grown as properties have been drilled and developed and have fallen following strategic asset divestitures when we are incurring costs to drill and develop properties, there is no assurance that our strategy will produce such results in the future and, in fact, that strategy did not produce new reserves, production, cash flow or profitability when deployed on our CPO 4 prospect. As a result of drilling and other risks, there can be no assurance that our reserve and production growth strategy will allow us to grow, and replace, our acreage position, reserves, production and profitability following divestitures and we may continue to experience large fluctuations in such positions. Our divestiture strategy exposes us to risks associated with a lack of diversification and a concentration of properties, increased dependence on a small number of properties and disproportionate risk of loss associated with drilling results and operations of one or a small number of properties. Because a significant element of our strategy has been the opportunistic divestiture of properties and redeployment of resources to new properties, we have historically been focused on development of a small number of geographically concentrated prospects. Accordingly, we lack diversification with respect to the nature and geographic location of our holdings. As a result, we are exposed to higher dependence on individual resource plays and may experience substantial losses should a single individual prospect prove unsuccessful. Absent other operating properties, the failure or underperformance of a single prospect could materially adversely affect our financial resources, reserve and production outlook and profitability. In particular, during 2011 and 2012 we committed a substantial portion of the proceeds received from our 2010 divestiture of Hupecol properties to a drilling program on our CPO 4 prospect. Between 2011 and 2012, we participated in the drilling of three test wells on our CPO 4 prospect, each of which was determined to be noncommercial and, ultimately, plugged and abandoned. Given our focus on development of the CPO 4 prospect, including the commitment of substantial financial resources and the lack of current production from our other prospects, the failure to complete a commercial well on the prospect materially adversely affected our financial position and operating outlook. 13 Table of Contents Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and, therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. If we are unable to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production, our cash flow and income will decline as production declines, until our existing properties would be incapable of sustaining commercial production. A substantial percentage of our properties are unproven and undeveloped; therefore the cost of proving and developing our properties and risk associated with our success is greater than would be the case if the majority of our properties were categorized as proved developed producing. Because a substantial percentage of our properties are unproven and undeveloped, we require significant capital to prove and develop such properties before they may become productive. Following the sale of our principal producing property in Colombia in March 2012, substantially all of our net acreage was unproven and undeveloped. Because of the inherent uncertainties associated with drilling for oil and gas, some of these properties may never be successfully drilled and developed to the extent that they result in positive cash flow. Even if we are successful in our drilling and development efforts, it could take several years for a significant portion of our unproven properties to be converted to positive cash flow. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are properties on which we have identified what we believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of oil or natural gas potential. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Please read “Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate” (below) for a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: ● delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; ● pressure or irregularities in geological formations; ● shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; ● equipment failures or accidents; ● adverse weather conditions; 14 Table of Contents ● reductions in oil and natural gas prices; ● title problems; and ● limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Cost overruns, curtailments, delays and cancellations of operations as a result of the above factors and other factors common in our industry may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial position and our ability to maintain our interests in prospects. We may incur substantial uninsured losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: ● environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; ● abnormally pressured formations; ● mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; ● fires and explosions; ● personal injuries and death; and ● natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to our company. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent upon third party operators of our oil and gas properties. Under the terms of the operating agreements related to our oil and gas properties, third parties act as the operator of each of our oil and gas wells and control the drilling and operating activities to be conducted on our properties. Therefore, we have limited control over certain decisions related to activities on our properties, which could affect our results of operations. Decisions over which we have limited control include: ● the timing and amount of capital expenditures; ● the timing of initiating the drilling and recompleting of wells; ● the extent of operating costs; and ● the level of ongoing production. Decisions made by our operators may be different than those we would make reflecting priorities different than our priorities and may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial position. 15 Table of Contents The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations. As the price of oil and natural gas increases, the demand for production equipment and personnel will likely also increase, potentially resulting, at least in the near-term, in shortages of equipment and personnel. In addition, larger producers may be more likely to secure access to such equipment by virtue of offering drilling companies more lucrative terms. If we are unable to acquire access to such resources, or can obtain access only at higher prices, not only would this potentially delay our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow, but could also significantly increase the cost of producing those reserves, thereby negatively impacting anticipated net income. We may need additional financing to support operations and future capital commitments. At December 31, 2013, our estimated drilling budget for 2014 was approximately $4.7 million, principally relating to the drilling of two test wells on the Serrania prospect, shooting seismic on the Los Picachos and Macaya Concessions and funding our estimated share of drilling costs on domestic prospects. While we believe that our cash on hand at December 31, 2013 will support or drilling budget and overhead during 2014, there is no assurance that we will not require additional financing to support drilling operations and other cash requirements during 2014 or in future years. Our drilling budget can vary substantially based on the timing and results of drilling operations as well as determinations to participate in the drilling and development of new prospects. We have no commitments to provide any additional financing and there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all, if needed to fully fund our 2014 drilling budget and to support future acquisitions and development activities. If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may operate in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil or natural gas could have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: ● changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; ● the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; ● the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; 16 Table of Contents ● political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil-producing activity; ● the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; ● the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; ● weather conditions; ● technological advances affecting energy consumption; and ● the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Lower prices will also negatively impact the value of our proved reserves. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. Should the U.S. and global economies experience weakness, such as that experienced during the global financial crisis of 2008-2009, demand for energy and accompanying commodity prices may decline and our financial position may deteriorate along with our ability to operate profitably and our ability to obtain financing to support operations and the cost and terms of the same, is unclear. With respect to our business, the crisis experienced during the 2008-2009 period resulted in a steep decline in the price of oil and natural gas, a marked decline in the value of our reserves, a determination in March 2009 to temporarily shut-in production from our Colombian wells and reduced revenues and profitability. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially negatively impacting the trading value of our securities. Accounting rules require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we have and may be required to further write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down would constitute a non-cash charge to earnings. It is likely the cumulative effect of a write-down could also negatively impact the trading price of our securities. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves reported. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 17 Table of Contents The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves, as reported from time to time, should not be assumed to be the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on costs on the date of the estimate and average prices over the preceding twelve months. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If future prices decline or costs increase it could negatively impact our ability to finance operations, and individual properties could cease being commercially viable, affecting our decision to continue operations on producing properties or to attempt to develop properties. All of these factors would have a negative impact on earnings and net income, and most likely the trading price of our securities. Our operations in Colombia are subject to risks relating to political and economic instability. We currently have interests in multiple oil and gas concessions in Colombia and anticipate that operations in Colombia will constitute a substantial element of our strategy going forward. The political climate in Colombia is unstable and could be subject to radical change over a very short period of time. In the event of a significant negative change in the political or economic climate in Colombia, we may be forced to abandon or suspend our operations in Colombia. A 40-year armed conflict between government forces and anti-government insurgent groups and illegal paramilitary groups—both funded by the drug trade—continues in Colombia. Insurgents continue to attack civilians and violent guerilla activity continues in many parts of the country. While our operators take measures to protect our assets, operations and personnel from guerilla activity, continuing attempts to reduce or prevent guerilla activity may not be successful and guerilla activity may disrupt our operations in the future. There can also be no assurance that we can maintain the safety of our operations and personnel in Colombia or that this violence will not affect our operations in the future. Continued or heightened security concerns in Colombia could also result in a significant loss to us. Additionally, Colombia is among several nations whose eligibility to receive foreign aid from the United States is dependent on its progress in stemming the production and transit of illegal drugs, which is subject to an annual review by the President of the United States. Although Colombia is currently eligible for such aid, Colombia may not remain eligible in the future. A finding by the President that Colombia has failed demonstrably to meet its obligations under international counternarcotics agreements may result in any of the following: ● all bilateral aid, except anti-narcotics and humanitarian aid, would be suspended; ● the Export-Import Bank of the United States and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation would not approve financing for new projects in Colombia; ● United States representatives at multilateral lending institutions would be required to vote against all loan requests from Colombia, although such votes would not constitute vetoes; and ● the President of the United States and Congress would retain the right to apply future trade sanctions. Each of these consequences could result in adverse economic consequences in Colombia and could further heighten the political and economic risks associated with our operations there. Any changes in the holders of significant government offices could have adverse consequences on our relationship with key governmental agencies and the Colombian government’s ability to control guerrilla activities and could exacerbate the factors relating to our foreign operations. Any sanctions imposed on Colombia by the United States government could threaten our ability to obtain necessary financing to develop the Colombian properties or cause Colombia to retaliate against us, including by nationalizing our Colombian assets. Accordingly, the imposition of the foregoing economic and trade sanctions on Colombia would likely result in a substantial loss and a decrease in the price of our common stock. The United States may impose sanctions on Colombia in the future, and we cannot predict the effect in Colombia that these sanctions might cause. Our operations in Colombia are controlled by operators which may carry out transactions affecting our Colombian assets and operations without our consent. Our operations in Colombia are subject to a substantial degree of control by the operators of the properties in which we hold interests in Colombia. We are an investor in a number of properties operated by Hupecol and our interest in the assets and operations of Hupecol related entities and ventures represent a substantial portion of our current assets in Colombia. During 2008, 2010 and 2012, respectively, Hupecol sold its interest in multiple concessions and entities holding multiple concessions each representing, at the time, the largest prospect(s) in terms of reserves and revenues in which we then held an interest. In early March 2009, Hupecol determined to temporarily shut-in production from our Colombian properties. It is possible that Hupecol will carry out similar sales or acquisitions of prospects or make similar decisions in the future. Our management intends to closely monitor the nature and progress of future transactions by Hupecol in order to protect our interests. However, we have no effective ability to alter or prevent a transaction and are unable to predict whether or not any such transactions will in fact occur or the nature or timing of any such transaction. 18 Table of Contents In addition to the control exercised by Hupecol with respect to the properties it operates, as minority owners, we are, or may be, subject to substantial control of other properties in Colombia in which we hold interests that are operated by third party operators, other than Hupecol. Our Colombian assets presently consist, and in the future are expected to continue to consist, exclusively of minority, non-operator project interests in certain Colombian assets owned and operated by third party operators. Our passive investments in such Colombian assets constitute our principal assets, and as a result, our financial results are directly affected by the independent strategies and decisions of the operators of those properties. We may be exposed to additional expenses and losses arising from the financial position of our joint interest partners in Colombia. Our Colombian properties are developed under financial arrangements with various joint interest partners. If other joint interest partners are unable, or unwilling, to satisfy their various obligations relating to prospects, we may be required to pay a proportionately higher share of development costs on those prospects or the prospect may be inadequately capitalized to achieve optimal results. We may be exposed to substantial fines and penalties if we or our partners fail to comply with laws and regulations associated with our activities in foreign countries, including Colombia, regarding U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials and other corrupt practices. Our Colombian assets constitute our principal assets and consist exclusively of minority, non-operator project interests. Third parties act as the operator of each of our oil and gas wells and control all drilling and operating activities conducted with respect to our Colombian properties. Therefore, we have limited control over decisions related to activities on our properties, and we cannot provide assurance that our partners or their employees, contractors or agents will not take actions in violation of applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations. In the course of conducting business in Colombia, we have relied primarily on the representations and warranties made by our operating and non-operating partners in the farmout and joint operating agreements which govern our respective project interests to the effect that: ● each party has not and will not offer or make payments to any person, including a government official, that would violate the laws of the country of operations, the country of formation of any of the partners or the principals described in the Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions; and ● each party will maintain adequate internal controls, properly record and report all transactions and comply with the laws applicable to the transaction. While we periodically inquire as to the continuing accuracy of these representations, as a minority non-operator, we are limited in our ability to assure compliance. Consequently, we cannot provide assurance that the procedural safeguards, if any, adopted by our partners or the representations and warranties contained in these agreements and our reliance on them will protect us from liability should a violation occur. Any violations of the anti-bribery, accounting controls or books and records provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by us or our partners could subject us and, where deemed appropriate, individuals, in certain cases, to a broad range of civil and criminal penalties, including but not limited to, imprisonment, injunctive relief, disgorgement, substantial fines or penalties, prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, imposed modifications to business practices and compliance programs, including retention of an independent monitor to oversee compliance, and could also materially damage our reputation, our business and our operating results. Our operations will be subject to environmental and other government laws and regulations that are costly and could potentially subject us to substantial liabilities. Crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations in the United States and in Colombia are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Oil and gas companies are subject to laws and regulations addressing, among others, land use and lease permit restrictions, bonding and other financial assurance related to drilling and production activities, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental and safety matters, plugging and abandonment of wells and associated infrastructure after production has ceased, operational reporting and taxation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations can subject us to governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties, as well as potential liability for personal injuries and property and natural resources damages. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations, and future laws or regulations, or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could increase such compliance costs. Regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail our operations and could have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: ● require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; ● restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; ● limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and ● impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: ● the imposition of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties; ● incurring investigatory or remedial obligations; and ● the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Although we intend to be in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with existing or new regulations. In addition, the risk of accidental spills, leakages or other circumstances could expose us to extensive liability. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint and several liability, we may be required to remediate our contaminated properties regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were or were not in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Moreover, new or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with them could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, many countries as well as several states and regions of the U.S. have agreed to regulate emissions of “greenhouse gases.” Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning of natural gas and oil, are greenhouse gases. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact some of our operations and demand for some of our services or products in the future. 20 Table of Contents Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Obama Administration has proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain our management and non-management employees, including engineers, geoscientists and other technical and professional staff and, in particular, our President, John Terwilliger, who is principally responsible for sourcing our resource plays. We will depend, to a large extent, on the efforts, technical expertise and continued employment of such personnel and members of our management team. If members of our management team should resign or we are unable to attract the necessary personnel, our business operations could be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult to resell common stock when, or at prices, desired. The price of our common stock constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: ● quarterly variations in our operating results; ● operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; ● changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; ● announcements by us, our partners or our competitors of leasing and drilling activities; ● the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; ● future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; 21 Table of Contents ● changes in general conditions in our industry and in the economy, the financial markets and the domestic or international political situation; ● fluctuations in oil and gas prices; ● departures of key personnel; and ● regulatory considerations. Our stock has suffered significant declines over the past several years mirroring, among other things, the delays in drilling and ultimate determination to cease completion efforts on test wells on the CPO 4 prospect and the announcement that the SEC is conducting an investigation of our company. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may affect our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market or privately, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Delaware corporate law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our Company or our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions without the concurrence of our management or board of directors. These provisions: ● authorize our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors, without stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; ● provide for a staggered board of directors and three-year terms for directors, so that no more than one-third of our directors could be replaced at any annual meeting; ● provide that directors may be removed only for cause; and ● establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could also delay or prevent a change of control. Taken together, these provisions of our charter, bylaws, and Delaware law may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices of our common stock and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our management owns a significant amount of our common stock, giving them influence or control in corporate transactions and other matters, and their interests could differ from those of other shareholders. At December 31, 2013, our directors and executive officers owned approximately 22% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our current directors and executive officers are in a position to significantly influence or control the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of any amendment to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Such level of control of the Company may delay or prevent a change of control on terms favorable to the other shareholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other shareholders. 22 Table of Contents We may incur costs and be subject to sanctions and uncertainties relating to the ongoing investigation of our company by the SEC. We are the subject of an ongoing formal investigation by the SEC. Pursuant to the investigation, we received subpoenas issued by the SEC calling for the testimony of our principal officers and the delivery of certain documents. The subpoenas were issued pursuant to a nonpublic formal order of private investigation issued by the SEC on March 1, 2011, which followed a nonpublic informal inquiry commenced by the SEC in October 2010. After investigation by the SEC of possible violations of the federal securities laws, in August 2013, we, and our CEO, received a so-called “Wells” notice advising that the staff of the SEC has made a preliminary recommendation to initiate an enforcement action and providing the opportunity to provide reasons of law, policy or fact why the proposed enforcement action should not be filed. The commencement of an enforcement action and an ultimate finding that we have violated the U.S. securities laws would likely have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We could be negatively impacted by securities class action complaints. On April 27, 2012, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas against us and certain of our executive officers, which we refer to as the Silverman litigation. The complaint generally alleges that, between March 29, 2010 and April 18, 2012, all of the defendants violated Sections 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5 and the individual defendants violated Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act in making materially false and misleading statements including certain statements related to the status and viability of the first test well on the CPO 4 prospect. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, interest, attorneys’ fees, and other costs. In August 2013, our motion to dismiss the Silverman litigation was granted after which the plaintiffs filed an appeal of such motion. The case remains pending on appeal. It will take time and money to defend against this suit and may distract us from more productive activities. We may not be successful in defending this litigation, and insurance proceeds may not be sufficient to cover any liability under such claims. If the plaintiffs in the Silverman litigation, or the plaintiffs in any other class action litigation, are successful in their litigation, the payment by us of damages, interest, attorneys’ fees and costs would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 