ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company entails the following risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider these risk factors when evaluating any investment in the Company. Any of these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements set forth herein, and could otherwise have a significant adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations or on the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Intense competition in the sporting goods industry could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. The retail market for sporting goods is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. We compete directly or indirectly with the following categories of companies: • other traditional sporting goods stores and chains; • mass merchandisers, discount stores and department stores, such as Wal-Mart, Kmart, Target, Kohl’s, JC Penney, and Sears; • specialty sporting goods shops and pro shops, such as Foot Locker, Golfsmith, Bass Pro Shops, Gander Mountain and REI; • sporting goods superstores, such as Sports Chalet, Dick’s Sporting Goods and The Sports Authority; and • catalog and Internet-based retailers. Some of our competitors have a larger number of stores and greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we have. If our competitors reduce their prices, it may be difficult for us to reach our net sales goals without reducing our prices. As a result of this competition, we may also need to spend more on advertising and promotion than we anticipate. If we are unable to compete successfully, our operating results will suffer. 7 Table of Contents Adverse changes in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items, which could reduce our net sales. In general, our sales represent discretionary spending by our customers. Discretionary spending is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, electricity power rates, gasoline prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Many of these factors are outside of our control. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs, or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. We believe that these factors (among others) led to less than anticipated sales during fiscal 2007, particularly in the fourth quarter. We are now starting to experience increased inflationary pressure on our product costs. If unfavorable economic conditions continue to challenge the consumer environment, or if inflationary pressures continue to drive up our product costs, our net sales, product margins and profitability could continue to decline. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, we may experience lower net sales, higher inventory, higher inventory markdowns and lower margins. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty. These preferences are also subject to change. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in sporting goods merchandise and consumers’ participation in sports. If we fail to identify and respond to these changes, our net sales may decline. In addition, because we often make commitments to purchase products from our vendors up to six months in advance of the proposed delivery, if we misjudge the market for our merchandise, we may over-stock unpopular products and be forced to take inventory markdowns that could have a negative impact on profitability. Our quarterly sales and operating results fluctuate substantially, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our net and same store sales and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and will vary from quarter to quarter in the future. These fluctuations may adversely affect our financial condition and the market price of our common stock. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, have historically caused and will continue to cause, variations in our quarterly net and same store sales and operating results, including changes in consumer demand for our products, competition in our markets, changes in pricing or other actions taken by our competitors, weather conditions in our markets, natural disasters, litigation, changes in accounting standards, changes in management’s accounting estimates or assumptions and economic conditions specific to our western markets and generally. If we are unable to successfully implement our controlled growth strategy or manage our growing business, our future operating results could suffer. One of our strategies includes opening profitable stores in new and existing markets. As a result, at the end of fiscal 2007 we operated 32% more stores than we did at the end of fiscal 2002. Our ability to successfully implement and capitalize on our growth strategy could be negatively affected by various factors including: • we may not be able to find suitable sites available for leasing; • we may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease terms; • we may not be able to hire and retain qualified store personnel; and • we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund our expansion plans. In addition, our expansion in new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution and merchandising challenges that differ from our current challenges. These potential new challenges include competition among our stores, added strain on our distribution center, additional information to be processed by our management information systems, diversion of management attention from ongoing operations and challenges associated 8 Table of Contents with managing a substantially larger enterprise. We face additional challenges in entering new markets, including consumers’ lack of awareness of us, difficulties in hiring personnel and problems due to our unfamiliarity with local real estate markets and demographics. New markets may also have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, responsiveness to print advertising and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. To the extent that we are not able to meet these new challenges, our net sales could decrease and our operating costs could increase. Increased costs or declines in the effectiveness of print advertising could cause our operating results to suffer. Our business relies heavily on print advertising. We utilize print advertising programs that include newspaper inserts, direct mailers and courier-delivered inserts in order to effectively deliver our message to our targeted markets. A decline in newspaper circulation or readership could limit the number of people who receive or read our advertisements. If we are unable to develop other effective strategies to reach potential customers within our desired markets, awareness of our stores, products and promotions could decline and our net sales could suffer. In addition, an increase in the cost of print advertising, paper or postal or other delivery fees could increase the cost of our advertising and adversely affect our operating results. Because our stores are concentrated in the western United States, we are subject to regional risks. Our stores are located in the western United States. Because of this, we are subject to regional risks, such as the economy, including downturns in the housing market, weather conditions, power outages, earthquakes and other natural disasters specific to the states in which we operate. For example, particularly in southern California where we have a high concentration of stores, seasonal factors such as unfavorable snow conditions (such as those that occurred in the winter of 2005-2006), inclement weather (such as the unusually heavy rains that occurred in the winter of 2004-2005) or other localized conditions such as flooding, fires (such as those that occurred in 2007), earthquakes or electricity blackouts could harm our operations. State and local regulatory compliance also can impact our financial results. If the region were to suffer an economic downturn or other adverse regional event, our net sales and profitability and our ability to implement our planned expansion program could suffer. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of Steven G. Miller, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other key personnel with longstanding tenure who are not obligated to stay with us. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business and operations. In addition, as our business grows, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in a timely manner and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management-level sales associates and other employees. Competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages and benefits to attract a sufficient number of employees, and increases in the minimum wage or other employee benefit costs could increase our operating expense. If we are unable to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future, our net sales growth and operating results may suffer. Our hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage, theft or intrusion that could harm our business. Our success, in particular our ability to successfully manage inventory levels and process customer transactions, largely depends upon the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. We use management information systems to track inventory information at the store level, communicate customer information and aggregate daily sales information, process financial information and purchasing card transactions and process shipments of goods. These systems and our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees; 9 Table of Contents • physical and electronic loss of data, security breaches, misappropriation, data theft and similar events; and • computer viruses, worms, Trojan horses, intrusions, or other external threats. Any failure of our computer hardware or software systems that causes an interruption in our operations or a decrease in inventory tracking could result in reduced net sales and profitability. Additionally, if any data intrusion, security breach, misappropriation or theft were to occur, we could incur significant costs in responding to such event, including responding to any resulting claims, litigation or investigations, which could harm our operating results. If our suppliers do not provide sufficient quantities of products, our net sales and profitability could suffer. We purchase merchandise from over 700 vendors. Although only one vendor represented slightly more than 5.0% of our total purchases during the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, our dependence on principal suppliers involves risk. Our 20 largest vendors collectively accounted for 34.7% of our total purchases during the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007. If there is a disruption in supply from a principal supplier or distributor, we may be unable to obtain merchandise that we desire to sell and that consumers desire to purchase. A vendor could discontinue selling products to us at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control. Our net sales and profitability could decline if we are unable to promptly replace a vendor who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with a vendor providing equally appealing products. Moreover, many of our suppliers provide us with incentives, such as return privileges, volume purchase allowances and cooperative advertising. A decline or discontinuation of these incentives could reduce our profits. Because many of the products that we sell are manufactured abroad, we may face delays, increased cost or quality control deficiencies in the importation of these products, which could reduce our sales and profitability. Like many other sporting goods retailers, a significant portion of the products that we purchase for resale, including those purchased from domestic suppliers, is manufactured abroad in countries such as China, Taiwan and South Korea. In addition, we believe most, if not all, of our private label merchandise is manufactured abroad. Foreign imports subject us to the risks of changes in import duties or quotas, new restrictions on imports, loss of “most favored nation” status with the United States for a particular foreign country, work stoppages, delays in shipment, freight cost increases, product cost increases due to foreign currency fluctuations or revaluations, and economic uncertainties (including the United States imposing antidumping or countervailing duty orders, safeguards, remedies or compensation and retaliation due to illegal foreign trade practices). If any of these or other factors were to cause a disruption of trade from the countries in which the suppliers of our vendors are located, we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of products to satisfy our requirements or our cost of obtaining products may increase. In addition, to the extent that any foreign manufacturers which supply products to us directly or indirectly utilize quality control standards, labor practices or other practices that vary from those commonly accepted in the United States (such as the recently reported high lead content found in products manufactured abroad), we could be hurt by any resulting negative publicity or, in some cases, face potential liability. To date, we have not experienced any difficulties of this nature. Historically, instability in the political and economic environments of the countries in which our vendors or we obtain our products has not had a material adverse effect on our operations. However, we cannot predict the effect that future changes in economic or political conditions in such foreign countries may have on our operations. In the event of disruptions or delays in supply due to economic or political conditions in foreign countries, such disruptions or delays could adversely affect our results of operations unless and until alternative supply arrangements could be made. In addition, merchandise purchased from alternative sources may be of lesser quality or more expensive than the merchandise we currently purchase abroad. 10 Table of Contents Disruptions in transportation, including disruptions at shipping ports through which our products are imported could prevent us from timely distribution and delivery of inventory, which could reduce our sales and profitability. A substantial amount of our inventory is manufactured abroad. From time to time, shipping ports experience capacity constraints, labor strikes, work stoppages or other disruptions that may delay the delivery of imported products. For example, the Port of Los Angeles, through which a substantial amount of the products manufactured abroad that we sell are imported, experienced delays in fiscal 2004 in distribution of products to their final destination due to difficulties associated with capacity limitations. In addition, acts of terrorism could significantly disrupt operations at the Port of Los Angeles or otherwise impact transportation of the imported merchandise we sell. Future disruptions at a shipping port at which our products are received, whether due to delays at the Port of Los Angeles or otherwise, may result in delays in the transportation of such products to our distribution center and may ultimately delay the stocking of our stores with the affected merchandise. As a result, our net sales and profitability could decline. All of our stores rely on a single distribution center. Any disruption or other operational difficulties at this distribution center could reduce our net sales or increase our operating costs. We rely on a single distribution center to service our business. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to the distribution center due to fire, earthquake or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair both our ability to adequately stock our stores and our net sales and profitability. If the security measures used at our distribution center do not prevent inventory theft, our gross margin may significantly decrease. Further, in the event that we are unable to grow our net sales sufficiently to allow us to leverage the costs of this facility in the manner we anticipate, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Increases in transportation costs due to rising fuel costs and other factors may negatively impact our operating results. We rely upon various means of transportation, including sea and truck, to deliver products from vendors to our distribution center and from our distribution center to our stores. Consequently, our results can vary depending upon the price of fuel. The price of oil has risen significantly in the last few years. This increase and any future increases may result in an increase in our transportation costs for delivery of product to our distribution center and distribution to our stores, as well as our vendors’ transportation costs, which could decrease our operating profits. In addition, labor shortages in the transportation industry could negatively affect transportation costs and our ability to supply our stores in a timely manner. In particular, our business is highly dependent on the trucking industry to deliver products to our distribution center and our stores. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we or our vendors are unable to secure adequate trucking resources at competitive prices to fulfill our delivery schedules to our distribution center or stores. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war may harm our operating results. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to us and our employees, facilities, information systems, vendors, and customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, profitability and financial condition. Terrorist attacks could also have a significant impact on ports or international shipping on which we are substantially dependent for the supply of much of the merchandise we sell. Our corporate headquarters is located near Los Angeles International Airport and the Port of Los Angeles, which have been identified as potential terrorism targets. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility may cause greater uncertainty and cause our business to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. Military action taken in response to such attacks could also have a short or long-term negative economic impact upon the financial markets, international shipping and our business in general. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We are leveraged, future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. As of December 30, 2007, the aggregate amount of our outstanding indebtedness, including capital lease obligations, was $107.3 million. Our leveraged financial position means: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to service our indebtedness; • our ability to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes might be impeded; • we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and our ability to withstand competitive pressures is limited; and • we are more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, which may affect our interest expense and negatively impact our operating results. If our business declines, our future cash flow might not be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments. If we fail to make any required payment under our financing agreement, our debt payments may be accelerated under this instrument. In addition, in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency or a material breach of any covenant contained in our financing agreement, our debt may be accelerated. This acceleration could also result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have outstanding at that time. The level of our indebtedness, and our ability to service our indebtedness, is directly affected by our cash flow from operations. Due in part to lower than anticipated sales during fiscal 2007, and particularly the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, our indebtedness increased from $77.1 million at the end of fiscal 2006 to $103.4 million at the end of fiscal 2007. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our obligations, commitments and covenants of our financing agreement, we may be required to refinance or restructure our indebtedness, raise additional debt or equity capital, sell material assets or operations or delay or forego expansion opportunities, or cease or curtail our quarterly dividends or share repurchase plans. These alternative strategies might not be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all. The terms of our financing agreement impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The terms of our financing agreement impose operating and financial restrictions on us, including, among other things, covenants that require us to maintain a fixed-charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.0 to 1.0 in certain circumstances, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create or allow liens, pay dividends, repurchase stock, engage in mergers, acquisitions or reorganizations or make specified capital expenditures. For example, our ability to engage in the foregoing transactions will depend upon, among other things, our level of indebtedness at the time of the proposed transaction and whether we are in default under our financing agreement. As a result, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy or otherwise benefit us and our stockholders without obtaining consent from our lenders. In addition, our financing agreement is secured by a first priority security interest in our accounts receivable, merchandise inventories, service marks and trademarks and other general intangible assets, including trade names. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our financing agreement would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. Risks Related to Regulatory, Legislative and Legal Matters Current and future government regulation may negatively impact demand for our products and increase our cost of conducting business. The conduct of our business, and the distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local 12 Table of Contents governmental agencies in the United States. These laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy may alter the environment in which we do business and the demand for our products and, therefore, may impact our financial results or increase our liabilities. Some of these laws and regulations include: • laws and regulations governing the manner in which we advertise or sell our products; • laws and regulations that prohibit or limit the sale, in certain localities, of certain products we offer, such as firearms and ammunition; • laws and regulations governing the activities for which we sell products, such as hunting and fishing; • labor and employment laws, such as minimum wage or living wage laws, wage and hour laws and laws requiring mandatory health insurance for employees; and • U.S. customs laws and regulations pertaining to proper item classification, quotas and payment of duties and tariffs. Changes in these and other laws and regulations or additional regulation could cause the demand for and sales of our products to decrease. Moreover, complying with increased or changed regulations could cause our operating expense to increase. This could adversely affect our net sales and profitability. The sale of firearms and ammunition is subject to strict regulation, which could affect our operating results. Because we sell firearms and ammunition, we are required to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the purchase, storage, transfer and sale of firearms and ammunition. These laws and regulations require us, among other things, to ensure that all purchasers of firearms are subjected to a pre-sale background check, to record the details of each firearm sale on appropriate government-issued forms, to record each receipt or transfer of a firearm at our distribution center or any store location on acquisition and disposition records, and to maintain these records for a specified period of time. We also are required to timely respond to traces of firearms by law enforcement agencies. Over the past several years, the purchase and sale of firearms and ammunition has been the subject of increased federal, state and local regulation, and this may continue in our current markets and other markets into which we may expand. If we fail to comply with existing or newly enacted laws and regulations relating to the purchase and sale of firearms and ammunition, our licenses to sell firearms at our stores or maintain inventory of firearms at our distribution center may be suspended or revoked. If this occurs, our net sales and profitability could suffer. Further, complying with increased regulation relating to the sale of firearms and ammunition could cause our operating expense to increase and this could adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to periodic litigation that may adversely affect our business and financial performance, including litigation related to products we sell and employment matters. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business, certain of which may be maintained in jurisdictions with reputations for aggressive application of laws and procedures against corporate defendants. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, these proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that we devote substantial resources to defend against these claims, which could impact our operating results. In particular, we sell products manufactured by third parties, some of which may or may not be defective. Many such products are manufactured overseas, particularly in China, Taiwan and South Korea, which may increase our risk that such products may be defective (such as, for example, in the cases of products recently reported to have high lead content). If any products that we sell were to cause physical injury or injury to property, the injured party or parties could bring claims against us as the retailer of the products based upon strict product liability. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims that could be asserted against us. If a successful claim were brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, it could harm our business. Even 13 Table of Contents unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, our products are subject to the Federal Consumer Product Safety Act, which empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission to protect consumers from hazardous sporting goods and other articles. The Consumer Product Safety Commission has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be hazardous. Similar laws exist in some states and cities in the United States. If we fail to comply with government and industry safety standards, we may be subject to claims, lawsuits, product recalls, fines and negative publicity that could harm our financial condition and operating results. In addition, we sell firearms and ammunition, products associated with an increased risk of injury and related lawsuits. Sales of firearms and ammunition have historically represented less than 5% of our annual net sales. We may incur losses due to lawsuits relating to our performance of background checks on firearms purchases as mandated by state and federal law or the improper use of firearms sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from firearms manufacturers and retailers relating to the misuse of firearms. Commencement of these lawsuits against us could reduce our net sales and decrease our profitability. From time to time we may also be involved in lawsuits related to employment and other matters, including class action lawsuits brought against us for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws. An unfavorable outcome or settlement in any such proceeding could, in addition to requiring us to pay any settlement or judgment amount, increase our operating expense as a consequence of any resulting changes we might be required to make in employment or other business practices. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition; lease accounting; the carrying amount of property and equipment and goodwill; valuation allowances for receivables, sales returns, inventories and deferred income tax assets; estimates related to the valuation of stock options; and obligations related to asset retirements, litigation, workers’ compensation and employee benefits are highly complex and may involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Certain Risks Related to Investing in Our Common Stock The declaration of discretionary dividend payments may not continue. We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of us and our stockholders. Our dividend policy may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, the terms of our debt instruments, legal risks, changes in federal income tax law and challenges to our business model. Our dividend policy may change from time to time and we may or may not continue to declare discretionary dividend payments. A change in our dividend policy could have a negative effect on our stock price. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if such change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • a Board of Directors that is classified such that only one-third of directors are elected each year; • authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; 14 Table of Contents • prohibition of stockholder action by written consent and requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporations Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the Board of Directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the transaction may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 