Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant hazards and risks, including those described below. If any of such events should occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and/or results of operations could be materially harmed, and holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil-producing activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Lower prices will also negatively impact the value of our proved reserves. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. We May Be Affected by General Economic Conditions The disruption experienced in U.S. and global financial and credit markets, and the accompanying economic contraction, during second half of 2008 and continuing through 2009 has resulted in projected decreases in demand for oil and natural gas, resulting in a sharp drop in energy prices, and has affected the availability and cost of capital. Prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. At this time, it is unclear whether and to what extent the actions taken by the U.S. government and other measures currently being implemented or contemplated, will mitigate the effects of the crisis. With respect to Houston American Energy, while we have no immediate need to access the credit markets in the foreseeable future, the impact of the current crisis on our ability to obtain financing in the future, if needed, and the cost and terms of same, is unclear. From an operating standpoint, the crisis experienced during the 2008-2009 period resulted in a steep decline in the price of oil and natural gas, a marked decline in the value of our reserves, a determination in March 2009 to temporarily shut-in production from our Colombian wells and reduced revenues and profitability. While prices have recovered a portion of their decline and stabilized, continued weakness and uncertainty in U.S. and global markets may result in deterioration in commodity prices and in our financial position. A substantial percentage of our properties are undeveloped; therefore the risk associated with our success is greater than would be the case if the majority of our properties were categorized as proved developed producing. Because a substantial percentage of our properties are unproven or proved undeveloped, we will require significant additional capital to prove and develop such properties before they may become productive. At December 31, 2009, approximately 73.5% of our proved reserves were undeveloped. Further, because of the inherent uncertainties associated with drilling for oil and gas, some of these properties may never be developed to the extent that they result in positive cash flow. Even if we are successful in our development efforts, it could take several years for a significant portion of our undeveloped properties to be converted to positive cash flow. While our current business plan is to fund the development costs with funds on hand, including funds received from our 2009 offering of common stock, and cash flow from our other producing properties, if such funds are not sufficient, we may be forced to seek alternative sources for cash, through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities, borrowings or other means. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Please read “Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate” (below) for a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • title problems; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially negatively impacting the trading value of our securities. Accounting rules require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we have and may be required to further write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down could constitute a non-cash charge to earnings. It is likely the cumulative effect of a write-down could also negatively impact the trading price of our securities. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves reported. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, revisions to prior estimates resulted in significant negative revisions to our proved reserves in 2008 and positive revisions in 2009. Negative revisions during fiscal year 2008 amounted to 86.2% of prior year-end proved gas reserves and 83.4% of prior year-end proved oil reserves. Positive revisions during fiscal year 2009 amounted to 46.8% of prior year-end gas reserves and 8.2% of prior year-end proved oil reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves, as reported from time to time, is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on costs on the date of the estimate and average prices over the preceding twelve months. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If future prices decline or costs increase it could negatively impact our ability to finance operations, and individual properties could cease being commercially viable, affecting our decision to continue operations on producing properties or to attempt to develop properties. All of these factors would have a negative impact on earnings and net income, and most likely the trading price of our securities. We are dependent upon third party operators of our oil and gas properties. Under the terms of the Operating Agreements related to our oil and gas properties, third parties act as the operator of our oil and gas wells and control the drilling and operating activities to be conducted on our properties. Therefore, we have limited control over certain decisions related to activities on our properties, which could affect our results of operations. Decisions over which we have limited control include: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the timing of initiating the drilling and recompleting of wells; • the extent of operating costs; and • the level of ongoing production. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are properties on which we have identified what we believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of oil or natural gas. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. This risk may be enhanced in our situation, due to the fact that a significant percentage of our reserves are currently proved undeveloped. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to our company. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, then it could adversely affect us. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • reports concerning operations; • the spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; and • taxation. Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with the environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations or the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition as well as the industry in general. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Obama Administration has proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In late September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” or “ACESA,” which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide and methane. ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major sources of greenhouse gas emissions so that such sources could continue to emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and the Obama Administration has indicated its support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of bills currently pending before the Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Our operations in Colombia are subject to risks relating to political and economic instability. We currently have interests in multiple oil and gas concessions in Colombia and anticipate that operations in Colombia will constitute a substantial element of our strategy going forward. The political climate in Colombia is unstable and could be subject to radical change over a very short period of time. In the event of a significant negative change in the political or economic climate in Colombia, we may be forced to abandon or suspend our operations in Colombia. A 40-year armed conflict between government forces and anti-government insurgent groups and illegal paramilitary groups—both funded by the drug trade—continues in Colombia. Insurgents continue to attack civilians and violent guerilla activity continues in many parts of the country. While our operators take measures to protect our assets, operations and personnel from guerilla activity, continuing attempts to reduce or prevent guerilla activity may not be successful and guerilla activity may disrupt our operations in the future. There can also be no assurance that we can maintain the safety of our operations and personnel in Colombia or that this violence will not affect our operations in the future. Continued or heightened security concerns in Colombia could also result in a significant loss to us. Additionally, Colombia is among several nations whose eligibility to receive foreign aid from the United States is dependent on its progress in stemming the production and transit of illegal drugs, 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements which is subject to an annual review by the President of the United States. Although Colombia is currently eligible for such aid, Colombia may not remain eligible in the future. A finding by the President that Colombia has failed demonstrably to meet its obligations under international counternarcotics agreements may result in any of the following: • all bilateral aid, except anti-narcotics and humanitarian aid, would be suspended; • the Export-Import Bank of the United States and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation would not approve financing for new projects in Colombia; • United States representatives at multilateral lending institutions would be required to vote against all loan requests from Colombia, although such votes would not constitute vetoes; and • the President of the United States and Congress would retain the right to apply future trade sanctions. Each of these consequences could result in adverse economic consequences in Colombia and could further heighten the political and economic risks associated with our operations there. Any changes in the holders of significant government offices could have adverse consequences on our relationship with ANH and Ecopetrol and the Colombian government’s ability to control guerrilla activities and could exacerbate the factors relating to our foreign operations. Any sanctions imposed on Colombia by the United States government could threaten our ability to obtain necessary financing to develop the Colombian properties or cause Colombia to retaliate against us, including by nationalizing our Colombian assets. Accordingly, the imposition of the foregoing economic and trade sanctions on Colombia would likely result in a substantial loss and a decrease in the price of our common stock. The United States may impose sanctions on Colombia in the future, and we cannot predict the effect in Colombia that these sanctions might cause. Our operations in Colombia are controlled by operators which may carry out transactions affecting our Colombian assets and operations without our consent. Our operations in Colombia are subject to a substantial degree of control by the operators of the properties in which we hold interests in Colombia. We are an investor in Hupecol and our interest in the assets and operations of Hupecol represent a substantial portion of our assets and operations in Colombia and are our principal assets and operations. During 2008, Hupecol sold its interest in the Caracara Association Contract, the largest single prospect in terms of reserves and revenues in which we then held an interest. Also, during 2008, Hupecol acquired an interest in the La Cuerva Contract. In early March 2009, Hupecol determined to temporarily shut-in production from our Colombian properties and, in the fourth quarter of 2009, Hupecol commenced efforts to sell certain concessions in Colombia. It is possible that Hupecol will carry out similar sales or acquisitions of prospects or make similar decisions in the future. Our management intends to closely monitor the nature and progress of future transactions by Hupecol in order to protect our interests. However, we have no effective ability to alter or prevent a transaction and are unable to predict whether or not any such transactions will in fact occur or the nature or timing of any such transaction. In addition to Hupecol’s control of decisions regarding properties operated by Hupecol in Colombia, as minority owners, we are subject to substantial control of other properties in Colombia in which we hold interests that are operated by SK Energy and Shona Energy. Our Colombian assets consist exclusively of minority, non-operator project interests in certain Colombian assets owned and operated by Hupecol, LLC, a 25% non-operated working interest in certain Colombian assets owned and operated by SK Energy Co. LTD and a 12.5% non-operated working interest in certain Colombian assets owned and operated by Shona Energy Ltd. Our passive investments in such Colombian assets constitute our principal assets, and as a result, our financial results are directly affected by the independent strategies and decisions of Hupecol, SK Energy and Shona Energy. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and, therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. If we are unable to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production, our cash flow and income will decline as production declines, until our existing properties would be incapable of sustaining commercial production. Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our success will depend on our ability to retain John F. Terwilliger, our principal executive officer, and James Jacobs, our chief financial officer, and to attract other experienced management and non-management employees, including engineers, geoscientists and other technical and professional staff. We will depend, to a large extent, on the efforts, technical expertise and continued employment of such personnel and members of our management team. If members of our management team should resign or we are unable to attract the necessary personnel, our business operations could be adversely affected. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations. As the price of oil and natural gas increases, the demand for production equipment and personnel will likely also increase, potentially resulting, at least in the near-term, in shortages of equipment and personnel. In addition, larger producers may be more likely to secure access to such equipment by virtue of offering drilling companies more lucrative terms. If we are unable to acquire access to such resources, or can obtain access only at higher prices, not only would this potentially delay our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow, but could also significantly increase the cost of producing those reserves, thereby negatively impacting anticipated net income. If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may operate in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil or natural gas have several adverse affects, including higher transportation costs, fewer 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. We may need additional financing to support operations and future capital commitments. While we presently believe that our operating cash flows and funds on hand, including funds provided by our 2009 common stock offering, will support our ongoing operations and anticipated future capital requirements, a number of factors could result in our needing additional financing, including reductions in oil and natural gas prices, declines in production, unexpected developments in operations that could decrease our revenues, increase our costs or require additional capital contributions and commitments to new acquisition or drilling programs. In particular, given our recent commitments to participate in additional properties operated by Hupecol and our agreements to participate in the development of additional prospects in Colombia operated by Shona Energy and SK Energy, we may be subject to substantially greater calls for commitments to provide capital to support development of our additional interests. We have no commitments to provide any additional financing, if needed, and may be limited in our ability to obtain the capital necessary to support operations, complete development, exploitation and exploration programs or carry out new acquisition or drilling programs. We have not thoroughly investigated whether this capital would be available, who would provide it, and on what terms. If we are unable, on acceptable terms, to raise the required capital, our business may be seriously harmed or even terminated. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. The price of our common stock constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • announcements by us, our partners or our competitors of leasing and drilling activities; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • changes in general conditions in our industry and in the economy, the financial markets and the domestic or international political situation; • fluctuations in oil and gas prices; • departures of key personnel; and • regulatory considerations. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may affect our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or equity-related securities in the public market or privately, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Delaware corporate law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company or our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions without the concurrence of our management or board of directors. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors, without stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • provide for a staggered board of directors and three-year terms for directors, so that no more than one-third of our directors could be replaced at any annual meeting; • provide that directors may be removed only for cause; and • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could also delay or prevent a change of control. Taken together, these provisions of our charter, bylaws, and Delaware law may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices of our common stock and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our management owns a significant amount of our common stock, giving them influence or control in corporate transactions and other matters, and their interests could differ from those of other shareholders. At March 24, 2010, our directors and executive officers owned approximately 42% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our current directors and executive officers are in a position to significantly influence or control the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of any amendment to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Such level of control of the company may delay or prevent a change of control on terms favorable to the other shareholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 