Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this annual report. Our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed if any of these risks materialize. The trading price of our common stock may also decline due to any of these risks. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate in future periods, and the Company may fail to meet investor expectations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. If quarterly revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors, the price of our common stock 10 Table of Contents could decline significantly. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in revenue and operating results include the following: • changes in demand for the Company’s products and services, and the ability to obtain the required resources to satisfy customer demand on a cost-effective basis or even to attain the required resources at all; • ability to develop, introduce, market and gain market acceptance of new products or services in a timely manner; • ability to manage inventories, accounts receivable and cash flows; • ability to control costs; and • overall market conditions. The amount of expenses incurred depends, in part, on expectation regarding future revenue. In addition, since many expenses are fixed in the short term, we cannot significantly reduce expenses if there is a decline in revenue to avoid losses. Our operating results could deteriorate if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. Our ability to manage our inventories properly is an important factor in our operations. Inventory shortages can adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish sales. Conversely, excess inventories can result in lower gross margins due to excessive reserves for obsolete products. Our products require incorporation of a wide range of materials which we typically buy in bulk prior to receiving customer orders for the full amount. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in inventory. This approach tends to increase the risk of obsolescence for products we hold in inventory and may compound the difficulties posed by other factors that affect our inventory levels which we have experienced, including the following: • the need to maintain significant inventory of materials that are in limited supply; • the unpredictable demand for products; and • customer requests for quick delivery schedules. The accumulation of excess or obsolete inventory may result in increased inventory reserves, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may need additional capital. In order to conduct operations and remain competitive, we must make investments in research and development to fund new product initiatives, continue to upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities, and actively seek out potential acquisition candidates. Although we believe that internal cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital and normal operating requirements during the next fiscal year, we may not be able to fund our planned research and development, capital investment programs, and potential acquisitions without seeking additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on a variety of factors, some of which may not be within our control, including investor perceptions of our management, our business, and the industries in which we operate. In June 2007, we entered into a $10.0 million senior secured credit facility with Merrill Lynch Capital, now GE Capital, which had no balance outstanding as of September 30, 2009 and was terminated during October 2009. We cannot assure you that cash generated from operations will be sufficient to conduct operations. In such event, we may need to raise additional capital. The turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or cease operations has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. If we raise additional capital through 11 Table of Contents borrowings, we may become subject to restrictive covenants and high interest rates, which would increase the total cost of conducting operations. However, there can be no assurance that financial resources will be available promptly, on favorable terms or at all. If we raise money through the issuance of equity securities, your stock ownership will be diluted. Given the instability in the overall financial markets, our stock price has fluctuated and has been subject to volatility. As a result, a decline in the price of our common stock may adversely impact our ability to fund our operations through the issuance of equity securities. The issuance of additional equity securities by us following a decline in our stock price may result in a significant dilution of your stock ownership. Any inability to successfully raise needed capital on a timely or cost-effective basis could adversely affect our short-term liquidity and ability to make investment in research and development to fund new product initiatives, continue to upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities, and actively seek out potential acquisition candidates and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We depend on contracts with government agencies, which if terminated or reduced, would have a material adverse effect on our business. A large percentage of our revenue is derived from sales to government agencies. Such government agencies may be subject to budget cuts, budgetary constraints or a reduction or discontinuation of funding. A significant reduction in funds available for government agencies to purchase professional services and related products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We derive a substantial amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. Although we provide products and services to many customers, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from a few of our larger customers. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, our top five customers accounted for 41% of our revenue from operations. It is not possible for us to predict the future level of demand for our products and services that will be generated by these customers or the future demand for the products in the end-user marketplace. Our customer concentration exposes us to the risk of changes in the business condition of any of our major customers and to the risk that the loss of a major customer would materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our relationship with these customers is subject to change. An interruption in the supply of diagnostic and therapeutic products at competitive prices that we purchase from third parties could cause a decline in our revenue. We purchase certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in the manufacturing of our products, and the loss of, or disruption to, any plant or supplier could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell many of our products from third parties. We may experience an interruption of supply if a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our time, quantity and quality requirements. There are relatively few alternative suppliers for some of these raw materials and components. Any or all of these suppliers could discontinue manufacturing or supplying these products and components, experience interruptions in their operations or raise their prices. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in production delays and increased costs and limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify alternative sources of supply, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs, increased prices for our products and lost product revenue. In addition, we compete with large companies as well as smaller, independent plasma collection centers and brokers of plasma products for plasma source material and processing. We may be unable to realize our growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities in the future or if we cannot integrate acquired businesses or technologies into our business. As part of our business strategy, we expect to grow our business through acquisitions of technologies or companies. We may not identify or complete complementary acquisitions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all. In addition, we compete with other companies, including large, well-funded 12 Table of Contents competitors, to acquire suitable targets, and may not be able to acquire certain targets that we seek. There can be no assurance that we will be able to execute this component of our growth strategy, which may harm our business and hinder our future growth. To achieve desired growth rates as we become larger, we may seek larger and/or public companies as potential acquisition candidates. The acquisition of a public company may involve additional risks, including the potential for lack of recourse against public shareholders for undisclosed material liabilities of the acquired business. In addition, if we were to proceed with one or more significant future acquisitions in which the consideration consisted of cash, a substantial portion of our available cash resources could be used. Furthermore, for any such acquisition, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including expenses associated with a change of control. If an acquisition was not completed for any reason, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the anticipated benefits of the pending acquisition, including anticipated net reductions in costs and expenses and our stock price may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed. Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of these acquisitions, we cannot predict whether and to what extent such benefits will be achieved. Working through integration issues is complex, time-consuming and expensive and could significantly disrupt our business. There are significant challenges to integrating the acquired operations into our business, including: • successfully managing and assimilating the operations, facilities and technology of the acquired businesses; • maintaining and increasing the customer base for the acquired products; • demonstrating to customers and suppliers that the acquisitions will not result in adverse changes in service standards or business focus; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; • maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, integrating cultures and management structures and accurately forecasting employee benefit costs; • consolidating our management information, inventory, accounting and other systems; • our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; • the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve identified financial and operating synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition; • increased pressure on our staff and on our operating systems; and • unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business. Our failure to successfully integrate and operate the acquired businesses, and to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, could adversely impact our operating performance and financial results. Our success depends in large part upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees, including certain sales, consulting and technical personnel. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate the qualified personnel that will be essential to our current plans and future development. The competition for such personnel is substantial and we cannot assure you that we will successfully retain our key employees or attract and retain any required additional personnel. The loss of the services of any significant employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the past, employees have resigned from the Company and joined competitors or formed competing companies. The loss of such personnel and the resulting loss of existing or potential clients to any such competitor has had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may face additional expenses and cash funding needs pending the sale of our manufacturing facility in West Bridgewater, Massachusetts. Although we have entered into an agreement to sell the West Bridgewater facility, the sale is subject to customary closing conditions and we can not assure that the sale will close. Should the sale not close, it may take months and possibly a year or longer to sell the West Bridgewater facility at a suitable price. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell the property for the price or on the terms set by us or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of the property. In February 2011, the mortgage note on the building matures and the remaining principal of $1.1 million will become due. If we are unable to sell the property before February 2011 or refinance the mortgage note, it could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. Lack of early success with our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers can shut us out of future business with those customers. Many of the products we sell to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers are incorporated into the customers’ drug manufacturing processes. In some cases, once a customer chooses a particular product for use in a diagnostic and therapeutic testing process or drug manufacturing process, it is less likely that the customer will later switch to a competing alternative. In many cases, the regulatory license for the product will specify the separation and cell culture supplement products qualified for use in the process. Obtaining the regulatory approvals needed for a change in the manufacturing process is time consuming, expensive and uncertain. Accordingly, if we fail to convince a diagnostic or therapeutic customer to choose our products early in its manufacturing design phase, we may permanently lose the opportunity to participate in the customer’s production of such product. Because we face vigorous competition in this market from companies with substantial financial and technical resources, we run the risk that our competitors will win significant early business with a customer making it difficult for us to recover that opportunity. Our profits will likely decline if we are unable to pass price increases on to customers or obtain necessary raw materials at their current prices. Some of our customer contracts are firm, fixed price contracts, providing for a predetermined fixed price for the products that we make, regardless of the costs we incur. If we experience significant increases in the expense of producing products due to increased cost of materials, components, labor, capital equipment or other factors and are unable to pass through such increases to our customers, our profitability will likely decline. The cost of producing the Company’s products and services is also sensitive to the price of energy. The selling prices of the Company’s products and services have not always increased in response to raw material, energy or other cost increases and the Company is unable to determine to what extent, if any, it will be able to pass future cost increases through to its customers. The Company’s inability to pass increased costs through to its customers could materially and adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. Our failure to improve our product offerings and develop and introduce new products may negatively impact our business. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to improve our product offerings and develop and introduce new product lines and extensions that integrate new technological advances. If we are unable to integrate technological advances into our product offerings or to design, develop, manufacture and market new product lines and extensions successfully and in a timely manner, our operating results will be adversely affected. While we expect to continue to invest in research and development for all of our market segments, we cannot assure you that our product and process development efforts will be successful or that new products we introduce will achieve market acceptance. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to the risks associated with international sales. International sales accounted for 20% of our revenue from operations during the year ended September 30, 2009. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue. Risks associated with these sales include: • political and economic instability; • export controls; • changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • United States and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products; and • changes in tax laws and tariffs. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We sell our products in certain international markets mainly through independent distributors. If a distributor fails to meet annual sales goals, it may be difficult and costly to locate an acceptable substitute distributor. If a change in our distributors becomes necessary, we may experience increased costs, as well as a substantial disruption in operations and a resulting loss of revenue. If we fail to maintain adequate quality standards for our products and services, our business may be adversely affected and our reputation harmed. Our customers are subject to rigorous quality standards in order to maintain their products and the manufacturing processes and testing methods that generate them. A failure to sustain the specified quality requirements, including the processing and testing functions performed by our products, could result in the loss of the applicable regulatory license. Delays or quality lapses in our customers’ production lines could result in substantial economic losses to them and to us. For example, large production lots of plasma are expensive and a failure to properly categorize the disease state of plasma could result in the contamination of the entire lot, requiring its destruction. We also perform services that may be considered an extension of our customers’ manufacturing and quality assurance processes, which also require the maintenance of prescribed levels of quality. Although we believe that our continued focus on quality throughout the Company adequately addresses these risks, there can be no assurance that we will not experience occasional or systemic quality lapses in our manufacturing and service operations. If we experience significant or prolonged quality problems, our business and reputation may be harmed, which may result in the loss of customers, our inability to participate in future customer product opportunities and reduced revenue and earnings. Our principal shareholders may exert significant influence on us. As of September 30, 2009, the combined group of Jacob Safier and Ltova Holdings LLC (collectively “Ltova”), Ashford Capital Management Inc. (“Ashford Capital”) and Black Horse Capital were beneficial owners of approximately 21%, 14% and 6%, respectively, of the Company’s common stock. Therefore, Ltova, Ashford Capital and Black Horse Capital have power to exert significant influence on our management and policies and on the outcome of issues requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of our Board of Directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. We heavily rely on air cargo carriers and other third party package delivery services, and a significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to import or export materials, increase our costs and lower our profitability. We ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery companies. In addition, we transport materials among our facilities and import raw materials from worldwide sources. Consequently, we heavily rely on air cargo carriers and third party package delivery providers. If any of our key third party package delivery providers experiences a significant disruption such that any of our 15 Table of Contents products, components or raw materials cannot be delivered in a timely fashion or such that we incur additional shipping costs that we could not pass on to our customers, our costs may increase and our relationships with certain of our customers may be adversely affected. In particular, our products are particularly sensitive to temperature and delays in shipping could damage the products. In addition, if our third party package delivery providers increase prices and we are not able to find comparable alternatives or make adjustments to our delivery network, our profitability could be adversely affected. We have limited manufacturing capabilities, and if our manufacturing capabilities are insufficient to produce an adequate supply of products at appropriate quality levels, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently have limited resources and facilities for the commercial manufacturing of sufficient quantities of product to meet expected demand. We have focused significant effort on continual improvement programs in our manufacturing operations intended to improve quality, yields and throughput. Although we believe we currently have sufficient capacity in manufacturing to enable us to supply adequate amounts of product to support our commercialization efforts, there can be no assurances that supply will not be constrained going forward. If we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated growth, or if we underestimate growth, we may not have the capability to satisfy market demand and our business will suffer. The cost of compliance or failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may adversely affect our business. As a public reporting company, we are subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which may result in higher compliance costs and may adversely affect our financial results and our ability to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors or qualified executive officers. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act affects corporate governance, securities disclosure, compliance practices, internal audits, disclosure controls and procedures, and financial reporting and accounting systems. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for example, requires a company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries’ internal controls over financial reporting. The failure to comply with Section 404 may result in investors losing confidence in the reliability of our financial statements (which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock), prevent us from providing the required financial information in a timely manner (which could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the trading price of our common stock), prevent us from otherwise complying with the standards applicable to us as a public company and subject us to adverse regulatory consequences. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could prevent us from selling our products and hinder our financial performance. The technology and designs underlying our products may not be fully protected by patent rights. Our future success is dependent primarily on non-patented trade secrets and on the innovative skills, technological expertise and management abilities of our employees. Our technology may not preclude or inhibit competitors from producing products that have identical performance as our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any protected trade secret could ultimately be proven valid if challenged. Any such challenge, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert the attention and resources of our management and, if successful, require us to pay monetary damages. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer and marketer of various diagnostic and therapeutic products, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the performance, quality or safety of our products. Even though we believe that our current product liability insurance is sufficient at this time, product liability claims challenging performance, quality or safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a particular 16 Table of Contents product, which could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be true even if the claims themselves are proven not to be true or settled for immaterial amounts. Foreign restrictions on importation and exportation of blood derivatives. Concern over blood safety has led to movements in a number of European and other countries to restrict the importation and exportation of blood and blood derivatives, including antibodies collected outside the countries’ borders or, in the case of certain European countries, outside Europe. To date, these efforts have not led to any meaningful restriction on the importation or exportation of blood or blood derivates and have not adversely affected our business. Such restrictions, however, continue to be debated, and there can be no assurance that such restrictions will not be imposed in the future. If imposed, such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. A disaster at our facilities could substantially impact our business. Our business and operations depend on the extent to which our facilities and products are protected against damage from fire, earthquakes, power loss and similar events. Despite precautions we have taken, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem could, among other things, hinder our research and development efforts, delay the shipment of our products and affect our ability to receive and fulfill orders. For example, our two facilities in Maryland store approximately 20 million biological samples for our government and commercial customers, and such samples are irreplaceable. Additionally, our Milford facility is our primary manufacturing plant. Although we believe that our back-up power sources are sufficient in an emergency situation, an earthquake, fire, other disaster or continuous power outage at any of these locations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that our insurance coverage is comparable to those of similar companies in our industry, it does not cover terrorism or all natural disasters, in particular, floods. Our financial condition could suffer if we experience unanticipated costs or enforcement action as a result of the Department of Justice investigation and other lawsuits. The Company is still subject to an investigation by the Department of Justice that was initiated in the first half of 2006 while the Company was under prior management. The period of time necessary to resolve such investigation is uncertain and these matters could require significant management time and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. If we are subject to an adverse finding resulting from the investigation, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us. In addition, considerable legal and accounting expenses related to this matter have been incurred to date and significant expenditures may continue to be incurred in the future. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Reduced demand due to economic downturn in overall market. Our business is exposed to the risk that adverse economic conditions will reduce or defer the demand for research and development that utilize our products. The demand for our products may fluctuate based upon a variety of factors, including the business and financial condition of our customers and on economic and financial conditions, particularly as they affect the key sectors in which our customers operate. Economic downturns or unfavorable changes in the financial and credit markets could have an adverse effect on the operations, budgets and overall financial condition of our customers. As a result, our customers may reduce their overall spending on research and development, purchase fewer of our products by reducing the amount they use or using their existing inventory, lengthen sales cycles, or delay, defer or cancel purchases of our products. Furthermore, our customers may be less able to timely finance or pay for the products which they have purchased. We cannot predict the impact, timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, generally or in any specific industry, or of any disruptions in the financial and credit markets. If the challenges in the financial and credit markets or the downturn in the economy or the 17 Table of Contents markets in which we operate persist or worsen from present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The industries and market segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively with larger companies with greater financial resources than we have. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive and often lack significant barriers to entry, enabling new businesses to enter these markets relatively easily. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, making them better equipped to license technologies and intellectual property from third parties or to fund research and development, manufacturing and marketing efforts. Moreover, competitive conditions in many markets in which we operate restrict our ability to implement price increases to fully recover any higher costs of acquired goods and services resulting from inflation and other drivers of cost increases. Our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. Although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, maintaining these advantages will require us to continue to invest in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. Competition for customers depends primarily on the ability to provide products or services of the quality and in the quantity required by customers. If we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, we will compete with many other companies that may have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our failure to provide products of the quality and quantity demanded by our customers and successfully market new products could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operation. Certain of our disease state products are derived from donors with rare characteristics, resulting in increased competition for such donors. If we are unable to maintain and expand our donor base, this could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to significant regulation by the government and other regulatory authorities. Our business is heavily regulated in the United States and internationally. In addition to the FDA which regulates, among other matters, the testing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, export, and marketing of blood products and IVD products, various other federal, state and local regulations also apply and can be, in some cases, more restrictive. If we fail to comply with FDA or other regulatory requirements, we could be subjected to civil and criminal penalties, or even required to suspend or cease operations. Any such actions could severely curtail our sales to biologics companies. Failure of our plasma suppliers or customers to comply with FDA requirements could also adversely affect us. In addition, more restrictive laws, regulations or interpretations could be adopted, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business. We also invest significant resources in developing quality assurance programs, such as ISO certification. We devote substantial resources to complying with laws and regulations; however, the possibility cannot be eliminated that interpretations of existing laws and regulations will result in findings that we have not complied with significant existing regulations. Such a finding could materially harm the business. Moreover, healthcare reform is continually under consideration by regulators, and the Company does not know how laws and regulations will change in the future. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act, may result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. The Company is subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees. All of the Company’s laboratories are subject to applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal of all laboratory 18 Table of Contents specimens, and we utilize outside vendors for disposal of such specimens. In addition, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens, such as HIV and HBV. These requirements, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal agencies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to comply with all applicable standards or that violations will not occur. Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations could subject the Company to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions which would have a material adverse effect on its business. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on the Company which may be costly. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that more restrictive laws, rules and regulations or enforcement policies will not be adopted in the future which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business or prospects. Changes in demand for plasma-derived products and the availability of donated plasma could affect profitability. A majority of our business depends on the availability of donated plasma. Only a small percentage of the population donates plasma and regulations intended to reduce the risk of introducing infectious diseases in the blood supply have decreased the pool of potential donors. If the level of donor participation declines, the Company may not be able to obtain adequate supply at a reasonable cost to maintain profitability in plasma-derived products. We are subject to governmental reforms and the adequacy of reimbursement. Our products and services are primarily intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently being used in the United States. In recent years, the healthcare industry has changed significantly in an effort to reduce costs. These changes include increased use of managed care, cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels, consolidation of pharmaceutical and medical-surgical supply distributors, and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. We expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these changes, such as adverse changes in government funding of healthcare services, legislation or regulations governing the privacy of patient information, or the delivery or pricing of pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to greatly reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. The Obama administration has identified healthcare as a policy priority and has released an outline of its healthcare policy initiatives as they relate to the 2010 federal budget. The outline identifies guiding principles for healthcare reform and spending, which include increasing access to and affordability of healthcare, primarily by ensuring access to health insurance, increasing effectiveness of care, through effective use of technology and an emphasis on evidence-based medicine, maintaining patient choice, emphasizing preventive care and enhancing the fiscal sustainability of the U.S. healthcare system. Specific initiatives described in the outline include reducing drug costs for federal programs by increasing availability of generics and increasing the Medicaid rebates payable by manufacturers to states, increasing incentives to reduce unnecessary variability in treatment and to practice evidence-based medicine, incentivizing the use of electronic medical records and other technology, and reducing unnecessary or wasteful spending. Currently, the matter of healthcare reform continues to be debated by lawmakers and we are unable to provide guidance on what the final legislation will be and how it will impact us. Additional regulation and continued fiscal pressure may adversely affect our business. 19 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Our stock could be delisted if our stock price falls below $1.00. Our Common Stock is traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Although we are currently in compliance with all applicable NASDAQ Capital Market requirements, if we fail to continue to meet all applicable NASDAQ Capital Market requirements, our stock could be delisted by The NASDAQ Capital Market. Under NASDAQ rules, our stock price must remain at or above $1.00 per share price for continued listing under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a). Delisting would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our business. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. Our stock price could be volatile. The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may be more volatile in the future. Factors such as the announcements of government regulation, new products or services introduced by the Company or by the competition, healthcare legislation, trends in health insurance, litigation, fluctuations in operating results and market conditions for healthcare stocks in general could have a significant impact on the future price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The generally low volume of trading in our common stock makes it more vulnerable to rapid changes in price in response to market conditions. We may issue preferred stock in the future. We have authorized in our Certificate of Incorporation the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors may, without further action by our shareholders, issue preferred stock in one or more series. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation and conversion and redemption rights. Although we have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock or to create new series of preferred stock, if we do issue preferred stock, it could affect the rights, or even reduce the value, of our common stock. Anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects and may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that might be considered in the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions, among other things: • eliminate cumulative voting rights; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock having such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, without any vote or further action by our shareholders; and • eliminate the right of shareholders to act by written consent. Lack of dividend payments. The Company intends to retain any future earnings for use in its business and therefore does not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any cash dividends in the future will depend on the Company’s earnings, financial condition, capital needs and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company’s credit agreement prohibited the payment of dividends during the term of the agreement. The Company terminated the agreement during October 2009. 20 Table of Contents Our shareholders’ ability to sell shares of the Company’s stock may be limited. Four of our shareholders, Ltova, Ashford Capital, Black Horse Capital and T. Rowe Price Associates (“T. Rowe Price”), collectively, are owners of approximately 46% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, we have a very limited number of shares in our public float, and as a result, there could be extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock and the ability to buy and sell our shares could be impaired. If any or all of Ltova, Ashford Capital, Black Horse Capital or T. Rowe Price were to liquidate their shares, the market price could decline significantly. Additional risk factors In addition to the foregoing risk factors, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed by additional factors, including but not limited to the following: • our ability to maintain favorable supplier agreements and relationships with major customers and suppliers; • the loss of any significant customers or reduced orders from significant customers; • our ability to maintain and expand our customer base; • increased competition for donors, which may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified donors; • our ability to meet future customer demand for plasma products; and • changes in industry trends, customer specifications and demand, market demand in general and potential foreign restrictions of the importation of our products. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 