Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered carefully when evaluating us and our business. The factors described below may not be the only risks the Company faces. Additional risks that the Company does not yet perceive or that the Company currently believes are immaterial may also adversely affect the Company’s business and the trading price of the Company’s securities. Our business is principally focused on the health care industry, and factors that adversely affect the financial condition of the health care industry could consequently affect our business. We derive substantially all of our revenue from members in the health care industry. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations depend upon conditions affecting the health care industry generally and hospitals and health systems particularly. Our ability to grow will depend upon the economic environment of the health care industry generally as well as our ability to increase the number of programs and services that we sell to our members. The health care industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. There are many factors that could affect the purchasing practices, operations and, ultimately, the operating funds of health care organizations, such as reimbursement policies for health care expenses, consolidation in the health care industry, and regulation, litigation, and general economic conditions. In particular, changes in regulations affecting the health care industry, such as any increased regulation by governmental agencies of the purchase and sale of medical products, changes to HIPAA and other federal or state privacy laws, laws relating to the tax-exempt status of many of our members, or restrictions on permissible discounts and other financial arrangements, could require us to make unplanned modifications of our products and services, or result in delays or cancellations of orders or reduce funds and demand for our products and services. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. health care system at both the federal and state level. These programs and plans may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in health care, create a universal health care system, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise significantly change the environment in which health care industry providers currently operate. We do not know what effect any proposals would have on our business. If we are unable to sustain high renewal rates on our memberships, our revenue and results of operations may suffer. We derive most of our revenue from renewable memberships in our discrete annual programs. Our prospects therefore depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on existing programs and to enter into new membership arrangements. Failure to achieve high renewal rates would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our success in securing renewals depends upon the continuity of our principal contacts at a member organization, our members’ budgetary environment and our ability to deliver consistent, reliable, high-quality and timely research, tools and analysis with respect to issues, developments and trends that members view as important. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain the level of performance necessary to achieve a high rate of renewals and, as a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or even maintain our revenue. If we are unable to maintain our reputation and expand our name recognition, we may have difficulty attracting new business and retaining current members and employees. As a provider of best practices research, analysis, executive education, installation support and decision support tools, we believe our professional reputation is an important factor in attracting and retaining our members and in building relationships with the progressive health care and education organizations that supply many of the best practices we feature in our research. We believe that establishing and maintaining a good reputation and name recognition are critical for attracting and retaining members and employees in our industry. If our reputation is damaged or if potential members are not familiar with us or with the solutions we provide, we may be unable to attract new, or retain existing, members and employees. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide effective solutions. Our brand name and reputation will suffer if members do not perceive our solutions to be effective or of high quality. In addition, if solutions we provide have inaccuracies or defects, we could suffer adverse publicity as well as economic liability. If we are not able to offer new and valuable products and services, we may not remain competitive and our revenue and results of operations may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to develop new products and services that serve specific constituencies, to anticipate changing market trends and to adapt our research, tools and analysis to meet the changing needs of our members. We may not be able to provide helpful and timely research and analysis of developments and trends in a manner that meets market needs. Any such failure also could cause some of our existing products and services to become obsolete, particularly in the health care industry where there are frequent and rapidly evolving industry standards, the introduction of new and the obsolescence of old technology, changing payment systems and regulatory requirements, shifting strategies and market positions of major industry participants, and changing objectives and expectations of health care consumers. This environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our members with current and timely research, analysis, decision support tools, and installation support around issues and topics of importance. As a result, we must continue to invest resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that members and potential members will want. Many of our client relationships are non-exclusive or terminable on short notice, or otherwise terminable after a specified term. If our new or modified product and service innovations are not responsive to user preferences or industry or regulatory changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing members and be unable to obtain new members and our results of operations may suffer. 11 Future competition may adversely affect our business. We compete in discrete programs and for discretionary dollars against both health care-focused, higher education-focused and multi-industry business services firms. These include consulting and strategy firms; market research, data, benchmarking and forecasting providers; technology vendors and services firms; technology advisory firms; and specialized providers of educational and training services. Other entities, such as state and national trade associations, group purchasing organizations, non-profit think-tanks and database companies, may also offer research, consulting, tools and education services to health care and education organizations. A failure to adequately track, understand or address competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, as part of a collaboration agreement between us and The Corporate Executive Board Company, through at least February 5, 2011, The Corporate Executive Board Company is generally prohibited from selling certain membership-based best practice research products and services to health care providers and education organizations. Upon expiration of the collaboration agreement’s noncompetition obligations, The Corporate Executive Board Company may sell membership-based best practices research programs in direct competition with some of our discrete programs. Direct competition with The Corporate Executive Board Company in these programs may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to hire, train, motivate, manage and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees. Our future success depends upon our ability to hire, train, motivate, manage and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees, particularly research analysts, technical experts and sales and marketing staff. This could hinder our ability to implement tools and complete existing client engagements and bid for new ones, or continue to provide high-quality research and other products and services to our members. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition for professional personnel from management consulting firms and other producers of research, technology and analysis services. Hiring, training, motivating, managing and retaining employees with the skills we need is time consuming and expensive. We may experience significant delays in generating, or an inability to generate, revenue if potential members take a long time to evaluate our products and services. A key element of our strategy is to market our products and services directly to health care providers, such as health systems and acute care hospitals, education institutions, such as colleges and research universities, to increase the number of our products and services utilized by existing members. We do not control many of the factors that will influence the decisions of these organizations regarding the purchase of our products and services. The evaluation process can sometimes be lengthy and could involve significant technical evaluation and commitment of personnel by these organizations. The use of our products and services may also be delayed due to reluctance to change or modify existing procedures. If we are unable to sell additional products and services to existing hospital, health system and education members, or enter into and maintain favorable relationships with other large health care providers or education organizations, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. 12 Unsuccessful implementation of our installation support programs may harm our future financial success. Eight of our programs offer support to help accelerate the installation of best practices profiled in our research studies. Some of these programs are complex, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of failure by us or by the member to meet respective implementation responsibilities. If the member implementation process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, our relationships with some of our members and our results of operations may be impacted negatively. In addition, cancellation of any implementation of our products and services after it has begun may involve loss to us of time, effort and resources invested in the cancelled implementation as well as lost opportunity for acquiring other members over that same period of time. These memberships are not individually renewable. In order to maintain our annual revenue and contract value from these programs, we will have to enroll new members each year as other members complete their program terms. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in selling these programs in the future. Lack of continued market acceptance of these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be liable to our members and may lose members if we are unable to collect member data or lose member data. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage from our members and other third parties and the increasing use of technology in our programs, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our processes or systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our members regard as significant. Furthermore, our ability to collect and report data may be interrupted or limited by a number of factors, including the failure of our network, software systems or decision support tools, security breaches, or the terms of our members’ contracts with their third party suppliers. In addition, computer viruses may harm our systems causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. In addition to potential liability, if we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store, supply, utilize and report information, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose members. Factors, including those beyond our control, could cause interruptions in our operations and may adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and our financial condition and results of operations. The timely development, implementation and continuous and uninterrupted performance of our decision support tools, hardware, network, applications, the Internet and other systems, including those which may be provided by third parties, are important facets in our delivery of products and services to our members. Our ability to protect these processes and systems against unexpected adverse events is a key factor in continuing to offer our members our full complement of products and services on time in an uninterrupted manner. System failures that interrupt our ability to develop or provide our products and services could affect our members’ perception of the value of our products and services. Delays or interruptions in the delivery of our products and services could result from unknown data, software, or hardware defects, insufficient capacity or the failure of our website hosting and telecommunications vendors to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on third party vendors to provide members with access to certain of our products and services. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption from a variety of sources, many of which are not within our control, such as (1) power loss and telecommunications failures, (2) software and hardware errors, failures, defects or crashes, (3) computer viruses and similar disruptive problems, (4) fire, flood and other natural disasters, (5) attacks on our network or damage to our decision support tools, software and systems carried out by hackers or Internet criminals, and (6) performance of third party vendors. Any significant interruptions in our products and services could damage our reputation and have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be harmed if we are no longer able to license and integrate third party technologies. We depend upon licenses from third party vendors for some of the technology and data used in our decision support tools, and for some of the technology platforms upon which these tools operate. We also use third party software to maintain and enhance, among other things, content generation and delivery, and to support our technology infrastructure. These technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual agreement and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay our ability to provide services until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our third party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses to compete directly with us. Our use of third party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated procurement and maintenance costs. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions. 13 Potential liability claims may adversely affect our business. Our services, which involve recommendations and advice to organizations regarding complex business and operational processes, regulatory and compliance issues and labor practices, may give rise to liability claims by our members or by third parties who bring claims against our members. Health care and education organizations often are the subject of regulatory scrutiny and litigation, and we cannot assure you that we would not also be the subject of such litigation based on our advice and services. Any such litigation, whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, may adversely affect our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we would have adequate insurance coverage for claims against us. If the protection of our intellectual property is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and we may lose our competitive advantage. Our success as a company depends in part upon our ability to protect our core intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as customary contractual protections with employees, contractors, members and partners. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our rights or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in any such litigation. Our financial condition and results of operations could be impacted negatively if we lose our competitive advantage because others were able to use our intellectual property. If we are alleged to have infringed on the proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated costs and be prevented from providing our products and services. While we do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties, we cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted against us or that those claims will be unsuccessful. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our members, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources and attention in defending the claim. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. In addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. In addition, our contracts with members of some of our programs contain indemnity provisions whereby we indemnify them against certain losses that may arise from third party claims that are brought in connection with the use of our products. Unauthorized disclosure or a breach of our security could subject us to liability, and members could be deterred from using our services. Our business relies on technology, including the Internet, to transmit and store confidential information. Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information provided to us by our members or third parties, whether through breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. If there were a disclosure of confidential information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the confidential information we possess, our operations could be seriously disrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to claims pursuant to our agreements with our members or other liabilities. In addition, if this were to occur, we may also be subject to regulatory action. We devote significant financial and other resources to protect against security breaches and to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Any such perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of the information we collect or breach of our security could harm our business. Our information services and data suppliers might restrict our use of or refuse to license content and data, which could lead to our inability to provide certain products or services. A portion of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third parties or is obtained from our members for use in connection with products and services we provide to them. We believe that we have all rights necessary to use the data that is incorporated into our products and services. However, in the future, data providers could withdraw their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, or if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data, or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of the data that we currently use in our products and services. If a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw their data, our ability to provide products and services to our members could be materially adversely impacted. Lack of detailed written contracts could impair our ability to recognize revenue for services performed, collect fees, protect our intellectual property and protect ourselves from liability to others. Consistent with what we believe to be industry practice, we sometimes provide services to members on the basis of a limited statement of work or verbal agreements before finalizing or in lieu of a more detailed written contract. Revenue is not recognized on a project prior to receiving a signed contract. To the extent that we fail to have sufficiently detailed written contracts in place, our ability to collect fees, protect our intellectual property and protect ourselves from liability to others may be impaired. We may be exposed to loss of revenue resulting from our unconditional service guarantee. We offer an unconditional service guarantee in a majority of our membership programs. At any time, a member who has a guarantee may request a refund of its membership fee. Refunds are provided on a pro rata basis relative to the remaining term of the membership. Requests for refunds of membership fees by a significant number of our members could lower revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may pursue acquisition opportunities, which could subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We evaluate on an ongoing basis potential acquisitions of complementary business and may from time to time pursue acquisition opportunities. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities and consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. We anticipate that we may finance acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. Acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: 14 • diverting management’s attention; • incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities, known and unknown, including liabilities relating to the use of intellectual property we acquire; • incurring significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; • experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or impairment of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; • failing to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • entering new markets or marketing new products with which we are not entirely familiar; and • failing to retain key personnel of, vendors to and clients of the acquired businesses. If we are unable to address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than on our primary product and service offerings. We may not be able to fully realize our deferred tax asset. For tax purposes, we have deferred income taxes consisting primarily of net operating loss carry forwards and federal and state income tax carry forwards. If our future taxable income is less than what we believe it will be, we may not be able to fully realize our deferred tax asset. In estimating future tax consequences, we do not consider the effect of future changes in existing tax laws or rates in the determination and evaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities until the new tax laws or rates are enacted. We have established our deferred income tax assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax laws and rates, including the estimated effects of our status as a Qualified High Technology Company (“QHTC”) status on our Washington, D.C. deferred tax assets. We will recognize an adjustment to income for the impact of new tax laws or rates on the existing deferred tax assets and liabilities when and if new tax laws or rates are enacted. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may have a particular negative impact on the market price of our common stock in light of our relatively low average daily trading volume and number of large stockholders. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to the factors described above and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and do not necessarily reflect our financial condition or operating results, including: • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rates or financial performance, or those of our competitors or of companies with similar business models; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the Commissions and announcements of new products or services by us or by our competitors or companies with similar business models; • legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; • general economic, industry and market conditions, particularly those conditions specific to the health care industry; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. 15 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 