ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Government Funding and Regulation of Public Education Most of our revenues depend on per pupil funding amounts remaining near the levels existing at the time we execute service agreements with the virtual public schools we serve. If those funding levels are materially reduced due to economic conditions or political opposition, new restrictions adopted or payments delayed, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. The public schools we contract with are financed with government funding from federal, state and local taxpayers. Our business is primarily dependent upon those funds. Budget appropriations for education at all levels of government are determined through the political process, which may also be affected by conditions in the economy at large, such as the current severe recession in the U.S. that began in 2008. As a result, funding for the virtual public schools we serve may decline. The political process and general economic conditions create a number of risks that could have an adverse affect on our business including the following: • legislative proposals can and have resulted in budget or program cuts for public education, including the virtual public schools we serve, and therefore have reduced and could potentially eliminate the products and services those schools purchase from us, causing our revenues to decline. From time to time, proposals are introduced in state legislatures that single out virtual public schools for disparate treatment. For example, in 2009, legislation was introduced in Ohio that would have curtailed for-profit companies from managing charter schools and reduced funding for virtual charter schools by as much as 70 percent. This legislation did not survive a House-Senate conference and funding for the Ohio Virtual Academy was not significantly affected. Other examples include laws that decrease per pupil funding for virtual public schools or alter eligibility and attendance criteria or other funding conditions that could decrease our revenues and limit our ability to grow; Economic conditions could reduce state education funding for all public schools, and could be disproportionate for the virtual public schools we serve. For example, while budget and funding decisions normally occur on an annual or bi-annual basis, the current economic recession has caused a departure from the normal process in some states. During our fiscal year 2009, several states enacted mid-year funding cuts for public education, affecting the virtual public schools we serve. In addition, we are aware of state budget appropriations involving funding reductions for public education that will affect some of the virtual public schools we serve for the 2009-10 school year. • as a public company, we are required to file periodic financial and other disclosure reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. This information may be referenced in the legislative process, including budgetary considerations, related to the funding of alternative public school options, including virtual public schools. The disclosure of this information by a for-profit education company, regardless of parent satisfaction and student academic achievement, may nonetheless be used by opponents of virtual public schools to propose funding reductions; and • from time to time, government funding to schools is not provided when due, which sometimes causes the affected schools to delay or cease payments to us for our products and services. These payment delays have occurred in the past and can deprive us of significant working capital until the matter is resolved, which could hinder our ability to implement our growth strategies and conduct our business. Most recently, in 2009 the Pennsylvania Department of Education has withheld monthly payments for the Agora Cyber Charter School for products and services we provided as a subcontractor due to the PDE’s investigation of the Agora Board of Trustees’ compliance with its charter, even though the PDE had no complaints against us. 24 Table of Contents The poor performance or misconduct of other virtual public school operators could tarnish the reputation of all virtual public school operators, which could have a negative impact on our business. As a relatively new form of public education, virtual school operators will be subject to scrutiny, perhaps even greater than that applied to traditional public schools or charter schools. Not all virtual public school operators will have successful academic programs or operate efficiently, and new entrants may not perform well either. Such underperforming operators could create the impression that virtual schooling is not an effective way to educate students, whether or not our learning system achieves solid performance. Moreover, some virtual school operators have been subject to governmental investigations alleging the misuse of public funds or financial irregularities. These allegations have attracted significant adverse media coverage and have prompted legislative hearings and regulatory responses. Although these investigations have focused on specific companies and individuals, they may negatively impact public perceptions of virtual public school providers generally, including us. The precise impact of these negative public perceptions on our business is difficult to discern, in part because of the number of states in which we operate and the range of particular malfeasance or performance issues involved. We have incurred significant lobbying costs in several states advocating against harmful legislation which, in our opinion, was aggravated by negative media coverage of particular virtual school operators. If these few situations, or any additional misconduct, cause all virtual public school providers to be viewed by the public and/or policymakers unfavorably, we may find it difficult to enter into or renew contracts to operate virtual schools. In addition, this perception could serve as the impetus for more restrictive legislation, which could limit our future business opportunities. Opponents of virtual public schools have sought to challenge the establishment and expansion of such schools through the judicial process. If these interests prevail, it could damage our ability to sustain or grow our current business or expand in certain jurisdictions. We have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to lawsuits filed against virtual public schools by those who do not share our belief in the value of this form of public education. Legal claims have involved challenges to the constitutionality of authorizing statutes, methods of instructional delivery, funding provisions and the respective roles of parents and teachers. For example, in Illinois v. Chicago Virtual Charter School, 06 CH 20955 (Cook County) (July 11, 2009), the Chicago Teacher’s Union and other plaintiffs’ claimed that the instructional model of the Chicago Virtual Charter School violated the prohibition against home-based charter schools under Illinois law.. The Court did not agree and dismissed the claims on summary judgment. The failure of the virtual public schools we serve to comply with applicable government regulations could result in a loss of funding and an obligation to repay funds previously received, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Once authorized by law, virtual public schools are generally subject to extensive regulation. These regulations cover specific program standards and financial requirements including, but not limited to: (i) student eligibility standards; (ii) numeric and geographic limitations on enrollments; (iii) prescribed teacher funding allocations from per pupil revenue; (iv) state-specific curriculum requirements; and (v) restrictions on open-enrollment policies by and among districts. State and federal funding authorities conduct regular program and financial audits of virtual public schools, including the virtual public schools we serve, to ensure compliance with applicable regulations. If a virtual public school we serve is found to be noncompliant, it can be barred from receiving additional funds and could be required to repay funds received during the period of non-compliance, which could impair that school’s ability to pay us for services in a timely manner, if at all. Additionally, the indemnity provisions in our standard service agreements with virtual public schools may require us to return any contested funds on behalf of the school. Virtual public schools are relatively new, and enabling legislation therefore is often ambiguous and subject to discrepancies in interpretation by regulatory authorities, which may lead to disputes over our ability to invoice and receive payments for services rendered. Statutory language providing for virtual public schools is sometimes interpreted by regulatory authorities in ways that may vary from year to year, making compliance subject to uncertainty. More issues normally arise during our first few school years of doing business in a state because the enabling legislation often does not address specific 25 Table of Contents issues, such as what constitutes proper documentation for enrollment eligibility in a virtual school. We normally work through these issues and come to an agreement with the regulatory authorities on these details, although from time to time, there are changes to the regulators’ approach to determining the eligibility of virtual school students for funding purposes. Another example may be differing interpretations on what constitutes a student’s substantial completion of a semester in a public school. These regulatory uncertainties may lead to disputes over our ability to invoice and receive payments for services rendered, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of virtual public schools depends on the maintenance of the authorizing charter and compliance with applicable laws. If these charters are not renewed, our contracts with these schools would be terminated. In many cases, virtual public schools operate under a charter that is granted by a state or local authority to the charter holder, such as a community group or an established not-for-profit corporation, which typically is required by state law to qualify for student funding. In fiscal year 2009, approximately 88% of our revenues were derived from virtual public schools operating under a charter. The service agreement for these schools is with the charter holder or the charter board. Non-profit charter schools qualifying for exemption from federal taxation under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) as charitable organizations must also operate in accordance with Internal Revenue Service rules and policies to maintain that status and their funding eligibility. In addition, all state charter school statutes require periodic reauthorization. While none of the virtual public schools we serve have failed to maintain their authorizing charter, if a virtual public school we serve fails to maintain its tax-exempt status and funding eligibility, or if its charter is revoked for non-performance or other reasons that may be due to actions of the independent charter board completely outside of our control, our contract with that school would be terminated. For example, in July 2009, the Pennsylvania Department of Education instituted charter revocation proceedings against the Agora Cyber Charter School based on allegations of charter violations and non-compliance with state charter school and other laws by the independent charter board, even though the PDE had no complaints against us. Actual or alleged misconduct by our senior management and directors would make it more difficult for us to enter into new contracts or renew existing contracts. If any of our directors, officers or key employees are accused or found to be guilty of serious crimes, including the mismanagement of public funds, the schools we serve could be barred from entering into or renewing service agreements with us or otherwise discouraged from contracting with us and, as a result, our business and revenues would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have a limited operating history, and sustained cumulative net losses of approximately $90 million before only recently achieving profitability. If we fail to remain profitable or achieve further marketplace acceptance for our products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The virtual public schools we serve began enrolling students in the 2001-02 school year. As a result, we have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Since our inception, we recorded cumulative net losses totaling approximately $90 million until we achieved profitability in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2006. There can be no assurance that we will remain profitable, or that our products and services will achieve further marketplace acceptance. Our marketing efforts may not generate a sufficient number of student enrollments to sustain our business plan; our capital and operating costs may exceed planned levels; and we may be unable to develop and enhance our service offerings to meet the demands of virtual public schools and students to the extent that such demands and preferences change. For example, the current recession in the U.S. economy has led to lower tax revenues and reductions in state educational budgets which may negatively impact a virtual charter school’s offerings and student enrollments. If we are not successful in managing our business and operations, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Highly qualified teachers are critical to the success of our learning system. If we are not able to continue to recruit, train and retain quality certified teachers, our curriculum might not be effectively delivered to students, compromising their academic performance and our reputation with the virtual public schools we serve. As a result, our brand, business and operating results may be adversely affected. Effective teachers are critical to maintaining the quality of our learning system and assisting students with their daily lessons. Teachers in virtual public schools must be state certified and have strong interpersonal communications skills to be able to effectively instruct students in a virtual school setting. They must also possess the technical skills to use our technology-based learning system. There is a limited pool of teachers with these specialized attributes and the virtual public schools we serve must provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain such qualified teachers. The teachers in most virtual public schools we serve are not our employees and the ultimate authority relating to those teachers resides with the governing body overseeing the schools. However, under many of our service agreements with virtual public schools, we have responsibility to recruit, train and manage these teachers. We must also provide continuous training to virtual public school teachers so that they can stay abreast of changes in student demands, academic standards and other key trends necessary to teach online effectively. We may not be able to recruit, train and retain enough qualified teachers to keep pace with our growth while maintaining consistent teaching quality in the various virtual public schools we serve. Shortages of qualified teachers or decreases in the quality of our instruction, whether actual or perceived, would have an adverse effect on our business. The schools we contract with and serve are governed by independent governing bodies who may shift their priorities or change objectives in ways adverse to us. We contract with and provide a majority of our products and services to virtual public schools governed by independent boards or similar governing bodies. While we typically share a common objective at the outset of our business relationship, over time our interests could diverge. If these independent boards of the schools we serve subsequently shift their priorities or change objectives, and as a result reduce the scope or terminate their relationship with us, our ability to generate revenues would be adversely affected. Our contracts with the virtual public schools we serve are subject to periodic renewal, and each year several of these agreements are set to expire. If we are unable to renew several such contracts or if a single significant contract expires during a given year, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. We have contracts to provide our full range of products and services to virtual public schools in 23 states and the District of Columbia. Several of these contracts are scheduled to expire in any given year. For example, four such contracts are scheduled to expire in fiscal year 2010, and we usually begin to engage in renewal negotiations during the final year of these contracts. In order to renew these contracts, we have to enter into negotiations with the independent boards of these virtual public schools. Historically we have been successful in renewing these contracts, but such renewals typically contain revised terms, which may be more or less favorable then the terms of the original contract. For example, a school in Pennsylvania reduced the term of its contract from five years to three years when renewing its contract in 2006, but when renewing again in 2009, extended the term to 10 years. Similarly, a school in Colorado increased the term of its contract from five years to 10 years upon renewal in 2009. While we have no reason to believe that schools with valid charters will not continue to renew their contracts upon expiration, we recognize that each renegotiation is unique and, if we are unable to renew several such contracts or one significant contract expiring during a given year, or if such renewals have significantly less favorable terms than existing contracts, or an underlying charter is revoked or not renewed, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents We generate significant revenues from two virtual public schools, and the termination, revocation, expiration or modification of our contracts with these virtual public schools could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In fiscal year 2009, we derived more than 10% of our revenues from each of the Ohio Virtual Academy and the Agora Cyber Charter School in Pennsylvania. In aggregate, these schools accounted for 28% of our total revenues. If our contracts with any of these virtual public schools are terminated, the charters to operate any of these schools are not renewed or are revoked, enrollments decline substantially, funding is reduced, or more restrictive legislation is enacted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If student performance falls, NCLB standards are not achieved, or parent and student satisfaction declines, a significant number of students may not remain enrolled in a virtual public school that we serve, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The success of our business depends on a family’s decision to have their child continue his or her education in a virtual public school that we serve. This decision is based on many factors, including student achievement and parent and student satisfaction. Students may perform significantly below state averages or the virtual school may fail to meet the standards of the No Child Left Behind Act (“NCLB”). Not all of the virtual public schools we serve meet the Adequate Yearly Progress requirements of NCLB, as large numbers of new enrollments from students underperforming in traditional schools can drag down overall results or the underperformance of any one subgroup can lead to the entire school failing to achieve Adequate Yearly Progress. We expect that, as our enrollments increase and the portion of students that have not used our learning system for multiple years increases, the average performance of all students using our learning system may decrease, even if the individual performance of other students improves over time. Moreover, Congress may amend the NCLB statute in ways that positively or negatively impact the schools we serve. Finally, parent and student satisfaction may decline as not all parents and students are able to devote the substantial time and energy necessary to complete our curriculum. A student’s satisfaction may also suffer if his or her relationship with the virtual school teacher does not meet expectations. If a student’s performance or satisfaction declines, students may decide not to remain enrolled in a virtual public school that we serve and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may not be able to effectively address the execution risks associated with our expansion into the virtual high school market. Our failure to do so could substantially harm our growth strategy. Our continued expansion into virtual high schools presents us with a number of challenges and an evolving array of risks that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth strategy. We have recently developed and are continuing to develop new proprietary high school curriculum, and we are currently using third-party platforms and some third-party curriculum in our high school offering. If the quality of our newly developed proprietary curriculum, third-party curriculum or platforms is unsatisfactory, student enrollments could decline. In addition, our inability to scale high school operations or achieve productivity improvements could reduce our operating margins. Our growth strategy anticipates that we will create new products and distribution channels, expand existing distribution channels and pilot innovative educational programs to enhance academic performance. If we are unable to effectively manage these initiatives or they fail to gain acceptance, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. As we create new products and distribution channels, expand our existing distribution channels and pilot new educational programs, we expect to face challenges distinct from those we currently encounter, including: • our development of public hybrid schools, which will produce different operational challenges than those we currently encounter. In addition to the online component, hybrid schools may require us to lease facilities for classrooms, staff classrooms with teachers, provide meals, adhere to local safety and fire codes, purchase additional insurance and fulfill many other responsibilities; • our further expansion into international markets may require us to conduct our business differently than we do in the United States or in existing countries. For example, we may attempt to establish a traditional brick 28 Table of Contents and mortar school. Additionally, we may have difficulty training and retaining qualified teachers or generating sufficient demand for our products and services in international markets. International opportunities will also produce different operational, tax and currency challenges than those we currently encounter; • our use of our curriculum in classrooms will produce challenges with respect to adapting our curriculum for effective use in a traditional classroom setting; and • our continual efforts to innovate and pilot new programs to enhance student learning may not always succeed or may encounter unanticipated opposition, such as what we experienced in 2008 in connection with a limited pilot to outsource essay reviews overseas, which the Company thereafter discontinued. Our failure to manage these new distribution channels, or any new distribution channels we pursue, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increasing competition in the market segments that we serve could lead to pricing pressures, reduced operating margins, loss of market share, departure of key employees and increased capital expenditures. We face varying degrees of competition from several discrete education providers because our learning system integrates all the elements of the education development and delivery process, including curriculum development, textbook publishing, teacher training and support, lesson planning, testing and assessment, and school performance and compliance management. We compete most directly with companies that provide online curriculum and support services to K-12 virtual public schools. Additionally, we expect increased competition from for-profit post-secondary and supplementary education providers that have begun to offer virtual high school curriculum and services. In certain jurisdictions and states where we currently serve virtual public schools, we expect intense competition from existing providers and new entrants. Our competitors may adopt similar curriculum delivery, school support and marketing approaches, with different pricing and service packages that may have greater appeal in the market. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business, win and renew contracts or maintain current levels of academic achievement, our revenue growth and operating margins may decline. Price competition from our current and future competitors could also result in reduced revenues, reduced margins or the failure of our product and service offerings to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance. We may also face direct competition from publishers of traditional educational materials that are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As a result, they may be able to devote more resources to develop products and services that are superior to our platform and technologies. We may not have the resources necessary to acquire or compete with technologies being developed by our competitors, which may render our online delivery format less competitive or obsolete. These new and well-funded entrants may also seek to attract our key executives as employees based on their acquired expertise in virtual education where such specialized skills are not widely available. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with our curriculum and our technology, as well as our ability to increase capital expenditures to sustain the competitive position of our product and retain our talent base. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete effectively. If demand for increased options in public schooling does not continue or if additional jurisdictions do not authorize or adequately fund virtual public schools, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For the 2006-07 school year, we served schools in 17 states. For the 2009-10 school year, we will serve schools in 23 states. If the demand for virtual public schools does not increase, if additional jurisdictions do not authorize new virtual schools or if the funding of such schools is inadequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to the number of months in a fiscal quarter that our virtual public schools are fully operational and serving students. In the typical academic year, our first and fourth fiscal quarters have fewer than three full months of operations, whereas our second and third fiscal quarters will have three complete months of operations. We ship offline learning kits to students in the beginning of the school year, our first fiscal quarter, generally resulting in higher offline learning kit revenues and margins in the first fiscal quarter relative to the other quarters. In aggregate, the seasonality of our revenues has generally produced higher revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year. Our operating expenses are also seasonal. Instructional costs and services increase in the first fiscal quarter primarily due to the costs incurred to ship offline learning kits at the beginning of the school year. These instructional costs may increase significantly quarter-to-quarter as school operating expenses increase. The majority of our selling and marketing expenses are incurred in the first and fourth fiscal quarters, as our primary enrollment season is July through September. We expect quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results to continue. These fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect our cash flow. As our business grows, these seasonal fluctuations may become more pronounced. As a result, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results may not be reliable as an indication of future performance. Our revenues for a fiscal year are based in part on our estimate of the total funds each school will receive in a particular school year and our estimate of the full year deficits to be incurred by each school. As a result, differences between our estimates and the actual funds received and deficits incurred could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We recognize revenues from certain of our fees ratably over the course of our fiscal year. To determine the amount of revenues to recognize, we estimate the total funds each school will receive in a particular school year. Additionally, we take responsibility for any operating deficits at most of the virtual schools we serve. Because these operating deficits may impair our ability to collect the full amount invoiced in a period and collection cannot reasonably be assured, we reduce revenues by the estimated amount of these deficits. We review our estimates of total funds and operating deficits periodically, and we revise as necessary, amortizing any adjustments over the remaining portion of the fiscal year. Actual funding received and operating deficits incurred may vary from our estimates or revisions and could adversely impact our results of operation and cash flows. The continued development of our brand identity is important to our business. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results may suffer. Expanding brand awareness is critical to attracting and retaining students, and for serving additional virtual public schools. In order to expand brand awareness, we intend to spend significant resources on a brand-enhancement strategy, which includes sales and marketing efforts directed to targeted locations as well as the national marketplace, the educational community at large, key political groups, image-makers and the media. We believe that the quality of our curriculum and management services has contributed significantly to the success of our brand. As we continue to increase enrollments and extend our geographic reach, maintaining quality and consistency across all of our services and products may become more difficult to achieve, and any significant and well-publicized failure to maintain this quality and consistency will have a detrimental effect on our brand. We cannot provide assurances that our new sales and marketing efforts will be successful in further promoting our brand in a competitive and cost effective manner. If we are unable to further enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our products and services, or if we incur excessive sales and marketing expenses, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. Our patent, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, domain names and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. For example, we have been granted two patents relating to the hardware and network infrastructure of our online school, including the system components for creating and administering assessment tests and our lesson progress tracker. Additionally, we are the copyright owner of over 14,000 lessons in the courses comprising our proprietary curriculum and we have registered copyrights or filed copyright applications that cover nearly all of these lessons. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible that we may not be able to sufficiently protect some of these innovations. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. This secrecy could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees intentionally or accidentally, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. Third parties may acquire domain names that are substantially similar to our domain names leading to a decrease in the value of our domain names and trademarks and other proprietary rights. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others and such actions would be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability or increase our costs to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the Internet, technology, education, curriculum and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we grow, the likelihood that we may be subject to such claims also increases. Regardless of the merits, intellectual property claims are time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue any of our products, services or practices that are found to be in violation of another party’s rights. We also may have to seek a license and make royalty payments to continue offering our products and services or following such practices, which may significantly increase our operating expenses. We may be subject to legal liability resulting from the actions of third parties, including independent contractors, business partners, or teachers, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and damage our reputation. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to legal claims associated with the actions of or filed by our independent contractors, business partners, or teachers. In the event of accidents or injuries or other harm to students, we could face claims alleging that we were negligent, provided inadequate supervision or were otherwise liable for their injuries. Additionally, we could face claims alleging that our independent curriculum contractors or teachers infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. A liability claim against us or any of our independent contractors, business partners, or teachers could adversely affect our reputation, enrollment and revenues. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could create unfavorable publicity, cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert the time and attention of management. 31 Table of Contents Unauthorized disclosure or manipulation of student, teacher and other sensitive data, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, could expose us to costly litigation or could jeopardize our contracts with virtual public schools. Maintaining our network security and internal controls over access rights is of critical importance because our Student Administration Management System (SAMS) stores proprietary and confidential student and teacher information, such as names, addresses, and other personal information. Individuals and groups may develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or attempt to infiltrate SAMS. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, third parties may receive or be able to access student records and we could be subject to liability or our business could be interrupted. Penetration of our network security could have a negative impact on our reputation and could lead virtual public schools and parents to choose competitive offerings. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to provide additional protection from the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Additionally, we run the risk that employees or vendors could illegally disclose confidential educational information. We rely on the Internet to enroll students and to deliver our products and services to children, which exposes us to a growing number of legal risks and increasing regulation. We collect information regarding students during the online enrollment process, and a significant amount of our curriculum content is delivered over the Internet. As a result, specific federal and state laws that could have an impact on our business include the following: • the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, which restricts the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and imposes additional restrictions on the ability of online companies to collect personal information from children under the age of 13; and • the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, which imposes parental or student consent requirements for specified disclosures of student information, including online information. • The Communications Decency Act, which provides website operators immunity from most claims arising from the publication of third-party content; and • numerous state cyberbullying laws which require schools to adopt policies on harassment through the Internet or other electronic communications. In addition, the laws applicable to the Internet are still developing. These laws impact pricing, advertising, taxation, consumer protection, quality of products and services, and are in a state of change. New laws may also be enacted, which could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us or force us to change our business practices. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our online computer networks could impact our ability to generate revenues and damage our reputation, limiting our ability to attract and retain students. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain virtual public schools, parents and students. Any sustained system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could limit our users’ access to our learning system, and therefore, damage our ability to generate revenues or provide sufficient documentation to comply with state laws requiring proof that students completed the required number of hours of instruction. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. 32 Table of Contents We utilize a single logistics vendor for the management, receiving and shipping of all of our offline learning kits and printed educational materials. In addition, we utilize another vendor for the reclamation and redeployment of our student computers. Both of these partnerships depend upon execution on the part of us and the vendors. Any material failure to execute properly for any reason, including damage or disruption to either of the vendor’s facilities would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of the inventory for our offline learning kits and printed materials is located in one warehouse facility operated by a third-party logistics vendor which handles receipt, assembly, and shipping of all physical learning materials. If this logistics vendor were to fail to meet its obligations to deliver learning materials to students in a timely manner, or if such shipments are incomplete or contain assembly errors, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We contracted with a new materials logistics vendor beginning with the current school year and while the transition has gone smoothly to date, any significant problems with this vendor’s performance would adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we provide computers for a substantial number of our students. Execution failures which interfere with the reclamation or redeployment of computers may result in additional costs. Furthermore, a natural disaster, fire, power interruption, work stoppage or other unanticipated catastrophic event, especially during the period from May through September when we have received most of the curriculum materials for the school year and have not yet shipped such materials to students, could significantly disrupt our ability to deliver our products and operate our business. If any of our material inventory were to experience any significant damage, we would be unable to meet our contractual obligations and our business would suffer. Any significant interruption in the operations of our data center could cause a loss of data and disrupt our ability to manage our network hardware and software and technological infrastructure. We host our products and serve all of our students from a third-party data center facility. While we are developing a risk mitigation plan, such a plan may not be able to prevent a significant interruption in the operation of this facility or the loss of school and operational data due to a natural disaster, fire, power interruption, act of terrorism or other unanticipated catastrophic event. Any significant interruption in the operation of this facility, including an interruption caused by our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or manage our transition to utilizing the expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to manage our network and technological infrastructure, which could result in lost sales, enrollment terminations and impact our brand reputation. Additionally, we do not control the operation of this facility and must rely on a third-party to provide the physical security, facilities management and communications infrastructure services related to our data center. Although we believe we would be able to enter into a similar relationship with another third-party should this relationship fail or terminate for any reason, our reliance on a third-party vendor exposes us to risks outside of our control. If this third-party vendor encounters financial difficulty such as bankruptcy or other events beyond our control that causes it to fail to secure adequately and maintain its hosting facilities or provide the required data communications capacity, students of the virtual public schools we serve may experience interruptions in our service or the loss or theft of important customer data. Any significant interruption in the operations of our call center could disrupt our ability to respond to service requests and process orders and to deliver our products in a timely manner. Our primary call center operations are housed in two facilities, one in Virginia and one through a vendor in Kentucky. We have limited call center operations in Arizona and Utah. While we are developing a risk mitigation plan, such a plan may not be able to prevent a significant interruption in the operation of either facility due to natural disasters, accidents, failures of the inventory locator or automated packing and shipping systems we use or other events. Any significant interruption in the operation of either primary facility, including an interruption caused by our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or to manage these expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to respond to service requests, receive and process orders and provide products and services, which could result in lost and cancelled sales, and damage to our brand reputation. 33 Table of Contents Capacity limits on some of our technology, transaction processing systems and network hardware and software may be difficult to project and we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems in a timely manner to meet significant unexpected increased demand. As the number of virtual public schools we serve increases and our student base grows, the traffic on our transaction processing systems and network hardware and software will rise. We may be unable to accurately project the rate of increase in the use of our transaction processing systems and network hardware and software. In addition, we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems and network hardware and software capabilities to accommodate significant unexpected increased use. If we are unable to appropriately upgrade our systems and network hardware and software in a timely manner, our operations and processes may be temporarily disrupted. We may be unable to manage and adapt to changes in technology. We will need to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to remain competitive. The need to respond to technological changes may require us to make substantial, unanticipated expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to respond successfully to technological change. We may be unable to attract and retain skilled employees. Our success depends in large part on continued employment of senior management and key personnel who can effectively operate our business. If any of these employees leave us and we fail to effectively manage a transition to new personnel, or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and experienced professionals on acceptable terms, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success also depends on our having highly trained financial, technical, recruiting, sales and marketing personnel. We will need to continue to hire additional personnel as our business grows. A shortage in the number of people with these skills or our failure to attract them to our Company could impede our ability to increase revenues from our existing products and services and to launch new product offerings, and would have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth, which could impair our ability to operate profitably. We have experienced significant expansion since our inception, which has sometimes strained our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. A substantial increase in our enrollment or the addition of new schools in a short period of time could strain our current resources and increase capital expenditures, without an immediate increase in revenues. Our failure to successfully manage our growth in a cost efficient manner and add and retain personnel to adequately support our growth could disrupt our business and decrease profitability. We may need additional capital in the future, but there is no assurance that funds will be available on acceptable terms. We may need to raise additional funds in order to achieve growth or fund other business initiatives. This financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. Additionally, any securities issued to raise funds may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to expand, develop or enhance services or products, or respond to competitive pressures will be limited. Our curriculum and approach to instruction may not achieve widespread acceptance, which would limit our growth and profitability. Our curriculum and approach to instruction are based on the structured delivery, clarification, verification and practice of lesson subject matter. The goal of this approach is to make students proficient at the fundamentals and to instill confidence in a subject prior to confronting new and complex concepts. This approach, however, is not accepted by all academics and educators, who may favor less formalistic methods. Accordingly, some academics 34 Table of Contents and educators are opposed to the principles and methodologies associated with our approach to learning, and have the ability to negatively influence the market for our products and services. Although we do not currently transact a material amount of business in a foreign country, we intend to expand into international markets, which will subject us to additional economic, operational, legal and political risks that could increase our costs and make it difficult for us to continue to operate profitably. One of our growth strategies is to pursue international opportunities that leverage our current product and service offerings. The addition of international operations may require significant expenditure of financial and management resources and result in increased administrative and compliance costs. As a result of such expansion, we will be increasingly subject to the risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues and increased operating expenses; • potentially longer payment and sales cycles; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • the effect of applicable foreign tax structures or taxes that may be duplicative of those imposed in the United States, notwithstanding steps taken by the Company to address such matters; • tariffs and trade barriers; • general economic and political conditions in each country; • inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; • uncertainty regarding liability for information retrieved and replicated in foreign countries; • the difficulties and increased expenses in complying with a variety of U.S. and foreign laws, regulations and trade standards, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Treasury regulations; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 