Item 1A. Risk Factors Our ability to achieve our operating and financial goals is subject to a number of risks, including risks relating to our business operations, our debt level and government regulations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business Prior to the Regeneration acquisition, we did not have experience operating in the regeneration segment of the non-operative orthopedic and spine markets. Historically, our principal focus has been the market for orthopedic rehabilitation products. Accordingly, prior to our acquisition of the bone growth stimulation device business from OrthoLogic in November 2003, we did not have any experience operating in the regeneration segment of the non-operative orthopedic and spine markets. The regeneration segment of the non-operative orthopedic and spine markets has different competitive characteristics from those we have experienced in the market for our rehabilitation products and the third-party payor coverage and reimbursement issues are more complex than in our traditional rehabilitation markets. In addition, the products we acquired from OrthoLogic are subject to Class III Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, review. This level of review is more stringent than that required for our rehabilitation products. In addition, we have made significant changes and additions to the sales force for the BGS products as compared to the sales force in place at the time of the Regeneration acquisition. With respect to the OL1000, we have hired and trained a significant number of new sales specialist and introduced the product to our DonJoy direct distribution sales force. At the time of the Regeneration acquisition, DePuy Spine was acting as the exclusive distributor of the SpinaLogic device in significant portions of the U.S. The agreement with DePuy Spine was amended in 2005 to make certain territories non-exclusive and commencing early in 2006, will become a non-exclusive arrangement for the U.S. We have begun developing alternative selling resources for SpinaLogic and will continue that effort, but prior to the Regeneration acquisition, we did not have any relationships with spine surgeons or with independent distributors who specialize in spine products. The different nature of the Regeneration business from our traditional rehabilitation business and the significant changes we have made and will be required to make to the Regeneration sales force could involve risks to our business such as the following: • We may have difficulty training and retaining the number of product specialists we will need to grow the OL1000 and SpinaLogic business. To date, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, relatively high turnover among our Regeneration sales specialists and sales managers, which can lead to disruption of customer relations and increased training time and costs; • In those areas of the country where we will need to supplement the DePuy Spine distributors, we may not be able to develop a network of distributors who can effectively market and sell the SpinaLogic product to spine surgeons; • Our existing customers may not have a need for bone growth stimulation products or may have existing relationships with our competitors for similar products; • Our prior experience in billing Medicare is limited, and we may encounter difficulties in processing the higher level of Medicare claims in the Regeneration business as compared to our other businesses; and • Competitive products or technologies in fracture repair or spinal fusion surgery may undermine our sales and profitability goals. As a result of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in operating in the regeneration segment of the non-operative orthopedic and spine markets. Changes in the regulatory status of our BGS products could adversely affect the operations and financial results of our Regeneration business. Earlier in 2005 a petition was filed with the US Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) seeking to reclassify non-invasive bone growth stimulator devices from Class III to Class II. Although our BGS products that utilize combined magnetic field technology were subsequently excluded from the petition, if the petition were to succeed, new market entrants could seek clearance of a BGS device through the 510(k) process (as opposed to the PMA process). This would likely increase competition 16 from new products in the electrical bone growth stimulation device business which could result in downward price pressures on our products and business. In addition, the medical committee responsible for providing advice on coverage matters to Medicare held a meeting during 2005 for the purpose of, among other things, considering the effectiveness of products such as our BGS products on healing nonunion fractures among the Medicare patient population. We have actively opposed the granting of the petition to the FDA to reclassify BGS products, and we have provided information to the Medicare advisory committee on the clinical data on effectiveness of our BGS products. Although it has not sought to do so, CMS, which is responsible for Medicare coverage determinations, may decide to re-evaluate current coverage policies in a way that restrict payment for our BGS products. We cannot be certain of the outcome of either regulatory matter, and an adverse outcome on either such matter could impact our ability to grow sales and realize profits in our Regeneration business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that other regulatory changes will not be proposed or implemented that adversely impact our Regeneration business. See additional risk factors under the heading “Risks Relating to Government Regulation” below. We intend to pursue, but may not be able to identify, finance or successfully complete, strategic acquisitions. One element of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions, both domestically and, in particular, internationally. We may not be able to identify acceptable opportunities or complete acceptable acquisitions of targets identified in a timely manner. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the following: • Our management’s attention will be diverted from our existing business while evaluating acquisitions and thereafter while integrating the operations and personnel of the new business into our business; • We may experience adverse short-term effects on our operating results; • We may be unable to successfully and rapidly integrate the new businesses, personnel and products with our existing business, including financial reporting, management and information technology systems; • We may experience higher than anticipated costs of integration and unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures; • An acquisition may be in a market or geographical area in which we have little experience; • We may have difficulty in retaining key employees, including employees who may have been instrumental to the success or growth of the acquired business; and • We may use a substantial amount of our cash and other financial resources to consummate an acquisition. In addition, we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and such financing may not be available or on favorable terms, if available at all. We may not be able to successfully integrate or operate profitably any new business we acquire, and we cannot assure you that any such acquisition will meet our expectations. Finally, in the event we decide to discontinue pursuit of a potential acquisition, we will be required to immediately expense all costs incurred in pursuit of the possible acquisition that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the expense is recognized. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our existing infrastructure may become strained, and we may be unable to increase sales of our products or generate revenue growth. The growth that we have experienced, and in the future may experience, may provide challenges to our organization, requiring us to expand our personnel, manufacturing and distribution operations. Future growth may strain our infrastructure, operations, product development and other managerial and operating resources. If our business resources become strained, we may be unable to increase sales of our products or generate revenue growth. We have outsourced certain administrative functions relating to our OfficeCare sales channel to a third-party contractor and this arrangement may not prove successful. Our OfficeCare sales channel maintains an inventory of products (mostly soft goods) on hand at orthopedic practices for immediate distribution to patients. For these products, we arrange billing to a patient or third-party payor after the product is provided to the patient. We outsource the revenue cycle of this program, from billing to collections, to an independent third-party 17 contractor. This provider may not remain successful in achieving or maintaining our billing and collections goals and there can be no assurance that we will not have to resume these administrative functions in the future. We rely on intellectual property to develop and manufacture our products and our business could be adversely affected if and when we lose our intellectual property rights. We hold or license U.S. and foreign patents relating to a number of our components and products and have patent applications pending with respect to other components and products. We also expect to apply for additional patents as we deem appropriate. The U.S. patent for our “Four Points of Leverage” system expired in January 2005. Revenues generated from the sale of products in the U.S. using our “Four Points of Leverage” system represented approximately 14%, 15% and 22% of our historical net revenues for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The majority of our anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, braces, including Defiance, Legend and 4TITUDE, and certain of our osteoarthritic braces use this system. We believe a number of our competitors may introduce ligament braces that incorporate aspects of our “Four Points of Leverage” system now that the patent has expired. In such event, our competitors may be able to sell products that are similar to ours at lower prices than we currently sell our products, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We believe that several of our additional existing patents are, and will continue to be, extremely important to our success. These include the patents relating to our: • knee ligament bracing product lines, including components and features such as frame construction and shape, strap attachment systems, anti-migration padding systems and extreme sport features; • custom contour measuring system, which serves as an integral part of the measurement process for patients ordering our customized ligament and osteoarthritic braces; • series of hinges for our rigid braces, including the FourcePoint™ hinge; • pneumatic pad design and production technologies which utilize air inflatable cushions that allow the patient to vary the location and degree of support provided by braces such as the Defiance knee ligament brace; • osteoarthritic bracing concepts; • ankle bracing, both rigid and soft; • rigid shoulder bracing; and • combined magnetic field technology, which is used in our bone growth stimulation products. However, we cannot assure you that: • our existing or future patents, if any, will afford us adequate protection; • our patent applications will result in issued patents; or • our patents will not be circumvented or invalidated. Our success also depends on non-patented proprietary know-how, trade secrets, processes and other proprietary information. We employ various methods to protect our proprietary information, including confidentiality agreements and proprietary information agreements with vendors, employees, consultants and others who have access to our proprietary information. However, these methods may not provide us with adequate protection. Our proprietary information may become known to, or be independently developed by, competitors, or our proprietary rights in intellectual property may be challenged, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. 18 If we are not able to develop, license or acquire and market new products or product enhancements we may not remain competitive. Our future success and the ability to grow our revenues and earnings require the continued development, licensing or acquisition of new products and the enhancement of our existing products. We may not be able to: • continue to develop or license successful new products and enhance existing products; • obtain required regulatory clearances and approvals for such products; • market such products in a commercially viable manner; or • gain market acceptance for such products. We may be unable to remain competitive if we fail to develop, license or acquire and market new products and product enhancements. In addition, if any of our new or enhanced products contain undetected errors or design defects, especially when first introduced, our ability to market these products could be substantially delayed, resulting in lost revenue, potential damage to our reputation and/or delays in obtaining acceptance of the product by orthopedic and spine surgeons and other healthcare professionals. We rely heavily on our relationships with orthopedic professionals who prescribe and dispense our products and our failure to maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. The sales of our products depend significantly on the prescription or recommendation of such products by orthopedic and spine surgeons and other healthcare professionals. We have developed and maintain close relationships with a number of widely recognized orthopedic surgeons and specialists who support and recommend our products. Failure of our products to retain the support of these surgeons and specialists, or the failure of our products to secure and retain similar support from leading surgeons and specialists, could have an adverse effect on our business. The majority of our sales force consists of independent agents and distributors who maintain close relationships with our hospital and physician customers. Our success also depends largely upon arrangements with independent agents and distributors and their relationships with our hospital and physician customers in the marketplace. These agents and distributors are not our employees, and our ability to influence their actions and performance is limited. Our inability to effectively manage these agents and distributors or our failure generally to maintain relationships with these independent agents and distributors could have an adverse effect on our business. We operate in a very competitive business environment. The non-operative orthopedic and spine markets are highly competitive and fragmented. Our competitors include several large, diversified general orthopedic products companies and numerous smaller niche companies. Some of our competitors are part of corporate groups that have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Accordingly, we may be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to these competitors. In the rehabilitation market, our primary competitors in the rigid knee bracing product line include Orthofix International, N.V., Bledsoe Brace Systems, Ossur hf. and Townsend Industries Inc. Our competitors in the soft goods products market include Aircast Inc., Biomet, Inc., DeRoyal Industries, Ossur hf. and Zimmer Holdings, Inc. Our primary competitors in the pain management products market include Aircast, I-Flow Corp., Orthofix and Stryker Corporation. In the regeneration market, our primary competitors selling bone growth stimulation products approved by the FDA for the treatment of nonunion fractures are Orthofix, Biomet, Inc. and Smith & Nephew. Biomet and Orthofix also sell bone growth stimulation products for use by spinal fusion patients. We estimate that Biomet has dominant shares of the U.S. markets for bone growth stimulation products used both to treat nonunion fractures and as adjunct therapy after spinal fusion surgery. 19 Our quarterly operating results are subject to substantial fluctuations and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future results. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the number of business days in each quarter; • demand for our products, which historically has been higher in the fourth quarter when scholastic sports and ski injuries are more frequent; • our ability to meet the demand for our products; • the direct distribution of our products in foreign countries; • the number, timing and significance of new products and product introductions and enhancements by us and our competitors, including delays in obtaining government review and clearance of medical devices; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; • the impact of any acquisitions that occur in a quarter; • the impact of any changes in generally accepted accounting principles; • changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors and reimbursement rates by third-party payors, including government healthcare agencies and private insurers; • the loss of any of our distributors; • changes in the treatment practices of orthopedic and spine surgeons and their allied healthcare professionals; and • the timing of significant orders and shipments. Accordingly, our quarterly sales and operating results may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We cannot assure you that our sales will increase or be sustained in future periods or that we will be profitable in any future period. Our business plan relies on certain assumptions for the market for our products, which, if incorrect, may adversely affect our profitability. We believe that various demographics and industry specific trends will help drive growth in the rehabilitation and regeneration markets, including: • a growing elderly population with broad medical coverage, increased disposable income and longer life expectancy; • a growing emphasis on physical fitness, leisure sports and conditioning, which has led to increased injuries, especially among women; and • the increasing awareness and use of non-invasive devices for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation purposes. These demographics and trends are beyond our control. The projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect or do not materialize or if alternative treatments to those offered by our products gain widespread acceptance. 20 Our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we become involved in litigation regarding our patents or other intellectual property rights. The orthopedic products industry has experienced extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We or our products may become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or the foreign equivalents thereto to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, USPTO interference proceedings or the foreign equivalents thereto and related legal and administrative proceedings are both costly and time consuming. An adverse determination in litigation or interference proceedings to which we may become a party could: • subject us to significant liabilities to third-parties; • require disputed rights to be licensed from a third-party for royalties that may be substantial; or • require us to cease using such technology. Any one of these outcomes could have an adverse effect on us. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. Accordingly, adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding or our failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, even if we are successful in such litigation, the expense of defending such claims could be material. In addition, we have from time to time needed to, and may in the future need to, litigate to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Such enforcement of our intellectual property rights could involve counterclaims against us. Any future litigation or interference proceedings will result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. We have limited suppliers for some of our components and products which makes us susceptible to supply shortages and could disrupt our operations. Some of our important suppliers are in China and other parts of Asia and provide us predominately finished soft goods products. In fiscal year 2005, we obtained approximately 10% of our total purchased materials from suppliers in China and other parts of Asia. Political and economic instability and changes in government regulations in these areas could affect our ability to continue to receive materials from our suppliers there. The loss of our suppliers in China and other parts of Asia, any other interruption or delay in the supply of our required materials or our inability to obtain these materials at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time could impair our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could hurt our reputation and cause customers to cancel orders. In addition, we purchase the microprocessor used in the OL1000â and SpinaLogic devices from a single manufacturer. Although there are feasible alternate microprocessors that might be used immediately, all are produced by a single supplier. In addition, there are single suppliers for other components used in the OL1000 and SpinaLogic devices and only two suppliers for the magnetic field sensor employed in them. Establishment of additional or replacement suppliers for these components cannot be accomplished quickly. Our international sales and profitability may be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations and other risks. We sell products in foreign currency through our foreign subsidiaries. The U.S. dollar equivalent of international sales denominated in foreign currencies in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003 were favorably impacted by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the foreign currencies of our subsidiaries. The U.S. dollar equivalent of the related costs denominated in these foreign currencies was unfavorably impacted during the same periods. In addition, the costs associated with our Mexico-based manufacturing operations are incurred in Mexican pesos. As we continue to distribute and manufacture our products in selected foreign countries, we expect that future sales and costs associated with our activities in these markets will continue to be denominated in the applicable foreign currencies, which could cause currency fluctuations to materially impact our operating results. We are also subject to other risks inherent in international operations such as political and economic conditions, foreign regulatory requirements, exposure to different legal requirements and standards, exposure to different approaches to treating injuries, potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property, import and export restrictions, increased costs of transportation or 21 shipping, currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, labor disputes, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods and potentially adverse tax consequences. For example, in Germany, our largest foreign market, orthopedic professionals began re-using our bracing devices on multiple patients during 2004, which adversely impacted our sales of these devices in this market in 2004. As we continue to expand our international business, our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. If we are unable to do so, these and other factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations. The direct distribution of our products in selected foreign countries involves financial and operational risks. We have implemented a strategy to selectively replace our third-party international distributors with wholly-owned distributorships. In 2002, we began to distribute our products in Germany/Austria, the United Kingdom and Canada through wholly-owned subsidiaries. We established a wholly-owned distributorship in France in September 2003 and one in the Nordic countries in August 2004. The creation of direct distribution capabilities in foreign markets requires additional financial and operational controls. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully maintain organizational controls in our foreign operations or that our international strategy will result in increased revenues or profitability. Our concentration on manufacturing operations in North America may cause our products to be less competitive in international markets. Other than a relatively small manufacturing operation in Tunisia acquired in the recent Newmed acquisition, we have no manufacturing operations in any foreign country other than Mexico. For our international sales to third-party distributors, the cost of transporting our products to foreign countries is currently borne by our third-party distributors who are also often required to pay foreign import duties on our products. As a result, the cost of our products to our third-party distributors is often greater than products manufactured by our competitors in that country. In addition, foreign manufacturers of competitive products may receive various local tax concessions that lower their overall manufacturing costs. In order to compete successfully in international markets, we may be required to open or expand manufacturing operations abroad, which would be costly to implement and would increase our exposure to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. We may not be able to successfully operate offshore manufacturing operations. Product liability claims may harm our business if our insurance proves inadequate or the number of claims increases significantly. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our technology or products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. We have, from time to time, been subject to product liability claims. In addition, we have operated a Knee Guarantee program since 2001 in relation to our Defiance knee brace. The Knee Guarantee program will, in specified instances, cover a patient’s insurance deductible up to $1,000, or give uninsured patients $1,000, towards surgery should an ACL re-injury occur while wearing the brace. In 2003, the Technology You Can Trust program was introduced in connection with our BGS products. If a patient has a nonunion fracture that fails to heal while using a BGS product, the Technology You Can Trust program will, if the patient meets the specified requirements of the program, refund the costs for treatment using the BGS product. If there is a significant increase in claims under these programs, our business could be adversely affected. We maintain product liability insurance with coverage of an annual aggregate maximum of $20 million. The policy is provided on a claims made basis and is subject to annual renewal. There can be no assurance that liability claims will not exceed the coverage limit of such policy or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we do not or cannot maintain sufficient liability insurance, our ability to market our products may be significantly impaired. We may be adversely affected if we lose the services of any member of our senior management team. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team, who have made significant contributions to our growth and success. Leslie H. Cross, our President and Chief Executive Officer, for example, has worked for us for 16 years and helped lead our 1999 recapitalization and transition from ownership by Smith & Nephew to a stand-alone company. The loss of any one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on us. 22 Any claims relating to our improper handling, storage or disposal of wastes could be time consuming and costly. Our facilities and operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental and occupational health and safety requirements of the United States and foreign countries, including those relating to discharges of substances to the air, water, and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. In the future, federal, state, local or foreign governments could enact new or more stringent laws or issue new or more stringent regulations concerning environmental and worker health and safety matters that could affect our operations. Also, contamination may be found to exist at our current, former or future facilities, including the facility in Tempe, Arizona that we occupied following the Regeneration acquisition, or off-site locations where we have sent wastes. We could be held liable for such contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. In addition, changes in environmental and worker health and safety requirements or liabilities from newly discovered contamination could have a material effect on our business or financial condition. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facilities, we will be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and our sales will decline. Nearly all of our rehabilitation products are manufactured in our new facility in Tijuana, Mexico, with a number of products for the European market manufactured in our recently-acquired Tunisian facility. The products that are still manufactured in Vista, California consist of our custom rigid bracing products, which remain in the U.S. to facilitate quick turn-around on custom orders and the Regeneration product line. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to repair or replace. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. If one of our facilities were affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers or shift production to another manufacturing facility. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Because we have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable could be prevented. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of the board of directors; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • requiring supermajority voting to effect particular amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for the nomination of candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally defined as a person that together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of the corporation’s voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 23 Risks Related to Government Regulation Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or receive regulatory clearance or approval for our products or operations in the United States or abroad would adversely affect our revenues and potential for future growth. Our products are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and by respective authorities in foreign countries where we do business. The FDA regulates virtually all aspects of a medical device’s design and testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, reporting, clearance and approval, promotion and distribution. The FDA also regulates the export of medical devices to foreign countries. Failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. regulatory requirements may subject a company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions ranging from warning letters to criminal penalties or product withdrawal. Unless an exemption applies, a medical device must receive either clearance or premarket approval from the FDA before it can be marketed in the United States. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process for Class II devices usually takes from three to twelve months, but may take significantly longer. The premarket approval process for Class III devices generally takes from one to three years from the time the application is filed with the FDA, but also can be significantly longer. Premarket approval typically requires extensive clinical data and can be significantly longer, more expensive and more uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. Despite the time, effort and expense expended, there can be no assurance that a particular device will be approved or cleared by the FDA through either the 510(k) clearance process or the premarket approval process. Medical devices may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. We may be required to obtain additional new premarket approvals, premarket approval supplements or 510(k) clearances to market additional products or for new indications for or modifications to our existing products. We cannot be certain that we would obtain additional premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances in a timely manner or at all. We have modified various aspects of our devices in the past and we determined that new approvals, supplements or clearances either were not required. The FDA may not agree with our decisions not to seek approvals, supplements or clearances for particular device modifications. If the FDA requires us to obtain premarket approvals, supplement approvals or 510(k) clearances for any modification to a previously cleared or approved device, we may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall such modified device until we obtain FDA clearance or approval and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, there can be no assurance that the FDA will clear or approve such submissions in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to obtain FDA clearance or approvals of new products, new indications or product modifications that we develop in the future, any limitations imposed by the FDA on such products’ development or use, or the costs of obtaining FDA clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business. In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to extensive regulations essentially the same as those of the FDA, including those in Germany, our largest foreign market. The regulation of our products in Europe falls primarily within the European Economic Area, which consists of the fifteen member states of the European Union, as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. The Council of the European Union (formerly the Council of the European Communities) and the Council of the European Parliament have adopted three directives in order to harmonize national provisions regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse event reporting for medical devices to ensure that medical devices marketed are safe and effective for their intended uses. The member states of the European Economic Area have implemented the directives into their respective national law. Medical devices that comply with the conformity requirements of the national provisions and the directives will be entitled to bear a CE marking. Unless an exemption applies, only medical devices which bear a CE marking may be marketed within the European Economic Area. Switzerland also allows the marketing of medical devices that bear a CE marking. Due to the movement towards harmonization of standards in the European Union and the expansion of the European Union, we expect a changing regulatory environment in Europe characterized by a shift from a country-by-country regulatory system to a European Union-wide single regulatory system. Failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications, such as the CE marking, could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. Our products are subject to recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, or after receiving CE-markings, which would harm our reputation and business. We are subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA or governmental authorities in other countries if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacturing, and we have been subject to product recalls in the past. A government mandated, or voluntary, recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall would 24 divert managerial and financial resources and could harm our reputation with customers. There can be no assurance that there will not be product recalls in the future or that such recalls would not have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing could be delayed, and our product sales and profitability could suffer. Our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which covers the procedures concerning (and documentation of) the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our devices. We also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. In addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. Moreover, failure to pass a Quality System Regulation inspection or to comply with these and other applicable regulatory requirements could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays. Failure to take adequate corrective action could result in, among other things, significant fines, suspension of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We have previously received warning letters and untitled letters from the FDA regarding regulatory non-compliance. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other governmental authorities would agree with our interpretation of applicable regulatory requirements or that we have in all instances fully complied with all applicable requirements. Any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. Changes in U.S. reimbursement policies for our products by third-party payors or reductions in reimbursement rates for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our products are sold to healthcare providers and physicians who may receive reimbursement for the cost of our products from private third-party payors and, to a lesser extent, from Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental programs. In certain circumstances, such as for our Regeneration products and the products sold through our OfficeCare program, we submit claims to third-party payors for reimbursement. Our ability to sell our products successfully will depend in part on the purchasing and practice patterns of healthcare providers and physicians, who are influenced by cost containment measures taken by third-party payors. Limitations or reductions in third-party reimbursement for our products can have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Congress and state legislatures consider reforms in the healthcare industry that may modify reimbursement methodologies and practices, including controls on healthcare spending of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. It is not clear at this time what proposals, if any, will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect the proposals would have on our business. Many private health insurance plans model their coverage and reimbursement policies after Medicare policies. Congressional or regulatory measures that reduce Medicare reimbursement rates could cause private health insurance plans to reduce their reimbursement rates for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or cause our orthopedic professional customers to prescribe less expensive products introduced by us and our competitors. With the passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or Modernization Act, a number of changes have been mandated to the Medicare payment methodology and conditions for coverage for our orthotic devices and durable medical equipment, including our bone growth stimulators. These changes include a freeze in reimbursement levels for certain medical devices from 2004 through 2008, competitive bidding requirements, new clinical conditions for payment and quality standards. The changes affect our products generally, although specific products may be affected by some but not all of the Modernization Act’s provisions. Our Class III bone growth stimulator devices, for example, are not affected by the reimbursement level freeze and are not subject to competitive bidding. Off-the-shelf orthotic devices are subject to competitive bidding. Under competitive bidding, which is scheduled to be phased in beginning in 2007, Medicare will change its approach to reimbursing certain items and services covered by Medicare from the current fee schedule amount to an amount established through a bidding process between the government and suppliers. Competitive bidding may reduce the number of suppliers providing certain items and services to Medicare beneficiaries and the amounts paid for such items and services. Also, Medicare payments in regions not subject to competitive bidding may be reduced using payment information from regions subject to competitive bidding. Any payment reductions or the inclusion of certain of our orthotic devices in competitive bidding, in addition to the other changes to Medicare reimbursement and standards contained in the Modernization Act, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, on February 11, 2003, CMS made effective an interim final regulation implementing “inherent reasonableness” authority, which allows adjustments to payment amounts for certain items and services covered by Medicare when the existing payment amount is determined to be grossly excessive or grossly deficient. The regulation lists factors that may be used to determine whether an existing reimbursement rate is grossly excessive or grossly deficient and to determine what is a realistic and equitable payment amount. Also, under the regulation, a payment amount will not be considered grossly excessive or 25 grossly deficient if an overall payment adjustment of less than fifteen percent would be necessary to produce a realistic and equitable payment amount. The Modernization Act clarified that the use of inherent reasonableness authority is precluded for devices provided under competitive bidding. CMS finalized the inherent reasonableness regulation in December 2005, with an effective date of February 10, 2006, essentially keeping in place the policies in the interim final regulation. When using the inherent reasonableness authority, CMS may reduce reimbursement levels for certain items and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that third-party reimbursement for our products will continue to be available or at what rate such products will be reimbursed. Failure by users of our products to obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for our products or adverse changes in governmental and private payors’ policies toward reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in international regulations regarding reimbursement for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Similar to our domestic business, our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for reimbursement through government sponsored healthcare payment systems and third-party payors, the portion of cost subject to reimbursement, and the cost allocation between the patient and government sponsored healthcare payment systems and third-party payors. Reimbursement practices vary significantly by country, with certain countries requiring products to undergo a lengthy regulatory review in order to be eligible for third-party reimbursement. In addition, healthcare cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the United States are prevalent in many of the foreign countries in which our products are sold, and these efforts are expected to continue in the future, possibly resulting in the adoption of more stringent standards. Any developments in our foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products or cause our orthopedic professional customers to use less expensive products in these markets. Medicare laws mandating new supplier quality standards and conditions for coverage could adversely impact our business. Medicare regulations require entities or individuals submitting claims and receiving payment to obtain a supplier number, which in turn is predicated on compliance with a number of supplier standards. Under the Modernization Act, any entity or individual that bills Medicare for durable medical equipment, such as bone growth stimulators, and orthotics and that has a supplier number for submission of such bills will be subject to new quality standards as a condition of receiving payment from the Medicare program. In September 2005, CMS published draft supplier quality standards. The draft standards consist of business-related standards, such as financial and human resources management standards, which would be applicable to all durable medical equipment, orthotics and prosthetics suppliers, and product-specific standards, such as those for customized orthotics products, which focus on product specialization and service standards for such items. CMS has stated that it expects to release the final supplier quality standards in Spring 2006. The Modernization Act also authorizes CMS to establish clinical conditions for payment for durable medical equipment. These new supplier quality standards and clinical conditions for payment could affect our ability to bill Medicare, limit or reduce the number of individuals who can fit, sell or provide our products and could restrict coverage for our products. Healthcare reform, managed care and buying groups have put downward pressure on the prices of our products. The development of managed care programs in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare to a patient population at a fixed cost per person (referred to as capitation) has put pressure on, and is expected to continue to cause, healthcare providers to lower costs. One result has been, and is expected to continue to be, a shift toward lower priced products, and any such shift in our product mix to lower margin, off-the-shelf products could have an adverse impact on our operating results. For example, in our rigid knee-bracing segment, we and many of our competitors are offering lower priced, off-the-shelf products in response to managed care customers. A further result of managed care and the related pressure on costs has been the advent of buying groups in the United States. Such buying groups enter into preferred supplier arrangements with one or more manufacturers of orthopedic or other medical products in return for price discounts. The extent to which such buying groups are able to obtain compliance by their members with such preferred supplier agreements varies considerably depending on the particular buying groups. In response to the organization of new buying groups, we have entered into national contracts with selected groups and believe that the high levels of product sales to such groups and the opportunity for increased market share have the potential to offset the financial impact of discounting. We believe that our ability to maintain our existing arrangements will be important to our future success and the growth of our revenues. In addition, we may not be able to obtain new preferred supplier commitments for major buying groups, in which case we could lose significant potential sales, to the extent these groups are able to command a high level of compliance by their members. On the other hand, if we receive preferred supplier commitments from particular groups which do 26 not deliver high levels of compliance, we may not be able to offset the negative impact of lower per unit prices or lower margins with any increases in unit sales or in market share. In international markets, we have experienced downward pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare reform similar to that which we have experienced in the United States. We expect healthcare reform and managed care to continue to develop in our primary international markets, which we expect will result in further downward pressure in product pricing. The timing and effects on us of healthcare reform and the development of managed care in international markets cannot currently be predicted. Proposed laws that would limit the types of orthopedic professionals who can fit, sell or seek reimbursement for our products could, if adopted, adversely affect our business. In response to pressure from mostly orthopedic practitioners, Congress and state legislatures have from time to time considered proposals that limit the types of orthopedic professionals who can fit or sell our orthotic device products or who can seek reimbursement for them. Several states have adopted legislation which imposes certification or licensing requirements on the measuring, fitting and adjusting of certain orthotic devices. Some of these laws have exemptions for manufacturers’ representatives. Other laws apply to the activities of such representatives. Other states may be considering similar legislation. Such laws could limit our potential customers in those jurisdictions in which such legislation or regulations are enacted by limiting the measuring and fitting of these devices to certain licensed individuals. We may not be successful in opposing their adoption and, therefore, such laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, efforts have been made to establish such requirements at the federal level for the Medicare program. For example, in 2000 Congress passed the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA). BIPA contained a provision requiring as a condition for payment by the Medicare program that certain certification or licensing requirements be met for individuals and suppliers furnishing certain, but not all, custom-fabricated orthotic devices. CMS has not implemented this requirement. We cannot predict the effect of implementation of BIPA or implementation of other such laws will have on our business. We may need to change our business practices to comply with healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs and TRICARE. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that a fraud and abuse law or regulation has been violated. Any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful. Audits or denials of our claims by government agencies could reduce our revenue or profits. As part of our business structure, we submit claims directly to and receive payments directly from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Therefore, we are subject to extensive government regulation, including requirements for maintaining certain documentation to support our claims. Medicare contractors and Medicaid agencies periodically conduct pre- and post-payment review and other audits of claims, and are under increasing pressure to scrutinize more closely healthcare claims and supporting documentation generally. We periodically receive requests for documentation during the governmental audits of individual claims either on a pre-payment or post-payment basis. We cannot assure you that review and/or other audits of our claims will not result in material delays in payment, as well as material recoupments or denials, which could reduce our revenue or profits. 27 Risks Related to our Debt Our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions, which restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations, meet our capital needs or engage in our business activities. Currently, our existing credit agreement restricts our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • issue redeemable equity interests and preferred equity interests; • pay dividends or make distributions, repurchase equity interests or make other restricted payments; • redeem subordinated indebtedness; • create liens; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • make investments; • sell assets; or • enter into mergers or consolidations. With respect to mergers or acquisitions, our credit agreement limits our ability to finance acquisitions through additional borrowings. In addition, our credit agreement prohibits us from acquiring assets or the equity of another company unless: • we are not in default under the credit agreement; • after giving pro forma effect to the transaction, we remain in compliance with the financial covenants contained in the credit agreement; • if the acquisition price is greater than $10 million, the company we are acquiring has positive EBITDA; • the acquisition price is less than $50 million individually and less than $75 million in the aggregate with all other permitted acquisitions consummated during the term of the credit agreement; and • if the acquisition involves assets outside the United States, the acquisition price is less than $25 million in the aggregate with all other permitted acquisitions consummated outside the United States during the term of the agreement. Restrictions contained in our credit agreement could: • limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or other restrictions could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit agreement, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. If the lenders under the credit agreement accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness and our other indebtedness. 28 We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, which could require us to reduce our expenditures, sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital. We may not have sufficient cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will depend upon, among other things: • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and • the future availability of borrowings under our revolving credit facility or any successor facility, the availability of which depends or may depend on, among other things, our complying with covenants in the credit agreement. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions, investments, strategic alliances and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies can be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act of 1934 less than 180 days before the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 that remain unresolved. 