Item 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially harmed. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may never reach profitability. Since inception we have incurred significant operating losses and, as of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $300.1 million. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses and losses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: •complete the SYMMETRY trial, our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma that was initiated in the third quarter of 2007 and potentially initiate Phase 2 clinical trials of elesclomol in additional cancer types; •begin to perform and fund pre-commercialization activities, and establish sales and marketing functions and commercial manufacturing arrangements for elesclomol, consistent with our obligations under our collaborative development, commercialization and license agreement, or the GSK Agreement, with GlaxoSmithKline, or GSK; •complete the current Phase 2a clinical trial of apilimod for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, or RA and possibly initiate Phase 2 clinical trials of apilimod in additional inflammatory disease indications; •initiate additional Phase 3 clinical trials of elesclomol and one or more Phase 3 clinical trials of apilimod, if supported by Phase 2 results; •complete the Phase 1 clinical trials of STA-9090 that were initiated in the fourth quarter of 2007, initiate additional Phase 1 trials and initiate any later-stage clinical trials, if supported by Phase 1 results; •complete preclinical development of STA-9584 and initiate clinical trials, if supported by positive preclinical data; •advance our CRAC ion channel inhibitor program into clinical trials, if supported by positive preclinical data; •discover, develop, and seek regulatory approval for backups of our current drug candidates and other new drug candidates; •identify additional compounds or drug candidates and acquire rights from third parties to those compounds or drug candidates through licenses, acquisitions or other means; •commercialize any approved drug candidates; •hire additional clinical, scientific, and management personnel; and 37 •add operational, financial, and management information systems and personnel. We must generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drug candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Our operating history may make it difficult to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. We commenced operations in July 2001 and are a development-stage company. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring, developing, and securing our technology, and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials of our drug candidates. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval, formulate and manufacture a commercial-scale product, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history or had previously discovered, developed, and/or commercialized an approved product. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our lead drug candidates. Although we have raised substantial capital to date, we may require additional capital in order to complete clinical development and commercialize our drug candidates, elesclomol, apilimod, STA-9090, and STA-9584, and to conduct the research and development and clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring other drug candidates to market. We initiated the SYMMETRY trial, our global, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, in the third quarter of 2007, and we expect the remaining costs necessary for the new drug application, or NDA, submission, including the cost of the clinical trial, clinical drug supplies, registration manufacturing and regulatory activities necessary to compile the NDA submission, together with the costs of related nonclinical toxicology and other testing to support the trial, will be in the range of $60 million to $70 million. We may not have sufficient capital, however, to fully fund certain other activities, including activities related to the continued clinical development of our other lead drug candidates and advancement of our other programs. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors that are currently unknown to us, including: •our ability to fulfill our obligations and otherwise maintain our agreement with GSK; •the progress and results of the SYMMETRY trial, our global, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma that was initiated in the third quarter of 2007; •the progress and results of any additional Phase 2 clinical trials of elesclomol in other cancer types we may initiate; •the costs of performing and funding pre-commercialization activities, and establishing sales and marketing functions and commercial manufacturing arrangements for elesclomol, consistent with our obligations under our agreement with GSK; •the progress and results of the current Phase 2a clinical trial of apilimod for the treatment of RA and any future Phase 2 clinical trials we may initiate for other inflammatory disease indications; •the progress and results of any additional Phase 3 clinical trials of elesclomol in other cancer types and any Phase 3 clinical trials of apilimod we may initiate in the future based on the results of Phase 2 clinical trials; 38 •the progress and results of our Phase 1 clinical trials of STA-9090 initiated in the fourth quarter of 2007, any additional Phase 1 clinical trials of STA-9090 and any later-stage clinical trials we may initiate in the future based on the results of the Phase 1 clinical trials; •the results of our preclinical studies and testing of STA-9584 and our CRAC ion channel inhibitor program, and our decision to initiate clinical trials, if supported by the preclinical results; •the costs, timing, and outcome of regulatory review of elesclomol, apilimod, STA-9090 and our preclinical drug candidates; •the scope, progress, results, and cost of preclinical development, clinical trials, and regulatory review of any new drug candidates we may discover or acquire; •the costs of preparing, filing, and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing, and defending intellectual property-related claims; •our ability to establish additional strategic collaborations and licensing or other arrangements on terms favorable to us; •the costs to satisfy our obligations under potential future collaborations; and •the timing, receipt, and amount of sales or royalties, if any, from elesclomol, apilimod, STA-9090, STA-9584, and our other potential products. Our funding requirements will depend on a number of factors, including: •the progress of our research and development programs, including the completion of preclinical studies and clinical trials for our current drug candidates and the results from these studies and trials; •the number of drug candidates we advance into later-stage clinical trials and the scope of our research and development programs; •our ability to discover additional drug candidates using our drug discovery technology and advance them into clinical development; •the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims for our drug discovery technology and drug candidates and avoiding infringing the intellectual property of others; •the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; •our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements, including our agreement with GSK; •the potential in-licensing of other products or technologies or the acquisition of complementary businesses; •the cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales activities, if any; and •the timing, receipt and amount of revenue, if any, from our drug candidates. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may be required to: •terminate, significantly modify or delay our research and development programs; •reduce our planned commercialization efforts; or 39 •obtain funds through collaborators that may require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates that we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize independently. Based on our current operating plans, we expect our existing funds to be sufficient to fund operations through at least 2008. Payment to us by GSK of milestones for our operational progress and achievement of certain success criteria leading to the approval by the FDA of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma could extend our cash availability, as could payments of milestones in connection with the development of elesclomol in other cancer indications and achievement of certain net sales thresholds. Based on our current operating plans, we expect to receive between $40 million and $50 million in operational progress milestone payments, under our agreement with GSK, in 2008. However, our operating plans may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us, and we may need additional funds sooner than planned. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. We may seek the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and collaborative and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, existing stockholders' ownership interests will be diluted and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect their rights as a stockholder. Pursuant to the terms of our collaboration with GSK, GSK may, subject to our agreement, purchase up to $45 million of our common stock in two separate tranches upon the future achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones. In the first tranche, GSK would be obligated, at our sole discretion, to purchase $25 million of our common stock. In the second tranche, which is subject to agreement by both GSK and us, GSK would purchase $20 million of our common stock. The per share purchase price under each tranche is at a specified premium. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Risks Related to the Development and Regulatory Approval of Our Drug Candidates Our success is largely dependent on the success of our lead drug candidate, elesclomol, as well as our other drug candidates, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of these drug candidates. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of our lead drug candidate, elesclomol, for the treatment of cancer. We have also invested a significant amount of time and financial resources in the development of our other drug candidates, apilimod, STA-9090 and STA-9584. We anticipate that our success will depend largely on the receipt of regulatory approval and successful commercialization of these drug candidates. The future success of these drug candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: •our ability to provide acceptable evidence of their safety and efficacy; •receipt of marketing approval from the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and any similar foreign regulatory authorities; •successful formulation of an efficacious and commercially viable form of apilimod; 40 •obtaining and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers or establishing commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities; •establishing an internal sales force or collaborating with pharmaceutical companies or contract sales organizations to market and sell any approved drug; and •acceptance of any approved drug in the medical community and by patients and third-party payors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will ever be able to generate revenues through the sale of an approved product. If we do not obtain the required regulatory approval, we will be unable to market and sell our drug candidates. Elesclomol, apilimod, STA-9090, STA-9584, and any other drug candidates we may discover or acquire and seek to commercialize are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing, and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required to be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new drug can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain, and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA is unpredictable but typically exceeds five years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. We initiated clinical development of elesclomol, apilimod and STA-9090 in 2002, 2003 and 2007, respectively, and thus far, these drug candidates have been studied in only a relatively small number of patients. We initiated the SYMMETRY trial, our global, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, in the third quarter of 2007. Apilimod is currently in Phase 2a clinical trials for the treatment of RA. We initiated two Phase 1 clinical trials of STA-9090 in the fourth quarter of 2007. STA-9584 is in preclinical development. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. In connection with the clinical trials of elesclomol, apilimod, STA-9090 and STA-9584 and any other drug candidate we may seek to develop in the future, we face risks that: •the drug candidate may not prove to be efficacious; •the dosing of the drug candidate in a particular clinical trial may not be at an optimal level (for example, we are uncertain whether the Phase 2 clinical trial results for elesclomol in sarcoma and non-small cell lung cancer and Phase 2 clinical trial results for apilimod in psoriasis and Crohn's disease were the result of suboptimal dosing amounts and/or dosing schedules); •patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the drug candidate being tested; •the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier clinical trials; and •the results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for marketing approval. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an NDA to the FDA and even fewer are approved for commercialization. Furthermore, even if we do receive regulatory approval to market a commercial product, any such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. 41 We will need to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of elesclomol in one or more Phase 3 clinical trials in order to obtain FDA approval for use in the treatment of metastatic melanoma, and there can be no assurance that elesclomol will achieve positive results in further clinical testing. Positive results in early clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage development. Although our Phase 2b clinical trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma achieved the primary endpoint of increasing progression-free survival, or PFS, there can be no assurance that the SYMMETRY trial, our global, pivotal Phase 3 trial for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, will achieve positive results. A number of factors could contribute to a lack of positive results in the SYMMETRY trial. For example, in our Phase 2b clinical trial, the majority of patients had been treated with prior chemotherapy, whereas our SYMMETRY trial will enroll only patients who have received no prior treatment with chemotherapy. In addition, the clinical investigators involved in the Phase 2b clinical trial used their judgment to determine when a patient's melanoma had progressed, using the criteria defined in the trial protocol and, among other factors, either CT or magnetic resonance imaging scans of a patient's tumors. In some past clinical trials by other companies involving similar subjective judgments, it has been reported that the variation among clinical trial sites in determining progression contributed to positive results. In the SYMMETRY trial, we will use a single centralized radiological reading center to review all patient scans, which could cause the results of our SYMMETRY trial to differ from those observed in our Phase 2b clinical trial. In the SYMMETRY trial, we will seek to stratify, or evenly allocate to each trial arm, patients having certain strong prognostic factors, such as elevated lactate dehydrogenase, or LDH, levels. However, we may not be able to effectively stratify all such prognostic factors evenly. Although we found that patients with elevated LDH were evenly distributed between the elesclomol plus paclitaxel arm and the paclitaxel control arm in our Phase 2b clinical trial, we noted that the M-grade distribution of patients was uneven. M-grade is a measure of the degree of metastasis, or spread of the disease. In our Phase 2b clinical trial, 53% of the patients in the elesclomol plus paclitaxel group were classified by the clinical investigator as M1c, the most advanced stage of metastatic melanoma, compared to 75% in the paclitaxel alone group. However, we believe that M-grade distribution between the treatment and control arms did not impact the positive results of that trial. The median PFS for M1c patients who received elesclomol plus paclitaxel was 3.7 months versus 1.8 months for M1c patients who received paclitaxel alone. This result suggests a PFS benefit regardless of M-grade status of the patient. Further, a statistical analysis that we conducted evaluating the impact of multiple variables, including LDH levels, liver metastases and M-grade classification, showed that, firstly, investigator-reported M-grade was not a prognostic factor in this study, and secondly, that the M-grade distribution between the two arms did not contribute to the positive outcome of this clinical trial. Furthermore, published results from historical trials show that the degree of metastasis may not be prognostic for PFS, although it appears to be prognostic for OS, as described, for example, in the recent Korn et al. paper. Despite these analyses, however, we cannot provide complete assurance that the M-grade distribution did not have an impact on the Phase 2b trial results or that if evenly distributed in a future trial, that the clinical trial results would not be altered. We also recently analyzed the Phase 2b data in a post hoc fashion by each patient's prior chemotherapy status. The median PFS for chemotherapy-naïve patients who received elesclomol plus paclitaxel (N=24) was 7.1 months versus 1.8 months for chemotherapy-naïve patients assigned to the paclitaxel control arm (N=8). We noted that patients who had at least one prior chemotherapy had a lesser PFS benefit: elesclomol plus paclitaxel (N=29) versus paclitaxel alone (N=20) of 2.8 months versus 1.8 months median PFS, respectively. We have selected chemotherapy-naïve patients only as the population for our Phase 3 clinical trial and therefore, do not expect these differences to negatively impact the likelihood of success of our Phase 3 trial. However, we can give no assurances that the Phase 2b trial results were not influenced by these differences. 42 If we do not receive positive results in our SYMMETRY trial, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize elesclomol for this indication and our development of elesclomol for other indications may be delayed or cancelled. Even if our SYMMETRY trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma achieves the primary endpoint of increasing PFS, the FDA may not find the increase to be clinically meaningful or the FDA might still require us to establish an overall survival benefit prior to registration. The primary endpoint of our recently-completed Phase 2b clinical trial of elesclomol for treating metastatic melanoma was PFS, and PFS is also the primary endpoint of our global, pivotal Phase 3 SYMMETRY trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. PFS, which measures for each patient the time from assignment to a treatment group until the earlier of tumor progression or death, is an endpoint that the FDA and/or its Oncologic Drug Advisory Committee, or ODAC, have previously indicated may be acceptable for registration in melanoma and other cancer types in clinical trials by other companies. However, no therapy for the treatment of melanoma has been approved to date based on a PFS endpoint. In our initial meeting and later discussions with the FDA on the design of our SYMMETRY trial for elesclomol, the FDA accepted our use of PFS as the primary endpoint in this trial and overall survival, or OS, as the secondary endpoint, although the FDA noted that the magnitude of an increase in PFS would need to be clinically meaningful in order to support approval of elesclomol based on the PFS endpoint. We can give no assurances, however, that the FDA or any other regulatory body will not require a different primary endpoint, such as OS, or additional efficacy endpoints for registration. If the FDA requires a different or any additional efficacy endpoints, we may be required to conduct larger or longer Phase 3 clinical trials than currently planned to achieve a statistically significant result to enable approval of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. Further, we applied to the FDA for Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, of the SYMMETRY trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. The SPA process may result in a written agreement between a clinical trial sponsor and the FDA that the design and planned analyses of the clinical trial will support regulatory approval, unless public health concerns unrecognized at the time of the protocol assessment become evident. Following discussions with the FDA, we received a response letter stating that the FDA has completed its review of our SPA application and has determined that the design and planned analyses of our study adequately address the objectives necessary to support a regulatory submission. However, the approval decision may be made based on a number of factors, including the degree of clinical benefit, and the FDA is not obligated to approve elesclomol as a result of the SPA, even if the clinical outcome is positive. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that positive results in the SYMMETRY trial will be sufficient for FDA approval of elesclomol. In addition, in order to detect a statistically significant result in our SYMMETRY trial for the primary endpoint of PFS, we believe that we will need to enroll and evaluate between 250 and 300 patients. However, based on our communications with the FDA and our medical advisors, we intend to use OS as a secondary endpoint, and estimate that we will need to enroll approximately 630 patients to detect a statistically significant benefit in this endpoint. We plan to conduct the final analysis for the PFS primary endpoint after two criteria have been satisfied: a prespecified minimum number of PFS events have occurred and full enrollment has been completed. Although we do not currently expect any delay in the availability of the PFS results beyond that point, there can be no assurance that future discussions with the FDA will not result in further delay of the analysis or in the release of this data. In addition, even if the SYMMETRY trial shows statistically and clinically meaningful benefits in the PFS primary endpoint, the FDA may decide to wait to review data relative to the OS secondary endpoint before considering elesclomol for approval. In our Phase 2b trial of elesclomol for metastatic melanoma, during a post-hoc analysis of patients as originally randomized, we noted an improvement in median OS for patients randomized to the elesclomol plus paclitaxel arm (median OS = 11.9 months) 43 as compared to those patients randomized to the paclitaxel alone arm (median OS = 7.8 months), but the difference did not achieve statistical significance. Although we are encouraged by the improvement in OS we observed in our Phase 2b clinical trial of elesclomol for metastatic melanoma, we note that OS was not a pre-defined endpoint of that trial, the analysis we performed was not prospectively defined and the results might have been influenced by a number of confounding factors, including the cross-over design of the trial, prior treatments and further treatments received following treatment on our trial. We can give no assurance that we will obtain positive OS data in the SYMMETRY trial that are sufficient to achieve the secondary endpoint of the trial, or establish an OS benefit trend at all. If the FDA were to approve elesclomol based on the data from the PFS endpoint and the results of the OS secondary endpoint are not positive, the FDA may limit the use of elesclomol or even withdraw it from the market. If the FDA requires additional clinical data prior to registration, we may need to conduct more, larger or longer Phase 3 clinical trials than currently planned. Prior to approving a new drug, the FDA typically requires that the efficacy of the drug be demonstrated in two double-blind, controlled studies. In light of the unmet medical need in metastatic melanoma and the results of our Phase 2b clinical trial, we believe that we will be required to conduct only a single Phase 3 clinical trial of elesclomol. However, the FDA has indicated that the trial must provide compelling evidence of clinically meaningful benefit in order to warrant consideration for marketing approval, and the FDA has noted that a trial that is merely statistically positive may not provide sufficient evidence to support an NDA filing or approval of a drug candidate. If the FDA determines that the results of our SYMMETRY trial do not have a clinically meaningful benefit, or if the FDA requires us to conduct additional Phase 3 clinical trials of elesclomol prior to seeking approval, we will incur significant additional development costs and commercialization of elesclomol may be prevented or delayed. If the current formulation and method of administering elesclomol is not commercially feasible, we may not be able to commercialize elesclomol without reformulation and conducting additional clinical trials. To date, other than a human bridging study of a salt form of elesclomol, all of our clinical trials have been and are being conducted using the free acid form of elesclomol, which we intend to continue to use in our clinical trials planned for 2008, as well as in our initial commercial product. Because this free acid form of elesclomol is not water soluble, prior to administration, it must be dissolved in an organic solvent. In the completed Phase 2b clinical trial in metastatic melanoma, this was achieved by combining the elesclomol with a volume of organic solvent included in the paclitaxel solution and agitating the resulting mixture with a sonication machine for up to 45 minutes. Once the elesclomol was fully dissolved, the resulting solution was added to the remaining paclitaxel solution, and the combined elesclomol/paclitaxel solution was administered to the patient. We have improved the process for preparing the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and drug product of elesclomol, such that elesclomol can now be dissolved in the paclitaxel solution without sonication. We believe these improved procedures replicate the results of the prior methods and are suitable for preparing drug product for clinical trials and commercialization. These improved procedures will be used in our SYMMETRY trial and any Phase 2 clinical trials that we may initiate in additional cancer indications using the free acid form of elesclomol. We have taken steps to ensure that the medical personnel responsible for formulating elesclomol are properly trained to carry out the new dissolution process. Although we believe that the changes in the procedures for preparing and dissolving elesclomol prior to administration will not affect the efficacy or pharmaceutical properties of the treatment, there can be no assurance that the results of future trials will not be affected by these changes. In addition, in order to use the free acid form of elesclomol with other oncology products, including taxanes other than paclitaxel, it must be dissolved in an organic solvent, which may cause additional toxicity due to the presence of the organic solvent. 44 We have developed a water-soluble salt form of elesclomol that does not need to be dissolved in an organic solvent and therefore may be used more easily with other oncology products or potentially, as a stand alone agent without need for an organic solvent. We intend to explore the use of this new salt form of elesclomol in future clinical trials. However, it is also our intention to use the free acid form of elesclomol in our initial commercial product. If the free acid form does not prove to be commercially feasible and we are required to commercialize the salt form of elesclomol, it will require additional formulation development efforts and clinical studies which would delay the commercialization of this drug candidate. While we believe elesclomol may have applicability to a broad range of solid tumor cancers, including tumor types other than melanoma, our clinical trials of elesclomol in non-small cell lung cancer and soft tissue sarcoma have shown negative or inconclusive results. Based on our understanding of the mechanism of action and the preclinical activity we have seen with elesclomol, which included showing activity in a broad range of cancer types, we intend to conduct clinical trials of elesclomol in a number of other cancer indications in addition to melanoma. In addition to our Phase 2b clinical trial in metastatic melanoma, we have also conducted Phase 2 clinical trials of elesclomol in sarcoma and non-small cell lung cancer. The results of the soft tissue sarcoma clinical trial did not definitively establish evidence of clinical activity. In the non-small cell lung cancer clinical trial, no improvement was observed in time-to-progression between combination treatment with elesclomol and a standard first-line combination therapy. Although we are currently analyzing these data further to assess future development of elesclomol in sarcoma and non-small cell lung cancer, including assessing the possibility for a potential future clinical trial in non-small cell lung cancer at a more frequent dosing schedule and higher dose than previously tested, there can be no assurances that we will continue the development of elesclomol in these indications or that elesclomol will prove effective in and be approved for treating these or other forms of cancer. Because our drug candidates are in an early stage of development, there is a high risk of failure, and we may never succeed in developing marketable products or generating product revenue. We have no drug candidates that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. We do not expect to have any commercial products on the market until at least 2009, if at all. We are exploring human diseases at the cellular level and attempting to develop drug candidates that intervene with cellular processes. Drug development is an uncertain process that involves trial and error, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way. Success in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and successful results from early or small clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later and larger clinical trials. For example, although preclinical data and Phase 2a clinical trial results suggested that apilimod had activity in psoriasis and Crohn's disease, our Phase 2b clinical trials of apilimod in those indications did not demonstrate clinical benefit. Accordingly, the results from preclinical studies and the completed and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage clinical trials. If clinical trials for our drug candidates, including elesclomol and apilimod, are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or any regulatory authority to delay or suspend those clinical trials or delay the analysis of data derived from them. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials and negatively impact 45 our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a particular drug candidate, including our clinical drug candidates elesclomol and apilimod: •conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; •delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, required approvals from institutional review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; •insufficient supply or deficient quality of our drug candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; •delays in obtaining regulatory agency agreement for the conduct of our clinical trials; •lower than anticipated enrollment and retention rate of subjects in clinical trials; •negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results, that necessitate additional clinical studies (for example, due to patient-to-patient pharmacokinetic variability); •serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in clinical trials; or •failure of our third-party contractors to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner. Commercialization of our drug candidates may be delayed by the imposition of additional conditions on our clinical trials by the FDA or the requirement of additional supportive studies by the FDA. In addition, clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the conduct of other clinical trials that compete for the same patients as our clinical trials, and the eligibility criteria for our clinical trials. For example, competing trials for melanoma treatments or the emergence of new approved therapies may make it more difficult to enroll patients in our SYMMETRY trial on the schedule currently planned. We are aware of other ongoing clinical trials of drug candidates for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, including Nexavar, Sutent, Avasba, Avastin, ipilimumab, and tremelumimab. Enrollment efforts and future results with respect to these trials could also adversely impact patient enrollment in our SYMMETRY trial. We have had satisfactory patient enrollment in our completed clinical trials. However, in our SYMMETRY trial, we expect to enroll approximately 630 patients with stage IV metastatic melanoma, which is significantly more patients than we enrolled in our completed Phase 2b clinical trial for elesclomol. Initiation of the SYMMETRY trial in certain geographical regions has been slower than we expected, which increases the risk that full trial enrollment may be delayed beyond our initial goal. To increase the likelihood of our meeting the overall enrollment timeline for this trial, we are taking several specific actions, including potentially increasing the target number of clinical sites. Despite these efforts, if patient enrollment remains below our initial projections, the completion of this trial will be delayed. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Our failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trial beyond our current expectations. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of subjects than we have projected for any of our drug candidates. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, enrolled patients may drop out of our clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. We do not know whether our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured, or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Delays in our clinical trials will result in increased development costs for our drug candidates. In addition, if our clinical trials are delayed, our competitors may be able 46 to bring products to market before we do and the commercial viability of our drug candidates, including our drug candidates elesclomol and apilimod, could be limited. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs could prevent us from selling our drug candidates in foreign markets, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing, and reimbursement for marketing our drug candidates outside the United States vary greatly from country to country and may require additional testing. While GSK has exclusive responsibility to develop elesclomol outside the United States, we also expect that our future clinical development of apilimod, STA-9090 and other drug candidates will involve a number of clinical trials in foreign jurisdictions, particularly in Europe. We have no experience in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals. The time required to obtain approvals outside the United States may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We or GSK may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain required approvals could impair our and GSK's ability to develop foreign markets for our drug candidates and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our drug candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if they receive marketing approval, and if we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals and the sale of any approved commercial products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular drug candidate, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, and record keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable domestic and foreign regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with any approved commercial products, manufacturers, or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: •restrictions on the products, manufacturers, or manufacturing processes; •untitled or warning letters; •civil or criminal penalties; •fines; •injunctions; •product seizures or detentions; •import bans; •voluntary or mandatory product recalls and related publicity requirements; •suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •total or partial suspension of production; and •refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or supplements to approved applications. 47 If side effects increase or are identified during the time our drug candidates are in development or after they are approved and on the market, we may be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, change the labeling of any such products, or withdraw any such products from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. In our completed Phase 2b clinical trial of elesclomol for metastatic melanoma, there were four patients with possible or probable drug-related serious adverse events related to treatment with elesclomol. The first event involved a patient who developed lichenoid dermatitis, a severe rash-like condition, which was considered by the investigator to be possibly related to treatment. The second event involved a patient who experienced atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response. This event was also considered by the investigator to be possibly related to treatment. The third event involved an infection which, despite a normal absolute neutrophil count was considered by the investigator to be possibly related to treatment. The fourth event involved severe dehydration that was considered by the investigator to be probably related to treatment. If the incidence of these events increases or if other effects are identified after any of our drug candidates are approved and on the market: •regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals; •we may be required to reformulate any such products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of any such products, or implement changes to or obtain new approvals of our or our contractors' manufacturing facilities; •we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products; •our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and •we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing any such products. We have also observed significant toxicities in preclinical animal studies of our clinical drug candidate, STA-9090. If significant toxicities occur at a clinical dose of STA-9090 which is not sufficiently efficacious, we may not be able to demonstrate an adequate therapeutic index to obtain regulatory approval for STA-9090. While we choose to test our drug candidates in specific clinical indications based in part on our understanding of their mechanisms of action, our understanding may be incorrect or incomplete and, therefore, our drugs may not be effective against the diseases tested in our clinical trials. Our rationale for selecting the particular therapeutic indications for each of our drug candidates is based in part on our understanding of the mechanism of action of these drug candidates. However, our understanding of the drug candidate's mechanism of action may be incomplete or incorrect, or the mechanism may not be clinically relevant to the diseases treated. In such cases, our drug candidates may prove to be ineffective in the clinical trials for treating those diseases. We deal with hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our activities involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials, including cytotoxic agents, genotoxic agents, infectious agents, corrosive, explosive and flammable chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for the handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. 48 In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials, and we could be liable for any civil damages that result, which may exceed our financial resources and may seriously harm our business. We currently maintain insurance covering hazardous waste clean up costs in an amount of up to $250,000 per site. Because we believe that our laboratory and materials handling policies and practices sufficiently mitigate the likelihood of materials liability or third-party claims, we currently carry no insurance covering such claims. While we believe that the amount of insurance we carry is sufficient for typical risks regarding our handling of these materials, it may not be sufficient to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events. Additionally, an accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our operations. In addition, if we develop a manufacturing capacity, we may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations and would be subject to the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use of hazardous materials in our manufacturing process. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We have recently entered into an agreement with GSK relating to the development and commercialization of elesclomol. If this agreement is unsuccessful or terminated by GSK for any reason, our ability to commercialize elesclomol on a timely basis, or at all, could be affected and our business could be materially harmed. On October 8, 2007, we entered into a Collaborative Development, Commercialization and License Agreement with GSK for the joint development and commercialization of elesclomol. We do not have a history of working together with GSK and cannot predict the success of this collaboration. The agreement involves a complex allocation of responsibilities, costs and benefits and provides for milestone payments to us upon the achievement of specified operational progress, positive clinical and regulatory outcomes and sales milestones. With respect to responsibilities and control over decisions, we and GSK have established a series of joint committees which will be responsible for the development and commercialization of elesclomol. We have the right, but not the obligation to participate in these various joint governance committees. Under the committee structure, if the committees are unable to reach a decision, the matter is referred to senior executives of each of the parties. Each party has ultimate decision making authority with respect to a specified set of issues. For certain other specified issues, the matter must be resolved by consensus of the parties, and for all other issues, the matter must be resolved through arbitration. Accordingly, GSK's failure to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercialization of elesclomol or the failure of the parties to reach consensus on the conduct of development or commercialization activities with respect to elesclomol may delay its clinical development, which could lead to the delay in payment of clinical and regulatory milestones under the collaboration agreement and may delay commercialization of elesclomol. In addition, the agreement provides that GSK may terminate the agreement upon not less than three months' written notice at any time prior to the date of the first commercial sale of an elesclomol product and not less than six months' written notice at any time on and after such date, in which case GSK may be obligated in certain circumstances to make additional payments to us. Loss of GSK as a collaborator in the development or commercialization of elesclomol, any dispute over the terms of, or decisions regarding, the agreement, or any other adverse developments in our relationship with GSK could result in our inability to fully develop and/or commercialize elesclomol, or at all, and could materially harm our business and could accelerate our need for additional capital. 49 We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, and clinical investigators to perform this function. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. To date, our contract research organizations and other similar entities with which we are working have performed well; however, if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be delayed in obtaining regulatory approvals for our drug candidates and may be delayed in our efforts to successfully commercialize our drug candidates for targeted diseases. We have no manufacturing capacity and depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our clinical trial drug supplies. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of elesclomol, apilimod or STA-9090, or any of our preclinical drug candidates. We have limited experience in drug manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our drug candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we currently rely on third-party manufacturers to supply, store, and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials and anticipate future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers until we increase the number of manufacturers with whom we contract. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates or commercialization of any approved products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue. Our drug candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Failure by our contract manufacturers to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns, or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control, and quality assurance. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards; however, we do not have control over third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. If for some reason our contract manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be unable to replace such third-party manufacturers in a timely manner and the production of our drug candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays in clinical trials and additional costs. Switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer prior to manufacturing our drug candidates. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our drug candidates after receipt of FDA approval. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. 50 We are using a single manufacturer for the supply of elesclomol powder-filled vials for the SYMMETRY trial, our global, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for the treatment of metastatic melanoma and potentially, for commercial supply, and the failure of this manufacturer to supply sufficient quantities of elesclomol powder-filled vials could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are using a single manufacturer for the supply of elesclomol powder-filled vials for the SYMMETRY trial, our global, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial for the treatment of metastatic melanoma and potentially, for commercial supply, if approved. This process involves highly specialized processing, including the automated filling of vials with elesclomol under sterile conditions. We believe that this manufacturer may be one of a limited number of third-party contract manufacturers currently capable of conducting this process on our behalf. We have entered into a clinical supply agreement and a quality agreement with this manufacturer for the production of elesclomol drug product, which we believe will satisfy our manufacturing requirements for the SYMMETRY trial and additional Phase 2 clinical trials of elesclomol for other cancer indications. Although the clinical supply agreement notes that the parties have a mutual desire to enter into good faith negotiations for commercial supply services, if circumstances allow, there are no terms in this contract relating to commercial supply of elesclomol, and we cannot assure that we will be able to enter into a commercial supply agreement with this manufacturer on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any performance failure on the part of this manufacturer or the failure to enter an appropriate commercial supply agreement on reasonable terms in the future, assuming GSK decides to contract with this manufacturer or other circumstances so require, could delay clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization of elesclomol, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, although we believe we have identified a suitable backup manufacturer for elesclomol powder-filled vials, neither GSK nor we have an agreement with this manufacturer for producing this product and there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into such an agreement on favorable terms, if at all. We anticipate continued reliance on third-party manufacturers if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies for any of our drug candidates. To date, our drug candidates have been manufactured in relatively small quantities for preclinical testing and clinical trials by third-party manufacturers. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our drug candidates for commercial sale, we expect that we would continue to rely, at least initially, on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of our approved drug candidates. These manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our approved drug candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If they are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, particularly elesclomol, or we are unable to establish our own manufacturing capabilities, the commercial launch of any approved products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. If we do not establish additional collaborations, we may have to alter our development plans. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our drug candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. Although we have established a collaboration with GSK relating to the joint development and commercialization of elesclomol, our strategy also includes potentially selectively collaborating with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering development and potential commercialization of some of our other drug candidates. We may enter into one or more of such collaborations in the future, especially for target indications in which the potential collaborator has particular therapeutic expertise or that involve a large, primary care market that must be served by large sales and marketing organizations or for markets outside of North America. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to 51 negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular drug candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our drug candidates to market and generate product revenue. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our drug candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenue or co-commercialize elesclomol under our arrangement with GSK. Although we have entered into a collaborative development, commercialization and license agreement with GSK for elesclomol, we do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to co-commercialize elesclomol in the United States under our arrangement with GSK or market any other products that may be approved by the FDA, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial, and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, our share in elesclomol profits with GSK may be diminished or we may not be able to generate product revenue and we may not become profitable. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If our patent position does not adequately protect our drug candidates or any future products, others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our business. As of March 14, 2008, our patent portfolio consisted of a total of 602 patents and patent applications worldwide. We own or license a total of 23 issued U.S. patents and 94 U.S. patent applications, as well as 485 foreign patents and patent applications. We have issued U.S. composition-of-matter patents claiming the chemical structures of elesclomol and apilimod. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain additional patents and protect our existing patent position as well as our ability to maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies, drug candidates, and any future products in the United States and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies, drug candidates, and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. In addition, although we do not believe that any of the patents or patent applications that we currently license are material to our business, we may in the future license intellectual property that is material to us. In such cases, we may be dependent upon the licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for the licensed intellectual property. These licensors may not successfully prosecute patent applications or may fail to maintain issued patents. The licensors may also determine not to 52 pursue litigation against other companies that infringe the patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. If any of the foregoing occurs, and the terms of any such future license do not allow us to assume control of patent prosecution, maintenance and enforcement, any competitive advantage we may have due to the license may be diminished or eliminated. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: •we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; •we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; •others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; •any of our or our licensors' pending patent applications will result in issued patents; •any of our or our licensors' patents will be valid or enforceable; •any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; •we will develop additional proprietary technologies or drug candidates that are patentable; or •the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. Although third parties may challenge our rights to, or the scope or validity of our patents, to date we have not received any communications from third parties challenging our patents or patent applications covering our drug candidates. We typically file for patent protection first on the composition-of-matter of our drug candidates and also claim their activities and methods for their production and use to the extent known at that time. As we learn more about the mechanisms of action and new methods of manufacture and use of these drug candidates, we generally file additional patent applications for these new inventions. Although our patents may prevent others from making, using, or selling similar products, they do not ensure that we will not infringe the patent rights of third parties. For example, because we sometimes identify the mechanism of action or molecular target of a given drug candidate after identifying its composition-of-matter and therapeutic use, we may not be aware until the mechanism or target is further elucidated that a third party has an issued or pending patent claiming biological activities or targets that may cover our drug candidate. If such a patent exists or is granted in the future, we cannot provide assurances that a license will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 53 Litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing or commercializing our drug candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and enforcing our own patents and proprietary rights against others. Certain of our research and development programs are in highly competitive fields in which numerous third parties have issued patents and patent applications with claims closely related to the subject matter of our programs. We are not currently aware of any litigation or other proceedings or claims by third parties that our drug candidates, technologies or methods infringe their intellectual property. However, while it is our practice to conduct freedom to operate searches and analyses, we cannot guarantee that we have identified every patent or patent application that may be relevant to the research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates. In the case of patent applications, we assess the likelihood of claims in pending, third party patent applications being allowed which may interfere with our freedom to operate relative to our drug candidates. We cannot provide assurances that our assessments in this regard will be correct and that patent claims covering our drug candidates that were assessed a low likelihood of issuance by us will not issue to a third party in the future. Moreover, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert against us patents that we believe are not infringed by us or are invalid. For example, we are aware of a U.S. patent and a related European patent that claim generic chemical structures, pharmaceutical formulations and methods of treatment relating to compounds similar to STA-9090 and a U.S. patent that claims methods of treating certain cancers using heat shock protein 90, or Hsp90, inhibitors. The claims of these patents may be relevant to the commercialization of our drug candidate, STA-9090. However, based on our analysis of these patents, we do not believe that the manufacture, use, importation or sale of STA-9090 would infringe any valid claim of these patents. However, we cannot guarantee that these patents would not be asserted against us and, if asserted, that a court would find these patents to be invalid or not infringed. In the event of a successful infringement action against us with respect to any third party patent rights, we may be required to: •pay substantial damages; •stop developing, commercializing, and selling the infringing drug candidates or approved products; •stop utilizing the infringing technologies and methods in our drug candidates or approved products; •develop non-infringing products, technologies, and methods; and •obtain one or more licenses from other parties, which could result in our paying substantial royalties or our granting of cross licenses to our technologies. We may not be able to obtain licenses from other parties at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all, we could encounter substantial delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative technologies, methods, and products, which we may not be able to accomplish. We may be subject to claims that we have wrongfully hired an employee from a competitor or that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged confidential information or trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we have previously been subject to a claim by an 54 alleged competitor that a prospective employee we sought to hire was bound by an ongoing non-competition obligation which prevented us from hiring this employee. We may be subject in the future to claims that our employees or prospective employees are subject to a continuing obligation to their former employers (such as non-competition or non-solicitation obligations) or claims that our employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to the Commercialization of Our Drug Candidates If physicians and patients do not accept our future products or if the markets for indications for which any drug candidate is approved is smaller than expected, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if elesclomol, apilimod, STA-9090, STA-9584 or any other drug candidates we may develop or acquire in the future obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients, and the medical community. Physicians may elect not to recommend these drugs for a variety of reasons including: •timing of market introduction of competitive products, including other melanoma treatments currently in development (such as Nexavar, Sutent, ispinesib, ipilimumab, tremelumimab, volociximab, M-Vax and MDX-1379, as well as forms of chemotherapy); •demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; •cost-effectiveness; •availability of reimbursement from managed care plans and other third-party payors; •convenience and ease of administration; •prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; •other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and •ineffective marketing and distribution support of our products. If our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and our business would suffer. In addition, we have initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial for our most advanced clinical-stage candidate, elesclomol, in patients with stage IV metastatic melanoma. We currently estimate that there are relatively few people with metastatic melanoma in the United States. Accordingly, even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval to market elesclomol for this indication, the market for this indication may not be sufficient to generate significant revenue and our business would suffer. If the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement rates for our future products, if any, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers, and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage and the amounts that they will pay for new drugs, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our drugs. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to such payors' satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of 55 management time and financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, in some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. In addition, recent changes in the Medicare program and increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical product pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenue and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals might change before our drug candidates are approved for marketing. Adoption of such legislation could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, changes the way Medicare will cover and pay for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and disabled and introduced new reimbursement methodologies, based on average sales prices for drugs that are administered in an in-patient setting or by physicians, such as elesclomol, if approved. In addition, this legislation provides authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. Although we do not know what the full impact of the new reimbursement methodologies will have on the prices of new drugs, we expect that there will be added pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards. The use of any of our drug candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, might expose us to product liability claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in an amount of up to $10.0 million, which we believe is adequate for our clinical trials currently in progress. We monitor the amount of coverage we maintain as the size and design of our clinical trials evolve and intend to adjust the amount of coverage we maintain accordingly. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage will fully protect us against some or all of the claims to which we might become subject. We might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity could result, all of which could harm our business. If we inadvertently violate the guidelines pertaining to promotion and advertising of our clinical candidates or approved products, we may be subject to disciplinary action by the FDA's Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications or other regulatory bodies. The FDA's Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications, or DDMAC, is responsible for reviewing prescription drug advertising and promotional labeling to ensure that the information contained in these materials is not false or misleading. There are specific disclosure 56 requirements and the applicable regulations mandate that advertisements cannot be false or misleading or omit material facts about the product. Prescription drug promotional materials must present a fair balance between the drug's effectiveness and the risks associated with its use. Most warning letters from DDMAC cite inadequate disclosure of risk information. DDMAC prioritizes its actions based on the degree of risk to the public health, and often focuses on newly introduced drugs and those associated with significant health risks. There are two types of letters that DDMAC typically sends to companies which violate its drug advertising and promotional guidelines: notice of violation letters, or untitled letters, and warning letters. In the case of an untitled letter, DDMAC typically alerts the drug company of the violation and issues a directive to refrain from future violations, but does not typically demand other corrective action. A warning letter is typically issued in cases that are more serious or where the company is a repeat offender. Although we have not received any such letters from DDMAC, we may inadvertently violate DDMAC's guidelines in the future and be subject to a DDMAC untitled letter or warning letter, which may have a negative impact on our business. Risks Related to Our Industry We may not be able to keep up with the rapid technological change in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, which could make any future approved products obsolete and reduce our revenue. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technologies have undergone and continue to be subject to rapid and significant change. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our drug discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies. In addition, any future products that we develop, including our clinical drug candidates, elesclomol, apilimod and STA-9090, and our preclinical drug candidate, STA-9584, may become obsolete before we recover expenses incurred in developing those products, which may require that we raise additional funds to continue our operations. Our market is subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our drug candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. We are engaged in segments of the pharmaceutical industry that are highly competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs that target cancer and chronic inflammatory diseases. We face, and expect to continue to face, intense and increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. In addition to currently approved drugs, there are a significant number of drugs that are currently under development and may become available in the future for the treatment of cancer and chronic inflammatory diseases. We would expect our drug candidates to compete with marketed drugs and drug candidates currently under development, including the following: •Elesclomol. If approved, we would expect elesclomol to compete with currently approved drugs for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, including dacarbazine/DTIC marketed by Bayer, and generic versions thereof, the injectable protein interleukin 2, or IL-2, marketed by Chiron, and the injectable protein interferon alfa-2b, marketed by Schering-Plough. Elesclomol may also compete with drug candidates currently in clinical development by other companies, including: (1) kinase inhibitors such as Nexavar, being developed by Bayer and Onyx, Sutent, being developed by Pfizer, and ispinesib, being developed by Cytokinetics and GSK; (2) the 57 anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibodies, ipilimumab and tremelumimab; (3) the anti-integrin volociximab; (4) injectable angiogenesis inhibitors, such as Avastin; (5) cancer vaccines such as M-Vax and MDX-1379; and (6) derivatives, analogs, or reformulations of known chemotherapies, such as Abraxane, or other cytotoxic chemotherapies. In addition, elesclomol may compete against drugs not currently approved for the treatment of metastatic melanoma, but which are commonly used off-label to treat this disease, such as taxanes, temozolomide, vincristine, carmustine, melphalan, and platinum-chemotherapeutics, such as cisplatin and carboplatin. •Apilimod. If approved, we would expect apilimod to compete with other treatments of chronic inflammatory diseases, including (1) large-molecule, injectable TNFa antagonists, such as Remicade, marketed by Johnson & Johnson, Enbrel, marketed by Amgen and Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, and Humira, marketed by Abbott Laboratories, (2) broadly immunosuppressive small molecule agents, including corticosteroids, methotrexate, and azathioprine, and (3) injectible antibodies targeting IL-12, including CNTO-1275 currently in clinical trials and ABT-874 currently awaiting approval, being developed by Johnson & Johnson and Abbott Laboratories, respectively. •STA-9090. If approved, we would expect STA-9090 to compete with the currently approved therapies for the treatment of cancers, and other cancer treatments currently under development, including 17-AAG, being developed by Kosan, and other agents that inhibit Hsp90, including Hsp90 inhibitors being developed by AstraZenica/Medimmune/Infinity, BiogenIdec, Novartis/Vernalis, and Astex. •STA-9584. If approved, we would expect STA-9584 to compete with the currently approved therapies for the treatment of cancers, and other cancer treatments currently under development, including other vascular disrupting agents, such as ABT-751, being developed by Abbott Laboratories; AS1404, being developed by Novartis/Antisoma, CA4P, being developed by Oxigene, EXEL-0999, being developed by Exelixis, and ZD6126, being developed by Angiogene. Many of our competitors have: •significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize drug candidates; •more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; •drug candidates that have been approved or are in late-stage clinical development; and/or •collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Competitive products may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our drug candidates. Furthermore, the development of new treatment methods and/or the widespread adoption or increased utilization of any vaccine for the diseases we are targeting could render our drug candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. If we successfully develop and obtain approval for our drug candidates, we will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our drug candidates, the timing of their entry into the market in relation to competitive products in development, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. If we successfully develop drug candidates but those drug candidates do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be successful. 58 Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on Safi R. Bahcall, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, and the other principal members of our executive and scientific teams. All of the agreements with these principal members of our executive and scientific teams provide that employment is at-will and may be terminated by the employee at any time and without notice. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we may lose the services of any of these persons in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development, and commercialization objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and possibly sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. We do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. We expect to expand our development, clinical research, and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational, and financial systems, expand our facilities, and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. If we make strategic acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and might never realize the anticipated benefits. All of our acquisitions to date have been of related parties. Accordingly, we have very limited experience in independently identifying acquisition candidates and integrating the operations of truly independent acquisition candidates with our company. Currently we are not a party to any acquisition agreements, nor do we have any understanding or commitment with respect to any such acquisition. If appropriate opportunities become available, however, we might attempt to acquire approved products, additional drug candidates, or businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we pursue any transaction of that sort, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired product, drug candidate, or business might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. 59 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. Prior to our February 2007 initial public offering, there was not a public market for our common stock. There is a limited history on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price; however, since our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Global Market on February 6, 2007 through December 31, 2007, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $4.93 to a high of $11.25. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: •progress in and results from the SYMMETRY trial, our global, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma; •plans for, progress in, and results from any other future clinical trials of elesclomol; •results of our current Phase 2a or any future clinical trials of apilimod we may initiate; •results of our current Phase 1 clinical trials of STA-9090, and results from any other future clinical trials of STA-9090; •results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; •failure or delays in advancing STA-9584 or our CRAC ion channel inhibitor program, or other drug candidates we may discover or acquire in the future, into clinical trials; •failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; •developments relating to our agreement with GSK or any future collaborations we may enter into; •issues in manufacturing our drug candidates or approved products; •regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; •developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; •introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; •changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our common stock; •public concern over our drug candidates or any approved products; •litigation; •future sales of our common stock; •general market conditions; •changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; •failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; •economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; •period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and •overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets. 60 These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Insiders have substantial control over us which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management and/or the board of directors. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates and related persons, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: •delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control; •entrenching our management and/or the board of directors; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Provisions of our charter, bylaws, and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: •allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; •establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of the board of directors be elected at one time; •authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a "poison pill" to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; •require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; •establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; •limit who may call stockholder meetings; and 61 •require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, our stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain on an investment in our common stock for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 