Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered carefully when evaluating us and our business. The factors described below may not be the only risks that we face. Additional risks that we do not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities. 14 Table of Contents Our business is principally focused on the health care industry, and factors that adversely affect the financial condition of the health care industry could consequently affect our business. We derive most of our revenue from members in the health care industry. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations depend upon conditions affecting the health care industry generally and hospitals and health systems particularly. Our ability to grow will depend upon the economic environment of the health care industry generally as well as our ability to increase the number of programs and services that we sell to our members. The health care industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. In addition, federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. health care system at both the federal and state level, such as by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. Due to the significant implementation issues arising under these laws, it is unclear what long-term effects they will have on the healthcare industry and in turn on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There are many factors that could affect the purchasing practices, operations, and, ultimately, the operating funds of health care organizations, such as reimbursement policies for health care expenses, consolidation in the health care industry, and regulation, litigation, and general economic conditions. In particular, changes in regulations affecting the health care industry, such as any increased regulation by governmental agencies of the purchase and sale of medical products, changes to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and the regulations that have been issued under it, which we refer to collectively as HIPAA, and other federal or state privacy laws, laws relating to the tax-exempt status of many of our members, or restrictions on permissible discounts and other financial arrangements could require us to make unplanned modifications of our products and services, or result in delays or cancellations of orders, or reduce funds and demand for our products and services. Because of current macro-economic conditions, including continued disruptions in the broader capital markets and reduced demand for discretionary medical services, cash flow, access to credit, and budgets continue to deteriorate for many health care delivery organizations. While we believe we are well positioned through our product and service offerings to assist hospitals and health systems that are dealing with increasing and intense financial pressures, it is unclear what long-term effects the economic downturn will have on the healthcare industry and in turn on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to sustain high renewal rates on our memberships, our revenue and results of operations may suffer. We derive most of our revenue from renewable memberships in our discrete annual programs. Our prospects therefore depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on existing programs. Our success in securing renewals depends upon the continuity of our principal contacts at a member organization, our members’ budgetary environment, and our ability to deliver consistent, reliable, high-quality, and timely research, tools, and analysis with respect to issues, developments, and trends that members view as important. We may not be able to sustain the level of performance necessary to achieve a high rate of renewals and, as a result, may not increase or even maintain our revenue. If we are unable to maintain our reputation and expand our name recognition, we may have difficulty attracting new business and retaining current members. As a provider of best practices research, analysis, executive education, installation support, and business intelligence tools, we believe our professional reputation is an important factor in attracting and retaining our members and in building relationships with the progressive health care and education organizations that supply many of the best practices we feature in our research. We believe that establishing and maintaining a good reputation and name recognition are critical for attracting and retaining members. If our reputation is damaged or if potential members are not familiar with us or with the solutions we provide, we may be unable to attract new or retain existing members. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide effective solutions. Our brand name and reputation will suffer if members do not perceive our solutions to be effective or of high quality. In addition, if solutions we provide have inaccuracies or defects, we could suffer adverse publicity as well as economic liability. 15 Table of Contents If we are not able to offer new and valuable products and services, our revenue and results of operations may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to develop new products and services that serve specific constituencies, to anticipate changing market trends, and to adapt our research, tools, and analysis to meet the changing needs of our members. We may not be able to provide helpful and timely research and analysis of developments and trends in a manner that meets market needs. Any such failure also could cause some of our existing products and services to become obsolete, particularly in the health care industry where needs continue to rapidly evolve with the introduction of new and the obsolescence of old technology, changing payment systems and regulatory requirements, shifting strategies and market positions of major industry participants, and changing objectives and expectations of health care consumers. This environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our members with timely research, business intelligence and software tools, and installation support and management and advisory services around issues and topics of importance. As a result, we must continue to invest resources in development of new programs and services in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that members and potential members will want. Many of our member relationships are non-exclusive or terminable on short notice, or otherwise terminable after a specified term. If our new or modified product and service innovations are not responsive to user preferences or industry or regulatory changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing members, be unable to obtain new members, or incur impairment of capitalized software development assets, and our results of operations may suffer. In addition, because our programs offer a standardized set of services that allows us to spread our largely fixed program cost structure across our membership base of participating organizations, we may lose money on or terminate a program if we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of members in that program to cover the costs. Terminating a program could result in dissatisfaction among members of the terminated program, a loss of credibility with current and potential members, and an adverse effect on our results of operations. Future competition may adversely affect our business. We compete in discrete programs and for discretionary dollars against health care-focused, higher education-focused, and multi-industry business services firms. These include consulting and strategy firms; market research, data, benchmarking and forecasting providers; technology vendors and services firms; technology advisory firms; and specialized providers of educational and training services. Other entities, such as state and national trade associations, group purchasing organizations, non-profit think-tanks, and database companies, may also offer research, consulting, tools, and education services to health care and education organizations. These organizations include Accenture Ltd., Accretive Health, Inc., Broadlane, Deloitte & Touche LLP, Eclipsys Corporation, Emdeon Inc., Ernst & Young LLP, Huron Consulting, Inc., Ingenix, McKesson Corporation, McKinsey & Company, MedAssets, Inc., Navigant Consulting, Passport Health Communications, Inc. and Premier, Inc. We also compete with many smaller niche companies. A failure to adequately track, understand, or address competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, as part of a collaboration agreement between us and The Corporate Executive Board Company, through February 5, 2013, The Corporate Executive Board Company is generally prohibited from selling certain membership-based best practices research products and services to health care providers and education organizations. Upon expiration of the collaboration agreement’s noncompetition obligations, The Corporate Executive Board Company may sell membership-based best practices research programs in direct competition with some of our discrete programs. Direct competition with The Corporate Executive Board Company in these programs may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to hire, train, motivate, manage, and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees. Our future success depends upon our ability to hire, train, motivate, manage, and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees, particularly research analysts, technical experts, and sales and marketing staff. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competition for professional personnel from management consulting firms and other producers of research, technology, and analysis services. Hiring, training, motivating, managing, and retaining employees with the skills we need is time consuming and expensive. Any failure in this regard could hinder our ability to continue to provide high-quality research and other products and services, implement tools, or complete existing member engagements and attract new members. 16 Table of Contents We may experience significant delays in generating, or an inability to generate, revenue if potential members take a long time to evaluate our products and services. A key element of our strategy is to market our products and services directly to health care providers, such as health systems and acute care hospitals, and education institutions, such as colleges and research universities, to increase the number of our products and services utilized by existing members. We do not control many of the factors that will influence the decisions of these organizations regarding the purchase of our products and services. The evaluation process can sometimes be lengthy and could involve significant technical evaluation and commitment of personnel by these organizations. The use of our products and services may also be delayed due to reluctance to change or modify existing procedures. If we are unable to sell additional products and services to existing hospital, health system, and education members, or enter into and maintain favorable relationships with other health care providers or education organizations, our revenue could be materially adversely affected. Unsuccessful design or implementation of our business intelligence and software tools may harm our future financial success. Intellectual property development, application, and implementation can take long periods of time and require significant capital investments. If our intellectual property is less effective, cost-efficient, or attractive to our members than what they anticipate or does not function as expected or designed, we may not recover the development costs or our competitive position, operations, or financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, any defects in our business intelligence and software tools or other intellectual property could result in additional development costs, the diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, significant cost to resolve the defect, a loss of credibility with current and potential members, loss of members, harm to our reputation, risk of nonpayment, loss of revenue, and exposure to liability claims. We also rely on technology and implementation support provided by others in certain of our programs that offer business intelligence tools, and defects in their technology or their failures to provide timely and accurate services also could result in a loss of credibility with current or potential members, loss of members, harm to our reputation, risk of nonpayment, loss of revenue, and exposure to liability claims from those members. Unsuccessful implementation of our installation support and management and advisory services may harm our future financial success. Ten of our programs offer support to help accelerate the installation of best practices profiled in our research studies. Some of these programs are complex, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of failure by us or by the member to meet respective implementation responsibilities. If the member implementation process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, our relationships with some of our members and our results of operations may be impacted negatively. In addition, cancellation of any implementation of our products and services after it has begun may involve loss to us of time, effort, and resources invested in the cancelled implementation as well as lost opportunity for acquiring other members over that same period of time. These installation support memberships are not individually renewable. In order to maintain our annual revenue and contract value from these programs, we will have to enroll new members each year as other members complete their program terms. We may not be successful in selling these programs in the future. Lack of continued market acceptance of these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Federal and state privacy and security laws may increase the costs of operation and expose us to civil and criminal sanctions. We must comply with extensive federal and state requirements regarding the use, retention, and security of patient healthcare information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and the regulations that have been issued under it, which we refer to collectively as HIPAA, contain substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of individuals’ protected health information. These restrictions and requirements are set forth in the Privacy Rule and Security Rule portions of HIPAA. The HIPAA Privacy Rule prohibits a covered entity from using or disclosing an individual’s protected health information unless the use or disclosure is authorized by the individual or is specifically required or permitted under the Privacy Rule. The Privacy Rule imposes a complex system of requirements on covered entities for complying with this basic standard. Under the HIPAA Security Rule, covered entities must establish administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of electronic protected health information maintained or transmitted by them or by others on their behalf. 17 Table of Contents The HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules have historically applied directly to covered entities, such as our members who are healthcare providers that engage in HIPAA-defined standard electronic transactions. Because some of our members disclose protected health information to us so that we may use that information to provide certain services to them, we are a “business associate” of those members. In order to provide members with services that involve the use or disclosure of protected health information, the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules require us to enter into business associate agreements with our members. Such agreements must, among other things, provide adequate written assurances: • as to how we will use and disclose the protected health information; • that we will implement reasonable administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect such information from misuse; • that we will enter into similar agreements with our agents and subcontractors that have access to the information; • that we will report security incidents and other inappropriate uses or disclosures of the information; and • that we will assist the covered entity with certain of its duties under the Privacy Rule. In February 2009, the United States Congress enacted the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act, as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. With the enactment of the HITECH Act, the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA have been modified and expanded. The HITECH Act applies certain of the HIPAA privacy and security requirements directly to business associates of covered entities. In other words, we must now directly comply with certain aspects of the Privacy and Security Rules, and are also subject to enforcement for a violation of HIPAA standards. Significantly, the HITECH Act also establishes new mandatory federal requirements for both covered entities and business associates regarding notification of breaches of security involving protected health information. Any failure or perception of failure of our products or services to meet HIPAA standards and related regulatory requirements could expose us to certain notification, penalty, and/or enforcement risks and could adversely affect demand for our products and services, and force us to expend significant capital, and other resources to modify our products or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our members and HIPAA. In addition to our obligations under HIPAA, most states have enacted patient confidentiality laws that protect against the disclosure of confidential medical information, and many states have adopted or are considering adopting further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards, and data security breach notification requirements. These state laws, if more stringent than HIPAA requirements, are not preempted by the federal requirements, and we are required to comply with them as well. We are unable to predict what changes to HIPAA or other federal or state laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or the associated costs of compliance. For example, the federal Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology is coordinating the development of national standards for creating an interoperable health information technology infrastructure based on the widespread adoption of electronic health records in the healthcare sector. We are unable to predict what, if any, impact the creation of such standards will have on our products, services, or compliance costs. Failure by us to comply with any of the federal and state standards regarding patient privacy, identity theft prevention and detection, and data security may subject us to penalties, including civil monetary penalties and in some circumstances, criminal penalties. In addition, such failure may injure our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain existing members and attract new members. We may be liable to our members and may lose members if we are unable to collect and maintain member data or lose member data. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage from our members and other third parties and the increasing use of technology in our programs, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our processes or systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our members regard as significant. Furthermore, our ability to collect and report data may be interrupted or limited by a number of factors, including the failure of our 18 Table of Contents network, software systems, or business intelligence tools, security breaches, or the terms of our members’ contracts with their third party suppliers. In addition, computer viruses may harm our systems, causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. In addition to potential liability, if we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store, supply, utilize, and report information, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose existing members and experience difficulties in attracting new members. Failure by our members to obtain proper permissions and waivers may result in claims against us or may limit or prevent our use of data, which could harm our business. We require our members to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information that we receive, and we require contractual assurances from them that they have done so and will do so. If they do not obtain necessary permissions and waivers, then our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other laws. This could impair our functions, processes, and databases that reflect, contain, or are based upon such data and may prevent use of such data. In addition, this could interfere with or prevent creation or use of rules, and analyses or limit other data-driven activities that benefit us. Moreover, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of information by reason of lack of valid notice, permission, or waiver. These claims or liabilities could subject us to unexpected costs and adversely affect our operating results. If our products or services fail to provide accurate information, or if our content or any other element of our products or services is associated with incorrect, inaccurate or faulty coding, billing, or claims submissions to Medicare or any other third party payor, we could be liable to customers or the government which could adversely affect our business. Our products and content were developed based on the laws, regulations, and third party payor rules in existence at the time such software and content was developed. If we interpret those laws, regulations, or rules incorrectly; the laws, regulations, or rules materially change at any point after the software and content was developed; we fail to provide up-to-date, accurate information; or our products or services are otherwise associated with incorrect, inaccurate, or faulty coding, billing, or claims submissions, then members could assert claims against us or the government, or qui tam relators on behalf of the government could assert claims against us under the Federal False Claims Act or similar state laws. The assertion of such claims and ensuing litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs to us, divert management’s attention from operations, damage our reputation, and decrease market acceptance of our services. We attempt to limit by contract our liability to customers for damages. We cannot, however, limit liability the government could seek to impose on us under the False Claims Act. Further, the allocations of responsibility and limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable or otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Factors, including those beyond our control, could cause interruptions in our operations and may adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and our financial condition and results of operations. The timely development, implementation, and continuous and uninterrupted performance of our business intelligence tools, hardware, network, applications, the internet, and other systems, including those which may be provided by third parties, are important facets in our delivery of products and services to our members. Our ability to protect these processes and systems against unexpected adverse events is a key factor in continuing to offer our members our full complement of products and services on time in an uninterrupted manner. System failures that interrupt our ability to develop or provide our products and services could affect our members’ perception of the value of our products and services. Delays or interruptions in the delivery of our products and services could result from unknown data, software, or hardware defects, insufficient capacity, or the failure of our website hosting and telecommunications vendors to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on third party vendors to provide members with access to certain of our products and services. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption from a variety of sources, many of which are not within our control, such as (1) power loss and telecommunications failures, (2) software and hardware errors, failures, defects, or crashes, (3) computer viruses and similar disruptive problems, (4) fire, flood, and other natural disasters, (5) attacks on our network or damage to our business intelligence tools, software, and systems carried out by hackers or internet criminals, and (6) performance of third party vendors. Any significant interruptions in our products and services could damage our reputation and have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed if we are no longer able to license, resell, or integrate third party technologies and data. We depend upon licenses from third party vendors for some of the technology and data used in our business intelligence and software tools, for some of the technology platforms upon which these tools operate, and for some of our programs. We also use third party software to maintain and enhance, among other things, content generation and delivery, and to support our technology infrastructure. These technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual agreement and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay our ability to provide services until alternative technology can be identified, licensed, and integrated, which may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our third party licenses are non-exclusive, and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses to compete directly with us. Our use of third party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology, and the inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated procurement and maintenance costs. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions. Potential liability claims may adversely affect our business. Our services, which involve recommendations and advice to organizations regarding complex business and operational processes, regulatory and compliance issues, and labor practices, may give rise to liability claims by our members or by third parties who bring claims against our members. Health care and education organizations often are the subject of regulatory scrutiny and litigation, and we cannot assure that we would not also be the subject of such litigation based on our advice and services. Any such litigation, whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, may adversely affect our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that we would have adequate insurance coverage for claims against us or that our insurance will cover all types of claims. If the protection of our intellectual property is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our intellectual property and we may lose our competitive advantage. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as customary contractual protections with employees, contractors, members, and partners. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our rights and may not be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in any such litigation. Our financial condition and results of operations could be impacted negatively if we lose our competitive advantage because others were able to use our intellectual property. If we are alleged to have infringed on the proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated costs and be prevented from providing our products and services. As a publisher and distributor of original research and analysis, a user of third party content, and an on-line content provider, we face potential liability for trademark and copyright infringement and other claims based on the material we publish. While we do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future, and those claims may be successful. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our members, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate, cause us to incur substantial costs, harm our reputation and divert management resources and attention in defending the claim. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. In addition, licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services may become unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. 20 Table of Contents We may be exposed to loss of revenue resulting from our unconditional service guarantee. We offer an unconditional service guarantee in many of our membership programs. At any time, a member who has a service guarantee may request a refund of its membership fee. Refunds are provided on a pro rata basis relative to the remaining term of the membership. Requests for refunds of membership fees by a significant number of our members could lower revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any significant increase in bad debt in excess of recorded estimates would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations may incur unexpected losses from unforeseen exposures to member credit risk degradation. We initially evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable based on a number of factors, including a specific member’s ability to meet its financial obligations to us, the length of time the receivables are past due, and historical collections experience. Based on these assessments, we record a reserve for specific account balances as well as a general reserve based on our historical experience for bad debt to reduce the related receivables to the amount we expect to collect from members. If circumstances related to specific members change as a result of the current economic climate or otherwise, such as a limited ability to meet financial obligations due to bankruptcy, or if conditions deteriorate such that our past collection experience is no longer relevant, the amount of accounts receivable that we are able to collect may be less than our previous estimates as we experience bad debt in excess of reserves previously recorded. We may pursue acquisition opportunities, which could subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We evaluate potential acquisitions of complementary businesses on an ongoing basis and may from time to time pursue acquisition opportunities. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths, and weaknesses of these opportunities, or consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Future acquisitions may result in near term dilution to earnings, including potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or issuances of debt. Acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: • diverting of financial and management resources from existing operations; • incurring indebtedness and assuming additional liabilities, known and unknown, including liabilities relating to the use of intellectual property we acquire; • incurring significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses, and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; • experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization or impairment of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; • failing to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • entering new markets or marketing new products with which we are not entirely familiar; and • failing to retain key personnel of, vendors to, and clients of the acquired businesses. If we are unable to address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than on our primary product and service offerings. 21 Table of Contents We may invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. From time to time, we may make investments in companies to further their strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments could include equity or debt instruments in private companies, and many of these instruments may be non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. These companies range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. The companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. The current economic environment may increase the risk of failure of the companies in which we may invest due to limited access to credit and reduced frequency of liquidity events. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that impairment indicators exist and that there are other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of the investments, we may be required to write down the investments to their fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. Our investments will likely be concentrated in companies in the health care sector, and declines in this market or changes in management’s plans with respect to our investments in this market sector could result in significant impairment charges. Furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. Our investments in private companies may not be liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our results of operations. As of March 31, 2010, we hold approximately $5.0 million of such investments. We may not be able to fully realize our deferred tax assets. For tax purposes, we have deferred income tax assets consisting primarily of state income tax credit carry forwards. If our future taxable income is less than what we believe it will be, we may not be able to fully realize our deferred tax asset. In estimating future tax consequences, we do not consider the effect of future changes in existing tax laws or rates in the determination and evaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities until the new tax laws or rates are enacted. We have established our deferred income tax assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax laws and rates, including the estimated effects of our status as a Qualified High Technology Company (“QHTC”) on our Washington, D.C. deferred tax assets. We will recognize an adjustment to income for the impact of new tax laws or rates on the existing deferred tax assets and liabilities when and if new tax laws or rates are enacted that have an impact on our deferred income taxes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 