Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report. The following risks relate principally to our business and our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, which could also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant percentage of our sales, and any loss, cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by these customers could harm our business. A limited number of customers have, historically, consistently accounted for a significant portion of our sales. For example, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, Cisco and Alcatel-Lucent in aggregate accounted for 48.2% and 60.0% of sales, respectively. Additionally, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, NSN and Cisco each represented greater than 10% of StrataLight’s sales. For the quarter ended March 31, 2009, sales to Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco and NSN represented 68.5% of our total sales. Sales from any of our major customers may decline or fluctuate significantly in the future. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, the markets in which we sell our optical components products are dominated by a relatively small number of systems manufacturers, thereby limiting the number of our potential customers. Accordingly, our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers, and we expect that the majority of our sales will continue to depend on sales of our products to a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to offset any decline in sales from our existing major customers with sales from new customers or other existing customers. Because of our reliance on a limited number of customers, any decrease in sales from, or loss of, one or more of these customers without a corresponding increase in sales from other customers would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any negative developments in the business of existing significant customers could result in significantly decreased sales to these customers, which could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on contract manufacturers used by our customers for a significant portion of our sales. Many of our original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers, including Cisco, use third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture their networking systems. These contract manufacturers used by our customers represented 40.2% and 54.2% of our total sales for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Certain contract manufacturers purchase our products directly from us on behalf of networking OEMs. Although we work with our OEM customers in the design and development phases of their systems, these OEM customers are gradually giving contract manufacturers more authority in product purchasing decisions. As a result, we depend on a concentrated group of contract manufacturers for a significant portion of our sales. If we cannot compete effectively for the business of these contract manufacturers or if any of the contract manufacturers which work with 13 Table of Contents our OEM customers experience financial or other difficulties in their businesses, our sales and our business could be adversely affected. Uncertainty in customer forecasts of their demands and other factors may lead to delays and disruptions in manufacturing, which could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our business. Fluctuations and changes in our customers’ demand are common in our industry. Such fluctuations, as well as quality control problems experienced in our manufacturing operations or those of our third-party contract manufacturers, may cause us to experience delays and disruptions in our manufacturing process and overall operations and reduce our output capacity. As a result, product shipments could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers or could be cancelled, which would negatively affect our sales, operating income, strategic position at customers, market share and reputation. In addition, disruptions, delays or cancellations could cause inefficient production which in turn could result in higher manufacturing costs, lower yields and potential excess and obsolete inventory or manufacturing equipment. In the past, we have experienced such delays, disruptions and cancellations. We participate in vendor managed inventory programs for the benefit of certain of our customers, which could result in increased inventory levels and/or decreased visibility into the timing of sales. Certain of our more significant customers have implemented a supply chain management tool called vendor managed inventory (“VMI”) programs that require suppliers, such as Opnext, to assume responsibility for maintaining an agreed upon level of consigned inventory at the customer’s location or at a third-party logistics provider, based on the customer’s demand forecast. Notwithstanding the fact that the supplier builds and ships the inventory, the customer does not purchase the consigned inventory until the inventory is drawn or pulled from the customer or third-party location to be used in the manufacture of the customer’s product. Though the consigned inventory may be at the customer’s or third-party logistics provider’s physical location, it remains inventory owned by the supplier until the inventory is drawn or pulled, which is the time at which the sale takes place. Our participation in VMI programs could result in our experiencing higher levels of inventory than we might otherwise and decrease our visibility into the timing of when our finished goods will ultimately result in sales generating sales. Certain VMI programs, particularly any involving products considered to be standard products, may require us to commit to delivering certain quantities of our products to our customers as consigned inventory without the customers having committed to purchase any quantity of such products. Such VMI programs increase the likelihood that estimates of our customers’ requirements which prove to be greater than our customers’ actual purchases could result in surplus inventory and we could be required to record charges for obsolete or excess inventories. Some of our products and supplies have in the past become obsolete while in inventory because rapidly changing customer specifications or a decrease in customer demand. If we or our customers with whom we participate in VMI programs fail to accurately predict the demand for our products, we could incur additional excess and obsolete inventory write-downs. If we are unable to effectively manage the implementation of, and proper inventory management planning associated with, our customers’ VMI programs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If our customers do not qualify our products or if their customers do not qualify their products, our results of operations may suffer. Most of our customers do not purchase our products prior to qualification of our products and satisfactory completion of factory audits and vendor evaluation. Our existing products, as well as each new product, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. In addition, because of the rapid technological changes in our market, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacture of the product and receive revenues from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized custom design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty whether our customers will delay or terminate product qualification or the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, but any such delay, cancellation or modification could have a negative effect on our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents If network service providers that purchase systems from our customers fail to qualify or delay qualifications of any products sold by our customers that contain our products, our business could be harmed. The qualification and field testing of our customers’ systems by network service providers is long and unpredictable. This process is not under the control of our company or our customers, and, as a result, timing of our sales is unpredictable. Any unanticipated delay in qualification of one of our customers’ network systems could result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers for modules included in the applicable network system, which could harm our results of operations. We do not have long-term volume purchase contracts with our customers, so our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay their buying levels at any time with minimal advance notice to us, which may significantly harm our business. Our customers typically purchase our products pursuant to individual purchase orders. While our customers generally provide us with their demand forecasts, in most cases they are not contractually committed to buy any quantity of products. Our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place. If any of our major customers decrease, stop or delay purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Cancellation or delays of such orders may cause us to fail to achieve our short and long-term financial and operating goals. In the past, during periods of severe market downturns, certain of our largest customers cancelled significant orders with us and our competitors, which resulted in losses of sales and excess and obsolete inventory and led to inventory and asset disposals throughout the industry. More recently, as the global economic recession that began in late 2007 has deepened, particularly affecting the credit markets as well as equity markets, certain of our largest customers have cancelled significant, previously committed purchase orders resulting in the loss of sales and excess and obsolete inventory for us and increasing the difficulties associated with accurately forecasting future sales. Similar or continued decreases, deferrals or cancellations of purchases by our customers may significantly harm our industry and specifically our business in these and in additional unforeseen ways, particularly if they are not anticipated. We may experience low manufacturing yields or higher than expected costs. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the stability and manufacturability of the product design, manufacturing improvements gained over cumulative production volumes, the quality and consistency of component parts and the nature and extent of customization requirements by customers. Higher volume demand for more mature designs requiring less customization generally results in higher manufacturing yields than products with lower volumes, less mature designs and requiring extensive customization. Capacity constraints, raw materials shortages, logistics issues, the introduction of new product lines and changes in our customer requirements, manufacturing facilities or processes or those of our third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers have historically caused, and may in the future cause, significantly reduced manufacturing yields, negatively impacting the gross margins on and our production capacity for those products. Our ability to maintain sufficient manufacturing yields is particularly important with respect to certain products we manufacture, such as lasers and photodetectors as a result of the long manufacturing process. Moreover, an increase in the rejection and rework rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture would result in lower yields, gross margins and production capacity. Finally, manufacturing yields and margins can also be lower if we receive and inadvertently use defective or contaminated materials from our suppliers. Because a significant portion of our manufacturing costs is relatively fixed, manufacturing yields may have a significant effect on our results of operations. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could delay product shipments and decrease our sales and operating profit. For example, in the quarter ended March 31, 2009, we experienced certain optical chip and TOSA yield issues resulting in higher than expected costs and a loss of anticipated sales. 15 Table of Contents There is a limited number of potential suppliers for certain components. In addition, we depend on a limited number of suppliers whose components have been qualified into our products and who could disrupt our business if they stop, decrease or delay shipments or if the components they ship have quality or consistency issues. We may also face component shortages if we experience increased demand for modules and components beyond what our qualified suppliers can deliver. Our customers generally restrict our ability to change the component parts in our modules without their approval, which for less critical components may require as little as a specification comparison and for more critical components, such as lasers, photodetectors and key integrated circuits, as much as repeating the entire qualification process. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of key components we have qualified to use in the manufacture of certain of our products. Some of these components are available only from a sole source or have been qualified only from a single supplier. We typically have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers and, therefore, our suppliers could stop supplying materials and equipment at any time or fail to supply adequate quantities of component parts on a timely basis. It is difficult, costly, time consuming and, on short notice, sometimes impossible for us to identify and qualify new component suppliers. The reliance on a sole supplier, single qualified vendor or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery and quality problems, reduced control over product pricing, reliability and performance and an inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. In the past, we have had to change suppliers, which has, in some instances, resulted in delays in product development and manufacturing until another supplier was found and qualified. Any such delays in the future may limit our ability to respond to changes in customer and market demands. During the last several years, the number of suppliers of components has decreased significantly and, more recently, demand for components has increased rapidly. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of components we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. We rely substantially upon a limited number of contract manufacturing partners and, if these contract manufacturers fail to meet our short and long-term needs and contractual obligations, our business may be negatively impacted. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to assemble, manufacture and test the majority of our finished goods. The qualification and set up of these independent manufacturers under quality assurance standards is an expensive and time-consuming process. Certain of our independent manufacturers have a limited history of manufacturing optical modules or components. In the past, we have experienced delays or other problems, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantity of product and an inability to meet cost targets, which have led to delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders. Additionally, we have, in the past, been required to qualify new contract manufacturing partners and replace contract manufacturers, which led to delays in deliveries. Any future interruption in the operations of these manufacturers, or any deficiency in the quality, quantity or timely delivery of the components or products built for us by these manufacturers, could impede our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers or require us to contract with and qualify new contract manufacturing partners. As a result, we may lose existing or potential customers or orders and our business may be negatively impacted. We depend on facilities located outside of the United States to manufacture our products, which subjects us to additional risks. In addition to our two manufacturing facilities in Japan, we rely on contract manufacturers located in Asia and elsewhere for our supply of key products and we intend to further expand our use of contract manufacturers outside the United States. Each of these facilities and manufacturers subjects us to additional risks associated with international manufacturing, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • legal uncertainties regarding liabilities, tariffs and other trade barriers; • inadequate protection of intellectual property in some countries; • greater incidence of shipping delays, including, but not limited to, as a result of customs delays; 16 Table of Contents • greater difficulty in overseeing manufacturing operations, including, but not limited to, the levels of inventory maintained at our and our contract manufacturers’ facilities; • greater difficulty in hiring talent needed to oversee manufacturing operations; • potential political and economic instability; and • the outbreak of infectious diseases which could result in travel restrictions or the closure of our facilities or the facilities of our customers and suppliers. Any of these factors could significantly impair our ability to source our contract manufacturing requirements internationally. We face increasing competition from other providers of competing products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and market share. We believe that a number of companies have developed or are developing transmit and receive optical modules and components and lasers and infrared LEDs that compete directly with our product offerings. Current and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and manufacturing resources than we possess, and there can be no assurance that our current and future competitors will not be more successful than us in specific product lines or as a whole. Competition has intensified as additional competitors enter the market and current competitors expand their product lines. The industry has experienced an increase in low-cost providers of certain product lines. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are more competitively priced, have greater performance, functionality or reliability, or our competitors may have stronger customer relationships, and may be able to react quicker to changing customer requirements and expectations. Increased competitive pressure has in the past and may in the future result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. A reduction in pricing for any existing or future customers may result in reduced pricing for other existing or future customers since our customers’ pricing is established pursuant to pricing agreements of not more than one year in duration or upon receipt of purchase orders. All of the pricing agreements with our customers provide either that prices will be set at invoicing or at various intervals during the year or require us to offer our existing customers the most favorable pricing terms. All of these situations enable our customers to frequently negotiate based upon prevailing market price trends. As product prices decline, our average selling prices and operating profits would decline. Because certain of our competitors have longer operating histories and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and stronger strategic alliances than we have, these companies have the ability to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. For example, in the telecommunications and data communications markets, some of our competitors offer broader product portfolios by supplying passive components or a broader range of lower speed transceivers. Other competitors may also have preferential access to certain network systems vendors or offer directly competitive products that may have certain better performance measures than our products. In addition, our competitors that have large market capitalizations or cash reserves may be better positioned than we are to acquire other companies to gain new technologies or products that may compete with our product lines. Any of these factors could give our competitors a strategic advantage. Therefore, although we believe we currently compete favorably with our competitors, we cannot be assured that we will be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors in the future. Decreases in average selling prices of our products may reduce operating profit and net income, particularly if we are not able to reduce our expenses commensurately. The market for optical components continues to be characterized by declining average selling prices resulting from factors such as increased price competition among optical component manufacturers, excess capacity, the introduction of new products and increased unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy network and storage systems. Recently, we have observed a modest acceleration in the decline of average selling prices. We anticipate that average selling prices will continue to decrease in the future in response to product introductions by our 17 Table of Contents competitors or us, or in response to other factors, including price pressures from significant customers. In order to sustain profitable operations, we must, therefore, continue to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Failure to do so could cause our sales and operating profit to decline. In the current environment of declining average selling prices, and especially when such declines appear to be accelerating, we must continually seek ways to reduce our costs to maintain our operating profit and net income. Our cost reduction efforts may not allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures. To remain competitive, we must continually reduce the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes. We may not be successful in redesigning our products or delivering our products to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that any redesign will result in sufficient cost reductions enabling us to reduce the price of our products to remain competitive or maintain our operating profit and net income. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in operating income and net income. Our gross profit margins vary among our product families, and are generally higher on our 40G and longer distance 10G products. Our optical products sold for longer-distance applications typically have higher gross margins than our products for shorter-distance applications. Our gross margins are generally lower for newly introduced products and improve as unit volumes increase. Our overall operating income has fluctuated from period to period as a result of shifts in product mix, the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices for older products and our ability to reduce product costs, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in the future. If demand for optical systems, particularly for 10Gbps and above network systems, does not continue to expand as expected, our business will suffer. Our future success as a manufacturer of transmit and receive optical modules, components and subsystems ultimately depends on the continued growth of the communications industry and, in particular, the continued expansion of global information networks, particularly those directly or indirectly dependent upon a fiber optics infrastructure. The continued uncertainties in the communications industry and the global economy make it difficult for us to anticipate sales levels. Continued uncertain demand for optical components would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Currently, while increasing demand for network services and for broadband access, in particular, is apparent, growth is limited by several factors, including, among others, the current global economic recession, an uncertain regulatory environment, reluctance from content providers to supply video and audio content because of insufficient copy protection and uncertainty regarding long-term sustainable business models as multiple industries (cable TV, traditional telecommunications, wireless, satellite, etc.) offer competing content delivery solutions. Ultimately, if long-term expectations for network growth and bandwidth demand are not realized or do not support a sustainable business model, our business would be significantly harmed. Our products may contain defects that may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts, result in a loss of customers and may possibly result in product liability claims. Our products are complex and undergo quality testing as well as formal qualification by both our customers and us. However, defects may be found from time to time. Our customers’ testing procedures are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios and over varying amounts of time. For various reasons (including, among others, the occurrence of performance problems that are unforeseeable in testing or that are detected only when products age or are operated under peak stress conditions), our products may fail to perform as expected long after customer acceptance. Failures could result from faulty components or design, problems in manufacturing or other unforeseen reasons. As a result, we could incur significant costs to repair and/or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. In addition, certain of our customer contracts require that, in addition to correcting the failure with the product, we reimburse the customer for the costs and expenses incurred by the customer in connection with an “epidemic failure” of our product. An epidemic failure with respect to a particular product generally occurs when in excess of a specified percentage of such installed products exhibit a failure of the same root cause within a certain specified time period. We have experienced such failures in the past and will continue to face this risk going forward, as our products are widely 18 Table of Contents deployed throughout the world in multiple demanding environments and applications. In addition, we may in certain circumstances honor warranty claims after the warranty has expired or for problems not covered by warranty in order to maintain customer relationships. We have in the past increased our warranty reserves and have incurred significant expenses relating to certain communications products. Any significant product failure could result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as severe customer relations problems, litigation and damage to our reputation. In addition, our products are typically embedded in, or deployed in conjunction with, our customers’ products, which incorporate a variety of components and may be expected to interoperate with modules produced by third parties. As a result, not all defects are immediately detectable and, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects. Any defects could, moreover, impair the market’s acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, we incurred a $1.0 million warranty charge to cover anticipated future costs associated with replacing defective 40Gbps Digital Mux/Demux integrated circuits purchased from an external supplier that were included in 40Gpbs transceivers previously sold to our customers. Our market is subject to rapid technological change and, to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance or our business may be significantly harmed. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards, all with an underlying pressure to reduce cost and meet stringent reliability and qualification requirements. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost-effective bandwidth increases. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. In addition, a slowdown in demand for existing products ahead of a new product introduction could result in a write-down in the value of inventory on hand related to existing products. We have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products and delays in new product development, and such delays may occur in the future. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for existing products for any reason, our operating results would suffer. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • unanticipated engineering complexities; • delays in or denials of membership in future MSAs that become successful, or membership in and product development for MSAs that do not become successful; • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and • changing market or competitive product requirements. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot make any assurance that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product introductions by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, to license 19 Table of Contents these technologies from third parties, or to stay competitive in our markets. Any failure to respond to technological changes could significantly harm our business. Our products are complex and may take longer to develop and qualify than anticipated and we may not recognize sales from new products until after long customer qualification periods. We are constantly developing new products and using new technologies in these products. These products often take substantial time to develop because of their complexity, rigorous testing and qualification requirements and because customer and market requirements can change during the product development or qualification process. Such activity requires significant spending by us. Because of the long development cycle and qualification process, we may not sell any of the new products until long after such expenditures are made. In the telecommunications market, there are stringent and comprehensive reliability and qualification requirements for optical networking systems. In the data communications industry, qualifications can also be stringent and time-consuming. However, these requirements are less uniform than those found in the telecommunications industry from application to application and systems vendor to systems vendor. At the component level, such as for new lasers, the development cycle may be lengthy and may not result in a product that can be utilized cost-effectively in our modules or that meets customer and market requirements. Additionally, we often incur substantial costs associated with the research and development and sales and marketing activities in connection with products that may be purchased long after we have incurred the costs associated with designing, creating and selling such products. If we fail to obtain the right to use others’ intellectual property rights necessary to operate our business, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected. Numerous patents in our industry are held by others, including our competitors and certain academic institutions. Our competitors may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. For example, on March 31, 2008, Furukawa Electric Co. (“Furukawa”) filed a complaint against Opnext Japan, Inc. (“Opnext Japan”), alleging that certain laser diode modules sold by Opnext Japan infringe Furukawa’s Japanese Patent No. 2,898,643. The complaint seeks an injunction as well as 300 million yen in royalty damages. While we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the asserted claims, there can be no assurance that this action will not result in a material recovery against, or expenses to, us. In the future, we may need to obtain license rights to patents or other intellectual property held by others to the extent necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit sales of our existing products and the development of new products for our markets. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Our competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to obtain a license from a third-party, or successfully defeat their infringement claim, we could be required to: • cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products, processes or technology; • pay substantial damages for past, present and future use of the infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or • pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to discontinue use or replace infringing technology with non-infringing technology. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We license our intellectual property to Hitachi and its wholly-owned subsidiaries without restriction. In addition, Hitachi is free to license certain of Hitachi’s intellectual property that we use in our business to any third-party, including our competitors, which could harm our business and operating results. We were initially created as a stand-alone entity by acquiring certain assets of Hitachi through various transactions. In connection with these transactions, we acquired a number of patents and know-how from Hitachi, but also granted Hitachi and its wholly-owned subsidiaries a perpetual right to continue to use those patents and know-how, as well as other patents and know-how that we develop during a period ending in July 2011 (and October 2012 in certain cases). This license back to Hitachi is broad and permits Hitachi to use this intellectual property for any products or services anywhere in the world, including to compete with Opnext. Additionally, while significant intellectual property owned by Hitachi was assigned to us when the Company was formed, Hitachi retained and only licensed to us the intellectual property rights to underlying technologies used in both our products and the products of Hitachi. Under the agreement, Hitachi remains free to license these intellectual property rights to the underlying technologies to any party, including our competitors. The intellectual property that has been retained by Hitachi and that can be licensed in this manner does not relate solely or primarily to one or more of our products, or groups of products; rather, the intellectual property that is licensed to us by Hitachi is generally used broadly across our entire product portfolio. Competition by third parties using the underlying technologies retained by Hitachi could harm our business and operating results. Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our business. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and internal procedures, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Although a number of patents have been issued to us and we have obtained a number of other patents as a result of our acquisitions, we cannot assure you that our issued patents will be upheld if challenged by another party. Additionally, with respect to any patent applications that we have filed, we cannot assure you that any patents will issue as a result of these applications. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it. Pursuing infringers of our intellectual property rights can be costly. Pursuing infringers of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to pursue infringers could result in our competitors utilizing our technology and offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased sales. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Protecting our intellectual property is difficult especially after our employees or those of our third-party contract manufacturers end their employment or engagement. We may have employees leave us and go to work for competitors. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or prevent others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The resulting costs and diversion of resources could significantly harm our business. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could be prevented from selling our products, or suffer significant litigation expense, even if these claims have no merit. Our competitive position is driven in part by our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Third parties, however, may claim that we, or our products, operations or any products or technology we obtain from other parties are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of 21 Table of Contents others that may cover some of our assets, technology and products. There may be third parties that refrained from asserting intellectual property infringement claims against our products or processes while we were a majority-owned subsidiary of Hitachi that may elect to pursue such claims now that we are no longer a majority-owned subsidiary of Hitachi. For example, on March 31, 2008, Furukawa filed a complaint against Opnext Japan, alleging that certain laser diode modules sold by Opnext Japan infringe Furukawa’s Japanese Patent No. 2,898,643. The complaint seeks an injunction as well as 300 million yen in royalty damages. While we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the asserted claims, there can be no assurances that this action will not result in a material recovery against, or expenses to, us. In addition, from time to time we receive letters from third parties that allege we are infringing their intellectual property and asking us to license such intellectual property, and we review the merits of each letter. Any litigation regarding patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, even those without merit, could be costly and time consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. The complexity of the technology involved and inherent uncertainty and cost of intellectual property litigation increases our risks. If any third-party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or manufacturing processes or enter into licensing arrangement with third parties, which may be costly or impractical, particularly in the event we are subject to a contractual commitment to continue supplying impacted products to our customers. This also may require us to stop selling our products as currently engineered, which could harm our competitive position. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that prevent the further development and sale of certain of our products or services and may result in a material decrease in sales. Our future operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to foreign currency exchange risks. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect our sales and our costs and expenses and significantly affect our operating results. Portions of our sales are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally the Japanese yen and the euro. In addition, a substantial portion of our cost of sales is denominated in Japanese yen and portions of our operating expenses are denominated in Japanese yen and euros. As a result, we bear the risk that fluctuations in the exchange rates of these currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar could decrease our total sales, increase our costs and expenses and therefore have a negative effect on future operating results. If we fail to retain our senior management and other key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including the members of our senior management team and key technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of services of members of our senior management team or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competition for highly skilled technical personnel is extremely intense and we continue to experience difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel in many areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain qualified personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. On April 1, 2009, we announced certain plans to reduce our cost structure and operating expenses in response to current economic conditions, including, but not limited to, a ten percent reduction in executive salaries for a period of not less than six months and a five percent reduction in the salaries for other employees. There can be no assurance that such measures will not adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key personnel. In addition, some of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have. Further, in making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our stock could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain technical personnel. 22 Table of Contents The anticipated benefits of the merger with StrataLight may not be realized fully, or realized at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Achieving the potential benefits of the merger with StrataLight depends in substantial part on the successful integration of the two companies’ technologies, operations and personnel. We face significant challenges in integrating StrataLight’s organization and operations in a timely and efficient manner. Some of the challenges involved in this integration include: • demonstrating to customers that the merger will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and helping customers conduct business; • consolidating and rationalizing administrative infrastructures; • integrating product offerings; • coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively communicate our capabilities to customers; • coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies with reduced cost; and • preserving important relationships of both Opnext and StrataLight and resolving potential conflicts that may arise. The integration of StrataLight will be a complex, time consuming and expensive process and will require significant attention from management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from our day-to-day business. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties associated with integrating StrataLight into Opnext could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and the value of our shares, and could result in our not achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger. Even if we are able to integrate StrataLight’s business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may not achieve strategic objectives, anticipated synergies and cost savings and other potential benefits of the merger with StrataLight. We expect to realize strategic and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the merger, including, among other things, certain cost and sale synergies. However, we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which these benefits will actually be achieved or the timing of any such benefits. The following factors, among others, may prevent us from realizing these benefits: • our inability to increase product sales; • unfavorable customer reaction to the our company’s products; • competitive factors, including technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to or contested by competitors, which would enhance their ability to compete against us; • the failure of key markets for our products to develop to the extent or as rapidly as currently expected; • changes in technology that increase the number of competitors that we face or require us to make significant capital expenditures to develop competitive products; and • the failure to retain key employees. Failure to achieve the strategic objectives of the merger could have a material adverse effect on our sales, levels of expenses and operating results and could result in our not achieving the anticipated potential benefits of the merger and could cause dilution for our earnings per share or decrease the expected accretive effect of the merger. In addition, we cannot assure you that our future growth rate will equal the historical growth rate, in particular in light of the current economic environment. 23 Table of Contents Potential future acquisitions may not generate the results expected, could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of companies, technologies and products that we believe could accelerate our ability to compete in our core markets or allow us to enter new markets. For example, on January 9, 2009, we completed the merger with StrataLight. If we fail to manage our future growth effectively, in particular during periods of industry uncertainty, our business could suffer. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the manufacturing, operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we actually realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity or for our existing operations; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the acquired company’s business; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the acquired company’s products; • inability to generate sufficient revenue and profitability to offset acquisition costs; • equity-based acquisitions may have a dilutive effect on our stock; and • inability to successfully consummate transactions with identified acquisition candidates. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $62.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 in connection with the merger with StrataLight, which represented the full amount of goodwill recorded in connection with such merger. If we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. Our customers may reduce capital expenditures and have difficulty satisfying liquidity needs because of the continued turbulence in the U.S. and global economies, resulting in reduced sales of our products and harming our financial condition and results of operations. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to market volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. This turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies has caused certain of our network system vendor customers, as well as their network service provider customers, to delay, reduce or cancel capital expenditures. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business consumer spending may adversely affect 24 Table of Contents our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. We depend on Hitachi for assistance with our research and development efforts. Any failure of Hitachi to provide these services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our product expertise is based on our research ability developed within our Hitachi heritage and through joint research and development in lasers and optical technologies. A key factor to our business success and strategy is fundamental laser research. We rely on access to Hitachi’s research laboratories pursuant to a research and development agreement with Hitachi, which includes access to Hitachi’s research facilities and engineers, to conduct research and development activities that are important to the establishment of new technologies and products vital to our current and future business. Our research and development agreement with Hitachi and Opnext Japan’s research and development agreement with Hitachi will both expire on February 20, 2012. Should access to Hitachi’s research laboratories be unavailable or available at less attractive terms in the future, this may impede development of new technologies and products, and our results could be materially adversely affected. Hitachi, Marubeni and Clarity could collectively control the outcome of shareholder actions in our company. As of June 1, 2009 Hitachi held a 32.2%, Marubeni Corporation and Marubeni America Corporation (collectively, “Marubeni”) held a 8.5% and Clarity Partners, L.P. and Clarity Opnext Holdings II, LLC (collectively, “Clarity”) held a 7.4% equity interest in our company, respectively. In addition, Hitachi and Clarity Management, L.P. each hold options to purchase 1,010,000 and 1,000,000 shares of our common stock, respectively, which are fully vested. Their equity shareholdings give them the power to collectively control many or all actions that require shareholder approval, including the election of our board of directors. Significant corporate actions, including the incurrence of material indebtedness or the issuance of a material amount of equity securities may require the consent of our shareholders. Hitachi, Marubeni and Clarity, collectively or individually, might oppose any action that would dilute their respective equity interests in our company, and may be unable or unwilling to participate in future financings of our company and thereby materially harm our business and prospects. We may have conflicts of interest with Hitachi and, because of Hitachi’s significant ownership interest in our company, may not be able to resolve such interests on favorable terms for us. For example, Hitachi has another majority-owned subsidiary, Hitachi Cable, Ltd., that directly competes with us in certain 10Gbps 300 pin and LX4 applications and certain SFP applications. These product categories accounted for less than 15% of our sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Business disruptions resulting from international uncertainties could negatively impact our profitability. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our sales from international sales in various markets. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including, but not limited to: • different technical standards or requirements, such as country or region-specific requirements to eliminate the use of lead; • difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in more than one country; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • fewer legal protections for intellectual property; • fluctuations in foreign economies; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; • domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future; 25 Table of Contents • limitations on travel engendered by the outbreak of diseases, such as the avian bird influenza and the swine influenza, and any other widespread public health problems; and • different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. The risks provided above impact our business in the countries in which we operate including Japan and Europe, which constitute a significant portion of our international operations. For example, the European Union enforced a mandatory requirement through a directive concerning the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS 2002/95/EC), which required us to make changes to our product line on a global basis to comply with the European directive, and may do so again in the future. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, difficulties in producing and delivering our products, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside of our control. Our business and operating results are vulnerable to interruption by events outside of our control, particularly possible earthquakes which may affect our factories or facilities in Japan or California or the facilities of our contract manufacturers or critical vendors. Other possible disruptions include: fire, volcanic activity, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, political instability, military conflict and uncertainties arising from terrorist attacks, including a global economic slowdown, the economic consequences of additional military action or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the effect of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. In the event of an economic downturn, we may not be able to reduce costs fast enough and, specifically, we may be hampered in eliminating employees in foreign jurisdictions because of foreign labor regulations. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations include the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to various U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use of hazardous substances, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and the maintenance of a safe workplace. For example, the European Union enforced a mandatory requirement through a directive concerning the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS 2002/95/EC), which required us to make changes to our product line on a global basis to comply with the European directive, and may do so again in the future. A rework or repair expense may be incurred if non-qualifying products are shipped in non-compliance with such directives. These costs may exceed compensation from parts suppliers, and could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results overall. In the future, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. We have recently been the target of securities class action complaints and are at risk of future securities class action litigation. The pending claims or any additional litigation could result in substantial costs to us, drain our resources and divert our management’s time and attention. On February 20, 2008, a putative class action captioned Bixler v. Opnext, Inc., et al. (D.N.J. Civil Action # 3:08-cv-00920) was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against us and certain of our directors and officers, alleging, inter alia, that the registration statement and prospectus issued in connection with our initial public offering on February 14, 2007 contained material misrepresentations in violation of federal securities laws. On March 7 and 20, 2008, two additional putative class actions were filed in the District of New Jersey, similarly alleging, inter alia, that federal securities laws had been violated by virtue of alleged material misrepresentations in our registration statement and prospectus. Those complaints, captioned Coleman v. Opnext, Inc., et al. (D.N.J. Civil Action # 3:08-cv-01222) and Johnson v. Opnext, Inc., et al. (D.N.J. Civil Action No. 3:08-cv-01451), respectively, named as defendants our company, certain of our present and former directors and officers (the “Individual Defendants”), our independent auditor and the underwriters. 26 Table of Contents Motions were filed by several of our present and former shareholders seeking (1) to consolidate the Bixler, Coleman, and Johnson cases; (2) to be appointed lead plaintiff; and (3) to have their counsel appointed by the court as lead counsel for the putative class. On May 22, 2008, the court issued an order consolidating Bixler, Coleman, and Johnson under Civil Action No. 08-920 (JAP) ) and, on July 30, 2008, the Consolidated Complaint was filed. The defendants in the consolidated action, which include Opnext and the Individual Defendants, responded to the Consolidated Complaint, denying the material allegations and asserting various affirmative defenses, on October 21, 2008. On November 6, 2008, Opnext’s independent auditor was voluntarily dismissed from the action by plaintiff without prejudice. The court has stayed all proceedings in this matter, including discovery, as Opnext, the Individual Defendants, and plaintiff continue to engage in settlement discussions. If settlement discussions are unsuccessful, Opnext intends to defend itself and the Individual Defendants vigorously in this litigation. While we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, we believe that we and the Individual Defendants have meritorious defenses to the asserted claims. There can be no assurance, however, that this action will not result in a material recovery against, or expense to, us. We expect to incur legal fees in responding to this lawsuit and the expense of defending this, or any additional litigation which may arise, may be significant. The amount of time to resolve this lawsuit, or any additional lawsuits, is unpredictable and such litigation may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. A lack of effective internal control over financial reporting could result in an inability to accurately report our financial results, which could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, deficiencies in our internal controls. For example, as more fully described in Item 9A of the Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, our management concluded that in the course of preparing our financial statements for the quarter ended December 31, 2007, errors occurred in the valuation of inventory consigned to one of our contract manufacturers and that, as a result, our inventory and trade payables balances and the reported amounts of cost of goods sold and other income (expense), net, were not properly reported for each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, and for the quarters beginning September 30, 2005 through March 31, 2007, and our inventory and trade payables balances and the reported amount of cost of goods sold were not properly reported for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. As a result of these errors, we restated our audited financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, and filed an Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 to restate these financial statements, as well as an Amendment No. 1 to our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007. These restatements caused our management to conclude that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting because the controls did not identify the errors on a timely basis. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2008, our management implemented processes and procedures that it believes remediated this weakness. As a result, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was operating effectively as of March 31, 2008 and for each subsequent quarterly period through the year ended March 31, 2009. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and our stock price, and we could be subject to further stockholder litigation and the costs associated therewith. Prior to the closing of our merger with StrataLight, StrataLight’s independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in StrataLight’s internal control over financial reporting. The identified material weaknesses included a lack of adequate financial statement resources and the lack of an appropriate level of qualified accounting staff, which resulted in a failure to adequately maintain books and records relating to non-recurring engineering arrangements and incorrect accounting for complex or unusual transactions. StrataLight also had a material weakness with respect to inconsistency in the effectiveness of the 27 Table of Contents review over the inputs and analysis of warranty reserve, labor and overhead capitalization and inventory valuation. These material weaknesses were identified by StrataLight’s independent registered public accounting firm in connection with the audit of its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, along with other matters involving its internal controls that constituted significant deficiencies and control deficiencies. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors or material misstatements in financial statements. If we are unable to remediate StrataLight’s material weaknesses, we may have difficulty in reporting our future financial results accurately and in a timely fashion. Because of the size of StrataLight in relation to Opnext, any errors resulting from StrataLight’s material weaknesses, significant deficiencies or control deficiencies could result in material misstatements to our future financial statements, which could cause an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter as the result of a number of factors, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly sales and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as market analysts and investors respond to these quarterly fluctuations. These fluctuations are attributable to numerous factors, including: • fluctuations in demand for our products; • the timing, size and product mix of sales of our products; • our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner; • quality control problems in our manufacturing operations; • fluctuations in our manufacturing yields; • length and variability of the sales cycles of our products; • new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors and ourselves; • changes in our pricing and sales policies or the pricing and sales policies of our competitors; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; • unanticipated increase in costs and expenses; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These events are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other events, could materially adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature because of our internal manufacturing, research and development, sales and general administrative efforts. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a sales shortfall could magnify the adverse impact of such sales shortfall on our results of operations. For example, for the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, we incurred net losses of $118.8 million and $14.5 million, respectively. In part in response to such losses, on April 1, 2009, we announced certain plans to reduce our cost structure and operating expenses, including, but not limited to: an approximate ten percent reduction in our global workforce and elimination of cash bonuses for the year ended March 31, 2009; a ten percent reduction in executive salaries and director cash compensation, a five percent reduction in salaries for other employees, and suspension of our matching contribution to the 401(k) plan, each for a period of not less than 6 months. There can be no assurance, however, that these actions will result in the desired cost savings or that such cost savings, if achieved, will be sufficient to permit us to achieve profitability. Because many of the factors referenced above are beyond our control, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a reliable indication of our future performance, and you should not rely on our results or growth for any single quarter as an indication of our future performance. Moreover, our operating results may not meet our announced guidance or expectations of equity research analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. 28 Table of Contents The price of our common stock is highly volatile and may continue to fluctuate substantially which could result in substantial losses for our investors. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in February 2007, and is likely to remain volatile in the future. For example, since the date of our initial public offering, our common stock has closed as low as $1.30 and as high as $18.71 per share. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; • conditions and trends in the markets we serve; • announcements of significant new products by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • legislation or regulatory policies, practices, or actions; • the commencement or outcome of litigation; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future, or sales of our common stock by our principal stockholders; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • the trading volume of our common stock; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; • general economic conditions; and • material weaknesses in internal controls. In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents and Delaware Law could make an acquisition of our company difficult. Certain provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; • provide that a supermajority vote of our stockholders is required to amend some portions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws; • establish advance notice requirements to nominate persons for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • provide for the filling of vacancies on our board of directors by action of a majority of the directors and not by the stockholders. 29 Table of Contents These and other provisions in our organizational documents could allow our board of directors to affect the rights of our stockholders in a number of ways, including making it difficult for stockholders to replace members of the board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for approving the appointment of members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. These provisions could also limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock which could have the effect of delaying, deferring or prohibiting a merger or other takeover or a change of control of our company. Generally, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years after the time that the stockholder acquired our common stock, subject to certain exceptions. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited. As of March 31, 2009, we had approximately $159 million and $120 million of net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards available for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes, respectively, to offset our future taxable income. If we were to experience an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or under any comparable provision of state tax law (“Section 382”), the NOL carryforward limitations under Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of the future taxable income that may be offset by our NOL carryforwards and certain built-in deductions generated prior to the ownership change for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes. In general, an ownership change occurs for purposes of Section 382 when, as of any testing date, the percentage of stock of the corporation owned by the corporation’s 5% stockholders has increased by more than 50 percentage points in the aggregate over the lowest aggregate percentage of stock owned by the 5% stockholders at any time during the testing period (generally, the three-year period preceding the testing date). For these purposes, a 5% stockholder is generally any person or group of persons that at any time during the applicable testing period has owned 5% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, persons who own less than 5% of the outstanding common stock are grouped together as one or more “public groups,” which are also treated as 5% stockholders. Under Section 382, stock ownership would be determined under complex attribution rules and generally includes shares held directly, indirectly (though intervening entities) and constructively (by certain related parties and certain unrelated parties acting as a group). As of June 8, 2009, we have experienced a cumulative shift in ownership of our stock equal to approximately 49% (calculated in the manner prescribed by Section 382). If we were to experience an ownership change for Section 382 purposes, our ability to use our NOL carryforwards and certain built-in deductions to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes may be significantly limited, which could adversely affect our liquidity, earnings per share and the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 