ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. Westfield Bank originates commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. In recent years, Westfield Bank has developed and implemented a lending strategy that focuses less on residential real estate lending and more on servicing commercial customers, including increased emphasis on commercial and industrial lending and commercial deposit relationships. Commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: o Commercial and Industrial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business. o Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. o Consumer Loans. Consumer loans are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage or loss. 40 Any downturn in the real estate market or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower's business, thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our commercial real estate loans. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our commercial borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. In addition, if poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than loans. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease of our net interest income. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Changes in the national and local economy may affect our future growth possibilities. Our current market area is principally located in Hampden County, Massachusetts. Our future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of our regional economy and our ability to expand our market area. A downturn in our local economy may limit funds available for deposit and may negatively affect our borrowers' ability to repay their loans on a timely basis, both of which could have an impact on our profitability. 41 During 2007, there has been a decline in the housing and real estate markets and in the general economy, both nationally and locally with some reports indicating that the national economy is bordering on a recession. Housing market conditions in our market area have deteriorated during 2007 as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, a decrease in fee income from our relationship with a third party mortgage company, an increase in our non-performing loans, an increase in our provision for loan losses or an adverse impact on our loan losses. The second half of 2007 has been highlighted by significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital marketplaces. This turbulence has been attributable to a variety of factors, including the fallout associated with the sub-prime mortgage market. One aspect of this fallout has been significant deterioration in the activity of the secondary residential mortgage market. The disruptions have been exacerbated by the acceleration of the decline of the real estate and housing market. We cannot assure you that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in a decrease in our interest income, a decrease in fee income from our relationship with a third party mortgage company, or an adverse impact on our loan losses. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. We will 42 have employment agreements with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Chief Financial Officer, and change of control agreements with several other senior executive officers, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. Westfield Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, as its chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as the insurer of its deposits up to certain limits. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision regulates and oversees Westfield Financial and Westfield Mutual Holding Company. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regulation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution's allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators' supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, other state or federal regulators, or the United States Congress could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for deposits has come from savings and commercial banks. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms. We also face additional competition from internet-based institutions, brokerage firms and insurance companies. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 43 