ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are not material may also impair our future business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to our consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design, manufacture and market new products and upon continued market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or what new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we may introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition in this business primarily focuses on product price, product innovation, and quality. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, stronger brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the outdoor recreational products and powersports industries have limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products and competition for shelf space at retailers, both of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. Purchases of Company products are discretionary spending and general economic conditions significantly affect the Company’s results of operations. Our products are generally viewed as discretionary spending by consumers. In times of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to defer expenditures for discretionary items, which affects demand for our products. Our revenues are affected by economic conditions and consumer confidence worldwide, but especially in the United States and Europe. Moreover, our businesses are cyclical in nature, and their success is dependent upon favorable economic conditions, the overall level of consumer confidence and discretionary income and spending levels. Any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions that diminish consumer confidence or discretionary income or spending can reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial results. The impact of weak consumer credit markets, corporate restructurings, layoffs, declines in the value of investments and residential real estate, higher fuel prices and increases in federal and state taxation all can negatively affect our operating results. We are dependent upon certain key members of management. Our success will depend to a significant degree on the abilities and efforts of our senior management. Moreover, our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, marketing, technical and sales personnel. These people are in high demand and often have competing employment opportunities. The labor market for skilled employees is competitive and we may lose key employees or be forced to increase their compensation to retain these people. Employee turnover could significantly increase our training and other related employee costs. The loss of key personnel, or the failure to attract qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Sources of and fluctuations in market prices of raw materials can affect our operating results. The primary raw materials we use are metals, resins and packaging materials. These materials are generally available from a number of suppliers for each commodity or purchased component. We believe our sources of raw materials are reliable and adequate for our needs. However, the development of future sourcing issues related to the availability of these materials as well as significant fluctuations in the market prices of these materials may have an adverse affect on our financial results. We rely on our credit facility to provide us with sufficient working capital to operate our business. 6 Table of Contents Historically, we have relied upon our existing credit facilities to provide us with adequate working capital to operate our business. The availability of borrowing amounts under our credit facilities are dependent upon our compliance with the debt covenants set forth in the facilities. Violation of those covenants, whether as a result of incurring operating losses or otherwise, could result in our lenders restricting or terminating our borrowing ability under our credit facilities. The availability of borrowing amounts under our revolving credit facility is dependent upon the amount and quality of the accounts receivable and inventory collateralizing the revolving credit facility. The bankruptcy of a major customer could have a significant negative impact on the availability of borrowing amounts under our revolving credit facility. If our lenders reduce or terminate our access to amounts under our credit facilities, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our working capital needs and/or we may need to secure additional capital or financing to fund our working capital requirements or to repay outstanding debt under our credit facilities. We can make no assurance that we will be successful in ensuring our availability to amounts under our credit facilities or in connection with raising additional capital and that any amount, if raised, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements. If we are not able to maintain our borrowing availability under our credit facilities and/or raise additional capital when needed, we may be forced to sharply curtail our efforts to manufacture and promote the sale of our products or to curtail our operations. Ultimately, we may be forced to cease operations. Sales of our products are seasonal, which causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Sales of our products are seasonal. Historically, our net sales and profitability have peaked in the first and fourth fiscal quarters due to the buying patterns of our customers. Seasonal variations in operating results may cause our results to fluctuate significantly in the second and third quarters and may depress our stock price during the first and fourth quarters. Impairment charges could reduce our profitability. We test our intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. Various uncertainties, including changes in consumer preferences, deterioration in the political environment, continued adverse conditions in the capital markets or changes in general economic conditions could impact the expected cash flows to be generated by an intangible asset or group of intangible assets, and may result in an impairment of those assets. Although any such impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, any impairment of our intangible assets could materially increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. During the third quarter of 2009, the Company determined that indicators of potential impairment existed because the Company had experienced a decrease in the Company’s market capitalization for a sustained period of time and had sustained two quarters of continued net losses. In accordance with ASC 360, the Company evaluated its long-lived assets and other intangible assets, using an undiscounted cash flow analysis prior to evaluating goodwill. This analysis supported the carrying value of the long-lived assets and other intangible assets, but could not support the carrying value of goodwill. Therefore, management determined that no impairment was necessary of the long-lived assets and other intangible assets. In evaluating goodwill, the Company evaluated the market capitalization at June 30, 2009 and performed an evaluation based on multiples of earnings and discounted cash flow analysis as evidence of the fair value of the entity. It was determined that the fair value did not exceed the carrying amount of goodwill, and accordingly, the Company took an impairment charge of approximately $4,890,000. The Company’s analysis uses significant estimates in the evaluation of long-lived assets, other intangibles, and goodwill, such as estimated cash flows from continuing operations, estimated future revenues, cost of goods sold and gross margin. It is reasonably possible that our estimates and assumptions could change in the near future, which could lead to further impairment of long-lived assets and other intangibles. We could be delisted by the NYSE Amex Stock Exchange. The Company has received a Notice of delisting from NYSE Amex which is discussed in Item 7, Management Discussion & Analysis, as well as in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and that will enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. Risks associated with integrating strategic acquisitions include: 7 Table of Contents · the acquired business may experience losses which could adversely affect our profitability; · unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; · possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company; · possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; · difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses; · diversion of our management’s attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our other business operations; and · unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. We currently do not have significant foreign operations, but our growth plan depends somewhat on growth in foreign operations for which the functional currencies are often denominated in Euros, Swiss Francs, Japanese Yen, Chinese Yuan, Taiwan Dollars and Canadian Dollars. As the values of the currencies of the foreign countries in which we have operations increase or decrease relative to the U.S. dollar, the sales, expenses, profits, losses, assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, as reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements, increase or decrease, accordingly. None of our revenues for the year ended September 30, 2009 or 2008 were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Any litigation we undertake to collect amounts due to us could be unsuccessful and the costs could reduce our profitability. The Company is involved in the collection of funds in connection with the misappropriation of funds discussed more fully in Item 3. We may not be successful in our efforts. Even if we are successful in the litigation, we may not receive an award sufficient to remedy the damages, there may not be sufficient assets to collect any judgment awarded and some or all of the costs incurred in connection with any such litigation or collection efforts may not be fully recovered. It is not possible, at this time, to estimate what those costs may be. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. We could be either a plaintiff or defendant in trademark and patent infringement claims and claims of breach of license from time to time. The prosecution or defense of intellectual property litigation is both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management even if the claim or defense against us is without merit. We could also be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. We also rely on trade secret law to protect certain of our technologies and proprietary information that we cannot or have chosen not to patent. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. Although we attempt to maintain protection through confidentiality agreements with key personnel, contractors and consultants, we cannot guarantee that such contracts will not be breached. In the event of a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our trade secret protection. Litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management’s attention away from business and may not adequately compensate for the damages suffered.. We are subject to environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and other legal requirements related to the generation, storage, transport, treatment and disposal of materials as a result of our manufacturing and assembly operations. We believe that our existing environmental management system is adequate and we have no current plans for substantial capital expenditures in the environmental area. We do not currently anticipate any material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of compliance with federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws or other legal requirements. However, risk of environmental liability and changes associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business and there is no assurance that material liabilities or changes would not arise. 8 Table of Contents Our shares of common stock are thinly traded and our stock price may be more volatile. Because our common stock is thinly traded, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market in general or the stock prices of similar companies, which are exchanged, listed or quoted on the NYSE Amex. Thus, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our shares of common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On September 30, the Company received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) regarding the Form 10-KSB for the year ended September 30, 2008 and the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009. The Company responded on November 6, 2009 to all of the concerns addressed by the Commission’s comment letter. The Company addressed some of the concerns of the Commission by filing an amendment to its Form 10-KSB for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. In addition, the Company believes that the remaining concerns of the Commission are addressed in the filing of this Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2009. ITEM 