ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the information contained elsewhere in this prospectus, before you make a decision to invest in our company. Our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by many risk factors. Because of these risk factors, actual results might differ significantly from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, among others, the following: Risks Related to our Business and Industry Because we are a holding company with substantially all of our operations conducted through our subsidiaries, our performance will be affected by the performance of our subsidiaries. We have no operations independent of those of Genesis and its subsidiaries, and our principal assets are our investments in Genesis and its subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon the performance of Genesis and its subsidiaries and will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting Genesis as well as general economic and financial conditions. As substantially all of our operations are and will be conducted through our subsidiaries, we will be dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Because virtually all of our assets are and will be held by operating subsidiaries, the claims of our stockholders will be structurally subordinate to all existing and future liabilities and obligations, and trade payables of such subsidiaries. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and our subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. The Senior Convertible Notes are unsecured obligations of us, but are not obligations of our subsidiaries. In addition, our secured commercial debt is senior to the Senior Convertible Notes. With the automobile parts markets being highly competitive and many of our competitors having greater resources than we do, we may not be able to compete successfully. The automobile parts industry is a highly competitive business. Criteria for our customers include: · Quality; · Price/cost competitiveness; · System and product performance; · Reliability and timeliness of delivery; · New product and technology development capability; · Excellence and flexibility in operations; · Degree of global and local presence; · Effectiveness of customer service; and · Overall management capability. Our competitors include independent suppliers of parts, as well as suppliers formed by spin-offs from our customers, who are becoming more aggressive in selling parts to other vehicle manufacturers. Depending on the particular product, the number of our competitors varies significantly. Many of our competitors have substantially greater revenues and financial resources than we do, as well as stronger brand names, consumer recognition, business relationships with vehicle manufacturers, and geographic presence than we have. We may not be able to compete favorably and increased competition may substantially harm our business, business prospects and results of operations. Internationally, we face different market dynamics and competition. We may not be as successful as our competitors in generating revenues in international markets due to the lack of recognition of our products or other factors. Developing product recognition overseas is expensive and time-consuming and our international expansion efforts may be more costly and less profitable than we expect. If we are not successful in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any of which could materially harm our business, results of operations and profitability. 11 The cyclical nature of automotive production and sales could result in a reduction in automotive sales, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business relies on automotive vehicle production and sales by our customers, which are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences and the price and availability of gasoline. They also can be affected by labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, and other factors. In addition, in the last two years, the price of automobiles in China has generally declined. As a result, the volume of automotive production in China has fluctuated from year to year, which gives rise to fluctuations in the demand for our products. Any significant economic decline that results in a reduction in automotive production and sales by our customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Moreover, if the prices of automobiles do not remain low, then demand for automobile parts could fall and result in lower revenues and profitability. Increasing costs for manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our products, including castings, electronic components, finished sub-components, molded plastic parts, fabricated metal, aluminum and steel, and resins. Because it may be difficult to pass increased prices for these items on to our customers, a significant increase in the prices of our components and materials could materially increase our operating costs and adversely affect our profit margins and profitability. Pricing pressure by automobile manufacturers on their suppliers may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Recently, pricing pressure from automobile manufacturers has been prevalent in the automotive parts industry in China. Virtually all vehicle manufacturers seek price reductions each year, including requiring suppliers to pay a “3-R Guarantees” service charge for repair, replacement and refund in an amount equal to one percent of the total amount of parts supplied. Although we have tried to reduce costs and resist price reductions, these reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins. If we cannot offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, price reductions will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business, revenues and profitability would be materially and adversely affected if we lose any of our large customers. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 16.4% of our sales were to Chery Automobile Co., Ltd, approximately 13.7% were to Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Limited, approximately 11.5% were to Beiqi Foton Motor Co., Ltd, and approximately 10.6% were to Zhejiang Geely Holding Co., Ltd, our four largest customers. The loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of these major customers could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to product liability and warranty and recall claims, which may increase the costs of doing business and adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. We may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims if our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. We started to pay some of our customers’ increased after-sales service expenses due to consumer rights protection policies of “recall” issued by the Chinese Government in 2004, such as the recalling flawed vehicles policy. Beginning in 2004, automobile manufacturers unilaterally required their suppliers to pay a “3-R Guarantees” service charge for repair, replacement and refund in an amount equal to one percent of the total amount of parts supplied. Accordingly, we have experienced and will continue to experience higher after sales service expenses. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 12 We are subject to environmental and safety regulations, which may increase our compliance costs and may adversely affect our results of operation. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in China. We cannot provide assurance that we have been or will be at all times in full compliance with all of these requirements, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. Additionally, these regulations may change in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The capital requirements and other expenditures that may be necessary to comply with environmental requirements could increase and become a material expense of doing business. Non-performance by our suppliers may adversely affect our operations by delaying delivery or causing delivery failures, which may negatively affect demand, sales and profitability. We purchase various types of equipment, raw materials and manufactured component parts from our suppliers. We would be materially and adversely affected by the failure of our suppliers to perform as expected. We could experience delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products if our suppliers failed to perform, and we also face these risks in the event any of our suppliers becomes insolvent or bankrupt. Our business and growth may suffer if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies effectively depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. We depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled technical staff, particularly engineers and other employees with electronics expertise, and managerial, finance and marketing personnel. We does not maintain a key person life insurance policy on Mr. Hanlin Chen or Mr. Qizhou Wu. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could substantially harm our business. Our management controls approximately 80.17% of our outstanding common stock and may have conflicts of interest with our minority stockholders. Members of our management beneficially own approximately 80.17% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these majority stockholders have control over decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, which could result in the approval of transactions that might not maximize stockholders’ value. Additionally, these stockholders control the election of members of our board, have the ability to appoint new members to our management team and control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock. The interests of these majority stockholders may at times conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. The Henglong Transaction would be a transaction involving us and a counterparty controlled by Mr. Hanlin Chen, our Chairman and controlling stockholder. We regularly engage in transactions with entities controlled by one of more of our officers and directors. Covenants contained in the Securities Purchase Agreement and the Senior Convertible Notes restrict our operating flexibility. There is a limited public float of our common stock, which can result in our stock price being volatile and prevent the realization of a profit on resale of our common stock or derivative securities. There is a limited public float of our common stock. Of our outstanding common stock, approximately 19.83% is considered part of the public float. The term “public float” refers to shares freely and actively tradable on the NASDAQ Capital Market and not owned by officers, directors or affiliates, as such term is defined under the Securities Act. As a result of the limited public float and the limited trading volume on some days, the market price of our common stock can be volatile, and relatively small changes in the demand for or supply of our common stock can have a disproportionate effect on the market price for our common stock. This stock price volatility could prevent a securityholder seeking to sell our common stock or derivative securities from being able to sell them at or above the price at which the stock or derivative securities were bought, or at a price which a fully liquid market would report. 13 Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the General Corporation Law of Delaware may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the state in which we are organized, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions and possibly prevent transactions that would maximize stockholders’ value. We do not pay cash dividends on our common stock. We have never paid common stock cash dividends and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. In addition, the Securities Purchase Agreement prohibits us from paying cash dividends on common stock without the approval of the holders of the Senior Convertible Notes. Risks Related to Doing Business in China and Other Countries Besides the United States Because our operations are all located outside of the United States and are subject to Chinese laws, any change of Chinese laws may adversely affect our business. All of our operations are outside the United States and in China, which exposes us to risks, such as exchange controls and currency restrictions, currency fluctuations and devaluations, changes in local economic conditions, changes in Chinese laws and regulations, exposure to possible expropriation or other Chinese government actions, and unsettled political conditions. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international expansion plans subject us to risks inherent in doing business internationally. Our long-term business strategy relies on the expansion of our international sales outside China by targeting markets, such as the United States. Risks affecting our international expansion include challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, foreign laws, international import and export legislation, trading and investment policies, foreign currency fluctuations, the burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries, foreign tax consequences, higher costs associated with doing business internationally, restrictions on the export or import of technology, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, trade and tariff restrictions, and variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers. These risks could harm our international expansion efforts, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations; any adverse fluctuation may adversely affect our operating margins. Although we are incorporated in the United States (Delaware), the majority of our current revenues are in Chinese currency. Conducting business in currencies other than US dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency translation gains and losses. Historically, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities. Although we may implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies may not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise requirements, external costs to implement the strategy and potential accounting implications. 14 If relations between the United States and China worsen, our stock price may decrease and we may have difficulty accessing the U.S. capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to access US capital markets. The Chinese Government could change its policies toward private enterprises, which could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to political and economic uncertainties in China and may be adversely affected by China’s political, economic and social developments. Over the past several years, the Chinese Government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese Government may not continue to pursue these policies or may alter them to our detriment from time to time. Changes in policies, laws and regulations, or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to stockholders, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business. Nationalization or expropriation could result in the total loss of our investment in China. The economic, political and social conditions in China could affect our business. All of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange, and allocation of resources. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the Chinese Government has implemented measures recently emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese Government. In addition, the Chinese Government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Therefore, the Chinese Government’s involvement in the economy could adversely affect our business operations, results of operations and/or financial condition. The Chinese Government’s macroeconomic policies could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. The Chinese Government has implemented various measures from time to time to control the rate of economic growth. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a negative effect on us. Government control of currency conversion and future movements in exchange rates may adversely affect our operations and financial results. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, the currency of China. A portion of such revenues will be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations. Foreign exchange transactions under our capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange in China. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, or to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. 15 The Chinese Government controls its foreign currency reserves through restrictions on imports and conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency. Although the exchange rate of the Renminbi to the US dollar has been stable since January 1, 1994, and the Chinese Government has stated its intention to maintain the stability of the value of Renminbi, there can be no assurance that exchange rates will remain stable. The Renminbi could devalue against the US dollar. Our financial condition and results of operations may also be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than the Renminbi in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. In particular, a devaluation of the Renminbi is likely to increase the portion of our cash flow required to satisfy our foreign currency-denominated obligations. Because the Chinese legal system is not fully developed, our and securityholders’ legal protections may be limited. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes and their interpretation by the Supreme People’s Court. Although the Chinese government introduced new laws and regulations to modernize its business, securities and tax systems on January 1, 1994, China does not yet possess a comprehensive body of business law. Because Chinese laws and regulations are relatively new, interpretation, implementation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties and inconsistencies and it may be difficult to enforce contracts. In addition, as the Chinese legal system develops, changes in such laws and regulations, their interpretation or their enforcement may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Moreover, interpretative case law does not have the same precedential value in China as in the United States, so legal compliance in China may be more difficult or expensive. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against our management or us. All of our assets are located in China and [three] of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or substantial portions of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons to originate an action in the United States. Moreover, there is uncertainty that the courts of China would enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us, our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, or an original action brought in China based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 16 ITEM 