ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are not material may also impair our future business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our net sales and profitability depend on our ability to continue to conceive, design and market products that appeal to our consumers. The introduction of new products is critical in our industry and to our growth strategy. Our business depends on our ability to continue to conceive, design, manufacture and market new products and upon continued market acceptance of our product offerings. Rapidly changing consumer preferences and trends make it difficult to predict how long consumer demand for our existing products will continue or what new products will be successful. Our current products may not continue to be popular or new products that we may introduce may not achieve adequate consumer acceptance for us to recover development, manufacturing, marketing and other costs. A decline in consumer demand for our products, our failure to develop new products on a timely basis in anticipation of changing consumer preferences or the failure of our new products to achieve and sustain consumer acceptance could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. Competition in this business primarily focuses on product price, product innovation, and quality. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, stronger brand recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the outdoor recreational products and powersports industries have limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products and competition for shelf space at retailers, both of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. Purchases of Company products are discretionary spending and general economic conditions significantly affect the Company's results of operations. Purchases of our products are generally viewed as discretionary spending by consumers. In times of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to defer expenditures for discretionary items, which affects demand for our products. Our revenues are affected by economic conditions and consumer confidence worldwide, but especially in the United States and Europe. Moreover, our business is cyclical in nature, and its success is dependent upon favorable economic conditions, the overall level of consumer confidence and discretionary income and spending levels. Any deterioration in general economic conditions that diminish consumer confidence or discretionary income or spending can reduce our sales and adversely affect our financial results. The impact of weak consumer credit markets, corporate restructurings, layoffs, declines in the value of investments and residential real estate, higher fuel prices and increases in federal and state taxation all can negatively affect our operating results. 6 We are dependent upon certain key members of management. Our success will depend to a significant degree on the abilities and efforts of our senior management. Moreover, our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, marketing, technical and sales personnel. These people are in high demand and often have competing employment opportunities. The labor market for skilled employees is competitive and we may lose key employees or be forced to increase compensation to retain these people. Employee turnover could significantly increase our training and other related employee costs. The loss of key personnel, or the failure to attract qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Sources of and fluctuations in market prices of raw materials can affect our operating results. The primary raw materials we use are metals, resins and packaging materials. These materials are generally available from a number of suppliers for each commodity or purchased component. We believe our sources of raw materials are reliable and adequate for our needs. However, the development of future sourcing issues related to the availability of these materials as well as significant fluctuations in the market prices of these materials may have an adverse effect on our financial results. We rely on our credit facility to provide us with sufficient working capital to operate our business. Historically, we have relied upon our existing credit facilities to provide us with adequate working capital to operate our business. The availability of borrowing amounts under our revolving credit facility is dependent upon the amount and quality of the accounts receivable and inventory collateralizing the revolving credit facility. The bankruptcy of a major customer could have a significant negative impact on the availability of borrowing amounts under our revolving credit facility. The availability of borrowing amounts under our credit facilities are dependent upon compliance with the debt covenants set forth in the facilities. Violation of those covenants, whether as a result of operating losses or otherwise, could result in our lenders restricting or terminating our borrowing ability under our credit facilities. As discussed in Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements, as of September 30, 2011, the Company was not in compliance with the term debt coverage requirement or the working capital requirement of its secured credit agreements. On January 17, 2011, the Company and the Lender entered into Amendment 7. Under the terms of Amendment 7, the Lender agreed to waive the noncompliance by the Company with the required ratio of current assets to current liabilities as of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010 and the Company's anticipated noncompliance with the required ratio of current assets to current liabilities through October 1, 2011 and further, waive the Company's noncompliance with the Term Debt Coverage Ratio (as defined in Amendment 7) as of September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010, and the Company's anticipated noncompliance with the Term Debt Coverage Ratio through October 1, 2011. If our lenders reduce or terminate our access to amounts under our credit facilities, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our working capital needs and/or we may need to secure additional capital or financing to fund our working capital requirements or to repay outstanding debt under our credit facilities. We can make no assurance that we will be successful in ensuring our availability to amounts under our credit facilities or in connection with raising additional capital and that any amount, if raised, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements. If we are not able to maintain our borrowing availability under our credit facilities and/or raise additional capital when needed, we may be forced to sharply curtail our efforts to manufacture and promote the sale of our products or to curtail our operations. Ultimately, we may be forced to cease operations. Sales of our products are seasonal, which causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Sales of our products are seasonal. Historically, our net sales and profitability have peaked in the first and fourth fiscal quarters due to the buying patterns of our customers. Seasonal variations in operating results may cause our results to fluctuate significantly in the second and third quarters and may depress our stock price during the first and fourth quarters. Impairment charges could reduce our profitability. We test our intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis, or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. Various uncertainties, including changes in consumer preferences, deterioration in the political environment, continued adverse conditions in the capital markets or changes in general economic conditions could impact the expected cash flows to be generated by an intangible asset or group of intangible assets, and may result in an impairment of those assets. Although any such impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, any impairment of our intangible assets could materially increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. Long-lived assets, such as property, plant, and equipment, are reviewed for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The Company determined that indicators of potential impairment existed because the Company had experienced a decrease in the Company's market capitalization for a sustained period of time and had sustained three quarters of continued net losses for the three quarters ended September 30, 2011. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) expected to be generated by the asset. If these projected cash flows are less than the carrying amount, impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models, quoted market values and third party appraisals, as considered necessary. In accordance with ASC 360, the Company evaluated its long-lived assets using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. Impairment is evaluated at the lowest level of reporting which is at the segment level. This analysis supported the carrying value of the long-lived assets and, therefore, no impairment was recorded. 7 As discussed more fully in Note 16, of the Company's financial statements, the Company concluded that the Perf-Form and Plazco segments may not fit within the long-term strategic plans for the Company. As such, the Company determined that indicators of potential impairment existed in the value of trademarks and patents for its Perf-Form segment. Plazco's intangible assets had been previously fully amortized. Recoverability of intangible assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) expected to be generated by the asset. If these projected cash flows are less than the carrying amount, impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models, quoted or estimated market values and third party appraisals, as considered necessary. This analysis did not support the carrying value of the intangible assets for the Perf-Form segment and, therefore, an impairment charge in the amount of $100,000 for trademarks and $10,186 for unamortized patents was recognized on March 31, 2011. These charges are included in discontinued operations. In accordance with ASC 360, the Company evaluated its long-lived assets and other intangible assets, using an undiscounted cash flow analysis. This analysis supported the carrying value of the long-lived assets and other intangible assets. Therefore, management determined that no impairment was necessary of the long-lived assets and other intangible assets. Given the significant assumptions required and the possibility that actual conditions will differ, we consider the assessment of impairment of our long-lived assets to be a critical accounting estimate. The Company's analysis uses significant estimates in the evaluation of long-lived assets and other intangibles, such as estimated cash flows from continuing operations, estimated future revenues, cost of goods sold and gross margin. It is reasonably possible that our estimates and assumptions could change in the near future, which could lead to further impairment of long-lived assets and other intangibles. We could be delisted by the NYSE Amex Stock Exchange . On September 15, 2011, the Company received, as expected, a letter from NYSE Amex LLC notifying the Company that the Chairman of the Company's audit committee, Paul DeShaw, no longer satisfied the independence standards of Rule 10A-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 due to his recent purchase of a large block of the Company's common stock. Mr. DeShaw has resigned from the audit committee, but continues to serve as a director and is independent for all other purposes. By letter dated September 20, 2011, NYSE Amex LLC confirmed that the Company had resolved its Rule 10A-3 compliance issue. Our financial results and condition place us near the minimum requirements set by NYSE Amex LLC for continued listing on that exchange. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our exchange listing. If we are delisted, our stock price and liquidity may decline, which could harm your investment and your ability to sell your shares. Subsequent to September 30, 2011, the Company was notified of noncompliance of the exchange's listing standards due to total stockholders' equity balance of less than $4,000,000 noted on preliminary December 31, 2011 financial statement. Since this time, the stockholders' equity rose above the $4,000,000 threshold and has maintained a level in excess of the threshold. We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and that will enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. Risks associated with integrating strategic acquisitions include: ● the acquired business may experience losses which could adversely affect our profitability; ● unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; ● possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company; ● possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; ● difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses; ● diversion of our management's attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our other business operations; and ● unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase our expenses. We currently do not have significant foreign operations, but our growth plan depends somewhat on growth in foreign operations for which the functional currencies are often denominated in Euros, Swiss Francs, Japanese Yen, Chinese Yuan, Taiwan Dollars and Canadian Dollars. As the values of the currencies of the foreign countries in which we have operations increase or decrease relative to the U.S. dollar, the sales, expenses, profits, losses, assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, as reported in our consolidated financial statements, increase or decrease, accordingly. None of our revenues for the year ended September 30, 2011 or 2010 were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Any litigation we undertake to collect amounts due to us could be unsuccessful and the costs could reduce our profitability. The Company is involved in the collection of funds in connection with the misappropriation of funds discussed more fully in Item 3. We may not be successful in our efforts. Even if we are successful in the litigation, we may not receive an award sufficient to remedy the damages, there may not be sufficient assets to collect any judgment awarded and some or all of the costs incurred in connection with any such litigation or collection efforts may not be fully recovered. It is not possible, at this time, to estimate what those costs may be. 8 Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. We could be either a plaintiff or defendant in trademark and patent infringement claims and claims of breach of license from time to time. The prosecution or defense of intellectual property litigation is both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management even if the claim or defense against us is without merit. We could also be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation. We also rely on trade secret law to protect certain technologies and proprietary information that we cannot or have chosen not to patent. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. Although we attempt to maintain protection through confidentiality agreements with key personnel, contractors and consultants, we cannot guarantee that such contracts will not be breached. In the event of a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our trade secret protection. Litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from business and may not adequately compensate for the damages suffered. We are subject to environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and other legal requirements related to the generation, storage, transport, treatment and disposal of materials as a result of our manufacturing and assembly operations. We believe that our existing environmental management system is adequate and we have no current plans for substantial capital expenditures in the environmental area. We do not currently anticipate any material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or competitive position as a result of compliance with current federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws or other legal requirements. However, risk of environmental liability and changes associated with maintaining compliance with environmental laws is inherent in the nature of our business and there is no assurance that material liabilities or changes would not arise in the future. Our shares of common stock are thinly traded and our stock price may be more volatile. Because our common stock is thinly traded, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market in general or the stock prices of similar companies, which are exchanged, listed or quoted on the NYSE Amex. Thus, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our shares of common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. 