Item 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks occurs, our business, business prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially harmed. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital We have incurred significant losses since our inception, and we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may never reach profitability. Since inception we have incurred significant operating losses and, as of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $351.1 million. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses and losses may increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: •complete the ongoing and contemplated clinical trials of ganetespib in solid tumors and hematologic cancers and initiate additional clinical trials of ganetespib, including the planned initiation of a Phase 2b/3 clinical trial of ganetespib in combination with docetaxel in NSCLC, if supported by trial results; •complete preclinical development of an additional Hsp90 inhibitor and initiate clinical trials of this compound, if supported by the preclinical data; •complete the ongoing clinical trials of elesclomol in AML and ovarian cancers, and initiate additional clinical trials of elesclomol, including the planned initiation of a Phase 2b clinical trial of elesclomol in NSCLC, if supported by trial results; •complete preclinical development of STA-9584 and initiate clinical trials, if supported by preclinical data; •advance our CRACM inhibitor compounds not licensed to Roche under the Roche Agreement into preclinical development and initiate clinical trials, if supported by preclinical data; •discover, develop, and seek regulatory approval for backups of our current drug candidates and other new drug candidates; •identify additional compounds or drug candidates and acquire rights from third parties to those compounds or drug candidates through licenses, acquisitions or other means; and 26 •commercialize any approved drug candidates. We must generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drug candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Our operating history may make it difficult to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability. We commenced operations in July 2001. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring, developing, and securing our technology, and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials of our drug candidates. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval, formulate and manufacture a commercial-scale product, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history or had previously discovered, developed, and/or commercialized an approved product. If we fail to obtain the funding necessary to support our operations, we will be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our lead drug candidates. Although we have raised substantial funding to date, we will require additional funding in order to complete clinical development and commercialize our current drug candidates and to conduct the research and development and clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring any future drug candidates to market. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors that are currently unknown to us, including: •the progress and results of our ongoing clinical trials of ganetespib and any additional clinical trials of ganetespib we may initiate in the future, including the planned initiation of a Phase 2b/3 clinical trial of ganetespib in combination with docetaxel in NSCLC, based on the results of these clinical trials; •the results of preclinical studies of any additional Hsp90 inhibitors we may develop, and our decision to initiate clinical trials, if supported by preclinical data; •the progress and results of our ongoing clinical trials of elesclomol and any additional clinical trials of elesclomol we may initiate in the future, including the planned initiation of a Phase 2b clinical trial of elesclomol in NSCLC, based on the results of these clinical trials; •the results of our preclinical studies of STA-9584, and our decision to initiate clinical trials, if supported by the preclinical and other test results; •the results of our preclinical studies of our CRACM inhibitor compounds not licensed to Roche under the Roche Agreement, and our decision to initiate clinical trials, if supported by the preclinical and other test results; •Roche's ability to satisfy its obligations under the Roche Agreement, including payment of milestone and royalty payments; •uncertainty associated with costs, timing, and outcome of regulatory review of our drug candidates; •the scope, progress, results, and cost of preclinical development, clinical trials, and regulatory review of any new drug candidates we may discover or acquire; •the costs of preparing, filing, and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing, and defending intellectual property-related claims; 27 •our ability to establish additional strategic collaborations and licensing or other arrangements on terms favorable to us; •the costs to satisfy our obligations under potential future collaborations; and •the timing, receipt, and amount of sales or royalties, if any, from ganetespib, elesclomol, STA-9584, our CRACM inhibitors, our IL-12/23 inhibitors and our other potential products. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may be required to: •terminate, significantly modify or delay our research and development programs; •reduce our planned commercialization efforts; or •obtain funds through collaborators that may require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates that we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize independently. We do not anticipate that we will generate product revenue in the foreseeable future, if at all. We expect our continuing operations to use cash over the next several years and such cash use may increase significantly from year to year. While we are engaged in multiple preliminary partnership discussions for each of our currently unpartnered programs—ganetespib, elesclomol, STA-9584, CRACM compounds not licensed by Roche under the Roche Agreement, and our IL-12/23 inhibitors—which could result in one or more new partnership agreements, that may include upfront payments and cost-sharing provisions, there is no guarantee we will be successful in entering into any such partnership agreements on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we will receive any other revenue through these partnership efforts in the future. Based on our current operating levels, we expect our cash resources will be sufficient to fund operations into 2012. This estimate assumes that certain activities contemplated for 2011 will be conducted subject to the availability of sufficient financial resources. We are evaluating additional potential sources of funding, including partnership agreements, cost or risk-sharing arrangements, equity financings, use of our $35 million equity line of credit facility or other sources. However, our operating plans may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us, and we may need additional funds sooner than planned. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. We may seek the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, collaboration agreements, debt financings, or licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, existing stockholders' ownership interests will be diluted and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect their rights as a stockholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. For example, the terms of our Loan and Security Agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation subject us to certain negative covenants including a prohibition on declaring or paying dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. 28 Our existing loan and security agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities. If we fail to comply with covenants in our loan and security agreement, we may be required to repay our indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. On September 30, 2010, we entered into a $15 million loan and security agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation, or GECC, and one other lender, which we refer to herein as the GECC Term Loan. The GECC Term Loan is secured by substantially all of our assets, except our intellectual property. We have, however, granted GECC a springing security interest in our intellectual property in the event that we are not in compliance with certain cash burn covenants set forth in the agreement. In addition, the GECC Term Loan contains restrictive covenants, including the requirement for us to receive prior written consent of GECC to enter into loans, other than up to $4.0 million of equipment financing, restrictions on the declaration or payment of dividends, restrictions on acquisitions, and customary default provisions that include material adverse events, as defined therein. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default that, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the GECC Term Loan, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all. Risks Related to the Development and Regulatory Approval of Our Drug Candidates Our success is largely dependent on the success of ganetespib, elesclomol and our other drug candidates, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize any of these drug candidates. We anticipate that our success will depend largely on the receipt of regulatory approval and successful commercialization of our drug candidates: ganetespib, elesclomol, STA-9584 and our preclinical-stage CRACM inhibitor. The future success of our drug candidates will depend on several factors, including the following: •our ability to recruit appropriate patients into our clinical trials and to complete the necessary preclinical studies and clinical trials to support regulatory approval; •our ability to provide acceptable evidence of their safety and efficacy; •receipt of marketing approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and any similar foreign regulatory authorities; •obtaining and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers or establishing commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities; •in the case of elesclomol, a further understanding of the role of LDH levels and other potential markers of treatment outcome, and the outcome of our ongoing and contemplated clinical trials of elesclomol that we may initiate; •establishing an internal sales force or collaborating with pharmaceutical companies or contract sales organizations to market and sell any approved drug; •approval or use of competitive products in the indications for which we will market our drug candidates; •validation of the molecular targets or mechanisms of action of our drug candidates by us or by third parties; •approval of reimbursement in foreign countries with centralized health care; and •acceptance of any approved drug in the medical community and by patients and third-party payors. 29 Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will ever be able to generate revenues through the sale of an approved product or through strategic collaborations based on our products. If we do not obtain the required regulatory approvals, we will be unable to market and sell our drug candidates. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing, and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review and approval process are required to be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new drug can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain, and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA is unpredictable but typically exceeds five years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the complexity of the drug candidate. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. In connection with the clinical trials of our drug candidates, we face risks that: •the drug candidate may not prove to be safe and effective; •the dosing of the drug candidate in a particular clinical trial may not be optimal; •patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the drug candidate being tested; •the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier clinical trials; and •the results may not meet the level of statistical significance or clinical benefit-to-risk ratio required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for marketing approval. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of a new drug application, or NDA, to the FDA and even fewer are approved for commercialization. Furthermore, even if we do receive regulatory approval to market a commercial product, any such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. In clinical studies with elesclomol, we have begun to use a new formulation. However, we have limited prior clinical experience with this formulation and cannot ensure that no new toxicities will be observed in current or future clinical trials with elesclomol. Although the FDA has given us permission to resume clinical development of elesclomol following specific protocols that exclude patients with elevated LDH levels, we are using a different formulation of elesclomol than we used in our prior completed elesclomol clinical trials. The prior formulation utilized the free acid form of elesclomol, which needed to be dissolved in an organic solvent prior to administration. The types of combination therapies that were possible with the free acid formulation of elesclomol, and the amount of elesclomol that could be delivered safely in this formulation, were limited because of the additional toxicities caused by presence of the organic solvent. Accordingly, we have developed a water-soluble, lyophilized sodium salt form of elesclomol, or elesclomol sodium, that does not need to be dissolved in an organic solvent and therefore has the potential to be used more easily with other oncology products or as a stand alone agent without need for an organic solvent. We are using this formulation in current clinical trials of elesclomol and intend to continue using this formulation for future studies and for commercialization, if elesclomol is approved. Although we have shown comparable pharmacokinetics of the new formulation of lyophilized elesclomol sodium in animals, we can provide no guarantees that the sodium salt formulation will be commercially suitable, that efficacy will be established or that new toxicities or other adverse effects will not be identified in the clinical trials that we conduct with this formulation. 30 If we are unable to successfully reformulate and scale up ganetespib, it may limit the commercial potential of this drug candidate, even if approved. The current formulation and administration procedures for ganetespib may be inconvenient or unacceptable to certain patients due to the method of administration and frequency of dosing. These factors may lead to slower enrollment rates in our clinical trials and, if approved, may limit the commercial potential of ganetespib. In addition, to date, we have only produced ganetespib active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and drug product, or DP, on a relatively small scale. Although we believe that the current processes for producing ganetespib API and DP formulation are fully scalable, these products may prove to be unexpectedly challenging to manufacture on a larger, commercial scale, which may add to the cost of manufacture or delay the approval of ganetespib. While we have identified a possible improved formulation of ganetespib that we believe may broaden its commercial potential and decrease manufacturing risk, this new formulation has not yet been used in our clinical trials. If this formulation does not perform similarly compared with our current formulation of ganetespib, additional clinical trials may be required. Further, if this next generation formulation is not commercially acceptable and we are unable to develop a commercially acceptable formulation using our own know-how or technology, we may need to rely on third party proprietary formulation technology. Such third party formulation development may require significant time and expense. We cannot assure you that our efforts to reformulate ganetespib will be successful. If we are unable to reformulate ganetespib, ganetespib may have more limited potential target indications and market size if it is approved. While we believe that elesclomol's mechanism of action may have applicability to a broad range of solid tumor cancers, most of our clinical trials of elesclomol to date have shown negative or inconclusive results and there can be no assurances that future clinical trials of elesclomol will yield positive results. Based on our understanding of the mechanism of action and the preclinical activity we have seen with elesclomol, we believe that elesclomol may have applicability to a broad range of cancers. However, other than our Phase 2b clinical trial in metastatic melanoma, the results of our clinical trials of elesclomol have been negative or inconclusive. We have completed Phase 2 clinical trials of elesclomol in sarcoma and non-small cell lung cancer. The results of the soft tissue sarcoma clinical trial did not definitively establish evidence of clinical activity. In the non-small cell lung cancer clinical trial, no improvement was observed in time-to-progression between combination treatment with elesclomol and a standard first-line combination therapy. In February 2009, we announced that we were suspending the SYMMETRY trial, our global, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. In subsequent analyses, although we identified a population of patients (those who did not have elevated levels of LDH) for which the primary endpoint of progression-free survival, or PFS, was achieved and the safety profile was acceptable, the SYMMETRY trial did not achieve the primary endpoint of the study and therefore will not support approval of elesclomol in metastatic melanoma. Although we have been analyzing data from these trials to assess the future development of elesclomol in melanoma and other cancer types and the FDA has given us approval to resume clinical development of elesclomol following specific protocols that exclude patients with elevated LDH levels, there can be no assurances that we will continue the development of elesclomol in these indications, or that elesclomol will prove effective in and be approved for treating these or other forms of cancer. Because our drug candidates are in an early stage of development, there is a high risk of failure, and we may never succeed in developing marketable products or generating product revenue. We have no drug candidates that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. We do not expect to have any commercial products on the market in the foreseeable future, if at all. We are exploring human diseases at the cellular level and attempting to develop drug candidates that intervene 31 with cellular processes. Drug development is an uncertain process that involves trial and error, and we may fail at numerous stages along the way. Success in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and successful results from early or small clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later and larger clinical trials. For example, although our Phase 2b clinical trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma achieved the primary endpoint of increasing PFS, the SYMMETRY trial did not achieve the primary endpoint of PFS and therefore will not support approval of elesclomol in metastatic melanoma. Accordingly, the results from preclinical studies and the completed and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage clinical trials. If clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged, delayed or suspended, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and delay our receipt of any revenue from potential product sales. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or any regulatory authority to delay or suspend those clinical trials or delay the analysis of data derived from them. For example, in February 2009, we announced that we were suspending our Phase 3 SYMMETRY trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma as well as all other ongoing studies of elesclomol. This decision to suspend the clinical development of elesclomol was based on the results of an interim analysis by the independent data monitoring committee, or DMC, of the SYMMETRY trial data. The DMC noted that while the primary endpoint of PFS showed a trend that favored the elesclomol plus paclitaxel, or ELPAC, arm of the study, early analysis of the secondary endpoint of overall survival, or OS, favored the control arm. Subsequently, elesclomol was put on clinical hold by the FDA at our request. A number of events, including any of the following, could delay the completion of our other ongoing and planned clinical trials and negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a particular drug candidate, including our other clinical drug candidate, ganetespib, and our drug candidates that are still in preclinical studies, including STA-9584, our CRACM inhibitor candidate and our IL-12/23 inhibitor candidate: •conditions imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; •delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, required approvals from institutional review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; •insufficient supply or deficient quality of our drug candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; •delays in obtaining regulatory agreement for the conduct of our clinical trials; •lower or slower than anticipated enrollment and retention rate of subjects in clinical trials; •negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results, that necessitate additional clinical trials (for example, due to patient-to-patient pharmacokinetic variability); •serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in clinical trials; or •failure of our third-party contractors to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations to us. Commercialization of our drug candidates may be delayed by the imposition of additional conditions on our clinical trials by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority or the requirement of additional supportive studies by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. In addition, clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the 32 target patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the conduct of other clinical trials that compete for the same patients as our clinical trials, and the eligibility criteria for our clinical trials. Our failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trial beyond our expectations. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of subjects than we have projected for any of our drug candidates. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, enrolled patients may drop out of our clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. We do not know whether our clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured, or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Delays in our clinical trials will result in increased development costs for our drug candidates. In addition, if our clinical trials are delayed, our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do and the commercial viability of our drug candidates could be limited. If approved, we may not receive a package insert for any of our products that are competitive and differentiated, which may change our strategies with respect to how and when we commercialize any of our products. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs could prevent us from selling our drug candidates in foreign markets, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing, and reimbursement for marketing our drug candidates outside the United States vary greatly from country to country and may require additional testing. We expect that our future clinical development of our drug candidates will involve a number of clinical trials in foreign jurisdictions, particularly in Europe. We have no experience in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals. The time required to obtain approvals outside the United States may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not guarantee approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain required approvals could impair our ability to develop foreign markets for our drug candidates and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our drug candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if they receive marketing approval, and if we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals and the sale of any approved commercial products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular drug candidate, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, and record keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable domestic and foreign regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with any approved commercial products, manufacturers, or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: •restrictions on the products, manufacturers, or manufacturing processes; •warning letters; •civil or criminal penalties; •fines; 33 •injunctions; •product seizures or detentions; •import bans; •suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; •total or partial suspension of production; and •refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drug candidates or supplements to approved applications. If side effects or toxicities increase or are identified during the time our drug candidates are in development or after they are approved and on the market, we may be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, change the labeling of any such products, or withdraw any such products from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. We have observed significant toxicities in preclinical animal studies of our clinical drug candidate, ganetespib. Although in clinical trials to date, we have not observed the serious liver and common occular toxicities observed with first generation Hsp90 inhibitors, if these or other serious toxicities occur at or below a clinical dose of ganetespib required to show efficacy, we may not be able to demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective. In our completed Phase 2b clinical trial of elesclomol for metastatic melanoma, there were four patients with possible or probable drug-related serious adverse events related to treatment with elesclomol. In addition, in February 2009, we announced that we were suspending our Phase 3 SYMMETRY trial of elesclomol for the treatment of metastatic melanoma as well as all other ongoing studies of elesclomol. This decision to suspend the clinical development of elesclomol was based on the results of an analysis by the DMC of the SYMMETRY trial data. The DMC noted that while the primary endpoint of PFS showed a trend that favored the ELPAC arm of the study; early analysis of the secondary endpoint of OS favored the control arm. In an updated analysis presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology in June 2010, we showed that baseline LDH levels were a predictive marker of treatment outcome in melanoma patients treated in the SYMMETRY trial. In patients with normal LDH levels, treatment with ELPAC showed improved PFS and neutral effect on OS, while in patients with elevated LDH levels, treatment with ELPAC showed no effect on PFS and a negative impact on OS. Even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval for one or more of our drug candidates, as the drug is used in a larger patient population, if the incidence of side effects or toxicities increases or if other unacceptable effects are identified: •regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals; •we may be required to reformulate any such products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of any such products, or implement changes to or obtain new approvals of our or our contractors' manufacturing facilities; •we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products; •our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and •we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing any such products. 34 While we choose to test our drug candidates in specific clinical indications based in part on our understanding of their mechanisms of action, our understanding may be incorrect or incomplete and, therefore, our drugs may not be effective against the diseases tested in our clinical trials. Our rationale for selecting the particular therapeutic indications for each of our drug candidates is based in part on our understanding of the mechanism of action of these drug candidates. However, our understanding of the drug candidate's mechanism of action may be incomplete or incorrect, or the mechanism may not be clinically relevant to the diseases treated. In such cases, our drug candidates may prove to be ineffective in the clinical trials for treating those diseases. We deal with hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our activities involve the controlled storage, use, and disposal of hazardous materials, including cytotoxic agents, genotoxic agents, infectious agents, corrosive, explosive and flammable chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for the handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials, and we could be liable for any civil damages that result, which may exceed our financial resources and may seriously harm our business. We currently maintain insurance covering hazardous waste clean up costs in an amount of up to $250,000 per site. Because we believe that our laboratory and materials handling policies and practices sufficiently mitigate the likelihood of materials liability or third-party claims, we currently carry no insurance covering such claims. While we believe that the amount of insurance we carry is sufficient for typical risks regarding our handling of these materials, it may not be sufficient to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events. Additionally, an accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our operations. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and nonclinical safety assessment studies, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established timelines for the completion of such clinical trials and studies. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials and certain nonclinical safety assessment studies, particularly those studies conducted under Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, and clinical investigators in the case of clinical trials, and contract research organizations in the case of nonclinical safety assessment studies, to perform these functions. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. To date, our contract research organizations and other similar entities with which we are working have performed well; however, if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected timelines, or comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be delayed in obtaining regulatory approvals for our drug candidates and may be delayed in our efforts to successfully commercialize our drug candidates for targeted diseases. 35 We have no manufacturing capacity and depend on third-party manufacturers to produce our clinical trial drug supplies. We do not currently operate manufacturing facilities or testing facilities for clinical or commercial production of ganetespib or elesclomol, or any of our preclinical drug candidates. We have limited experience in drug manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our drug candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we currently rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture, test, release, supply, store, and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates or commercialization of any approved products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue. Our drug candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Failure by our contract manufacturers to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns, or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control, and quality assurance. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, or cGMPs, and other applicable U.S. and foreign government regulations and standards. We periodically audit our contract manufacturers responsible for supplying our clinical drug materials and have put quality agreements in place that we believe are appropriate for our materials. However, we do not have direct control over third party manufacturers' compliance with cGMPs and other standards and therefore, cannot provide assurance regarding such compliance. If for some reason our contract manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be unable to replace such third-party manufacturers in a timely manner and the production of our drug candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays in clinical trials and additional costs. Switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer after our drug candidates are approved. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our drug candidates after receipt of FDA approval. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. We contract with single manufacturers for the production of elesclomol and ganetespib API and DP for clinical trials and the failure of these manufacturers to supply sufficient quantities of material on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use single manufacturers for the supply of elesclomol and ganetespib: in each case, one for the synthesis of API and another for production of DP. The manufacturing processes for ganetespib API and DP are conventional and fully-scalable. We believe that the various steps of these processes can be accomplished by many possible third-party contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs. We currently use a single CMO in the preparation of the ganetespib API but we have a backup CMO that has previously manufactured ganetespib API on our behalf. We currently use a single CMO for manufacturing ganetespib DP that has specific experience in manufacturing oncology products and that has flexible scale manufacturing capabilities. We believe that the agreements we have entered into to date with these CMOs are sufficient for our current requirements. The manufacturing process for elesclomol API is conventional and fully-scalable. We believe that the various steps of this process can be accomplished by many possible third-party CMOs. We currently use a single CMO in the preparation of the elesclomol API but we have a backup CMO that has previously manufactured elesclomol API on our behalf. The elesclomol sodium DP is lyophilized and 36 manufactured under aseptic conditions. We believe that the process for manufacturing the elesclomol sodium DP is routine and can be performed by various different CMOs. We have entered into a contract with a CMO with specific experience in manufacturing oncology products and that has flexible scale manufacturing capabilities. We believe that the agreements to produce the elesclomol sodium DP that we have entered into to date would be sufficient for our anticipated requirements. If any of these CMOs failed to perform under their contracts, we believe that we could readily transfer the manufacturing methods to other CMOs. However, there may be a significant time delay before we could secure the necessary materials and such a delay could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our clinical trials. In addition, we have not entered into any agreement with our CMOs for the supply of ganetespib or elesclomol on a commercial scale. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into such an agreement on favorable terms, if at all. We anticipate continued reliance on third-party manufacturers if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies for any of our drug candidates. To date, our drug candidates have been manufactured in relatively small quantities for preclinical testing and clinical trials by third-party manufacturers. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our drug candidates for commercial sale, we expect that we would continue to rely, at least initially, on third-party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of our approved drug candidates. These manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our approved drug candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA or other regulatory authorities must review and approve. If they are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, particularly elesclomol, or we are unable to establish our own manufacturing capabilities, the commercial launch of any approved products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. If Roche does not develop and commercialize a licensed CRACM inhibitor compound on a timely basis, or at all, or if we are unable to partner our other CRACM inhibitors with another company on reasonable terms, or at all, we may be unable to develop and/or commercialize a CRACM inhibitor without additional capital. In December 2008, we formed a strategic alliance with Roche to discover, develop, and commercialize small-molecule drugs targeting CRACM channels. We refer herein to the agreement, as amended in February 2010 and February 2011, as the Roche Agreement. Although the research collaboration phase of the Roche Agreement ended in December 2010, Roche remains responsible for development and commercialization of certain CRACM inhibitor compounds that were exclusively licensed to Roche under the Roche Agreement, or Licensed Compounds, while we retain certain co-development and co-promotion rights to the Licensed Compounds. We remain eligible to receive additional payments, for each of three Licensed Compounds, should specified development and commercialization milestones be successfully achieved by Roche. We will also receive tiered royalties on sales of all approved, marketed products containing Licensed Compounds. Other than the Licensed Compounds, we retain all worldwide rights to our CRACM inhibitor compounds and are free to develop such compounds alone or with another partner. The Roche Agreement provides for certain termination provisions. Roche may terminate the agreement on a Licensed Compound-by-Licensed Compound basis upon providing advance written notice. Loss of Roche as a partner in the development or commercialization of the Licensed Compounds, any dispute over the terms of, or decisions regarding the agreement, or any other adverse developments in our relationship with Roche could result in an inability to develop and/or commercialize the Licensed Compounds. 37 We may not be successful in partnering our other CRACM inhibitors with another company on reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of Roche as a partner for the Licensed Compounds or our inability to successfully partner our other CRACM inhibitors with another company could accelerate our need for additional capital. If we do not establish additional collaborations, we may have to alter our development plans. Our drug development programs and potential commercialization of our drug candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. We own all rights to our two lead drug candidates, elesclomol and ganetespib, and are fully responsible for the associated development costs. In addition, because the research term under the Roche Agreement ended in December 2010, we are also solely responsible for future expenses related to the CRACM inhibitor compounds which are not covered under the development and commercialization license to Roche under the Roche Agreement. Our strategy also continues to include the potential of selectively collaborating with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering development and potential commercialization of some of our drug candidates and research programs. We may enter into one or more of such collaborations in the future, especially for target indications in which the potential collaborator has particular therapeutic expertise or that involve a large, primary care market that must be served by large sales and marketing organizations or for markets outside of North America. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we successfully enter into a collaboration, we cannot provide assurance that our partner will perform its contractual obligations or will not terminate the agreement. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular drug candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our drug candidates to market and generate product revenue. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our drug candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenue. We do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize and market any of our products that may be approved by the FDA, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial, and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and we may not become profitable. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If our patent position does not adequately protect our drug candidates or any future products, others could compete against us more directly, which would harm our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary protection for our drug candidates, technology, and know-how, to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others, and to prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions, and improvements that are important to the development of our 38 business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation, and in-licensing opportunities, as appropriate, to develop and maintain our proprietary position. As of March 4, 2011, our patent portfolio had a total of 724 patents and patent applications worldwide, including specific patent filings with claims to the composition-of-matter and methods of use of ganetespib and elesclomol. We own or have exclusively licensed a total of 50 issued U.S. patents and 120 U.S. patent applications, as well as 554 foreign counterparts to these patents and patent applications. With respect to our Hsp90 inhibitor program, we have 6 issued U.S. and foreign patents, and 104 pending U.S. and foreign counterpart patent applications. Any U.S. or foreign patent that issues covering ganetespib will expire no earlier than 2025. Our Hsp90 inhibitor patent portfolio covers ganetespib and structurally related analogs, pharmaceutical compositions, and methods for treating cancer. Additionally, we have multiple U.S. and corresponding foreign patent applications directed to other Hsp90 inhibitors. With respect to elesclomol, we have 2 issued U.S. patents that claim the chemical structure of elesclomol that expire no earlier than 2022. Both of these issued U.S. patents also claim related chemical structures, pharmaceutical compositions, and methods for treating a subject with cancer. In addition, we have an issued U.S. patent claiming the salt form of elesclomol that expires no earlier than 2025. We have pending U.S. patent applications covering compositions-of-matter, methods of treatment and other aspects of STA-9584, our CRACM ion channel inhibitors and our IL-12/23 inhibitors. Counterpart filings to these patents and patent applications have been made in a number of other jurisdictions, including Europe and Japan. The patent term of our U.S. patents may potentially be extended under applicable laws or regulations, such as the Patent Term Restoration Act. We have also in-licensed various technologies to complement our ongoing clinical and research programs. These licenses generally extend for the term of the related patent and contain customary royalty, termination, and other provisions. We have a license agreement with Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center that provides us with the exclusive commercial right to certain patent filings made by Beth Israel in the field of ion channels. We do not believe that this license agreement is currently material to our business. We also have a non-exclusive license to a U.S. patent assigned to Columbia University that could potentially cover a possible aspect of the elesclomol mechanism. This license is not royalty bearing unless we include specific mechanism language on the label of any approved product, in which case a nominal royalty would be owed. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain additional patents and protect our existing patent position as well as our ability to maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies, drug candidates, and any future products in the United States and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated, or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies, drug candidates, and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. 39 In addition, although we do not believe that any of the patents or patent applications that we currently license are material to our business, we may in the future license intellectual property that is material to us. In such cases, we may be dependent upon the licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for the licensed intellectual property. These licensors may not successfully prosecute patent applications or may fail to maintain issued patents. The licensors may also determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that infringe the patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. If any of the foregoing occurs, and the terms of any such future license do not allow us to assume control of patent prosecution, maintenance and enforcement, any competitive advantage we may have due to the license may be diminished or eliminated. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: •we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; •we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; •others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; •any of our or our licensors' pending patent applications will result in issued patents; •any of our or our licensors' patents will be valid or enforceable; •any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; •we will develop additional proprietary technologies or drug candidates that are patentable; or •the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. Although third parties may challenge our rights to, or the scope or validity of our patents, to date we have not received any communications from third parties challenging our patents or patent applications covering our drug candidates. We typically file for patent protection first on the composition-of-matter of our drug candidates and also claim their activities and methods for their production and use to the extent known at that time. As we learn more about the mechanisms of action and new methods of manufacture and use of these drug candidates, we generally file additional patent applications for these new inventions. Although our patents may prevent others from making, using, or selling similar products, they do not ensure that we will not infringe the patent rights of third parties. For example, because we sometimes identify the mechanism of action or molecular target of a given drug candidate after identifying its composition-of-matter and therapeutic use, we may not be aware until the mechanism or target is further elucidated that a third party has an issued or pending patent claiming biological activities or targets that may cover our drug candidate. If such a patent exists or is granted in the future, we cannot provide assurances that a license will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and 40 proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing or commercializing our drug candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and enforcing our own patents and proprietary rights against others. Certain of our research and development programs are in highly competitive fields in which numerous third parties have issued patents and patent applications with claims closely related to the subject matter of our programs. We are not currently aware of any litigation or other proceedings or claims by third parties that our drug candidates, technologies or methods infringe their intellectual property. However, while it is our practice to conduct freedom to operate searches and analyses, we cannot guarantee that we have identified every patent or patent application that may be relevant to the research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates. In the case of patent applications, we assess the likelihood of claims in pending, third party patent applications being allowed which may interfere with our freedom to operate relative to our drug candidates. We cannot provide assurances that our assessments in this regard will be correct and that patent claims covering our drug candidates that were assessed a low likelihood of issuance by us will not issue to a third party in the future. Moreover, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert against us patents that we believe are not infringed by us or are invalid. For example, we are aware of a U.S. patent and a related European patent that claim generic chemical structures, pharmaceutical formulations and methods of treatment relating to compounds similar to ganetespib and a U.S. patent that claims methods of treating certain cancers using Hsp90 inhibitors. The claims of these patents may be relevant to the commercialization of our drug candidate, ganetespib. However, based on our analysis of these patents, we do not believe that the manufacture, use, importation or sale of ganetespib would infringe any valid claim of these patents. However, we cannot guarantee that these patents would not be asserted against us and, if asserted, that a court would find these patents to be invalid or not infringed. In the event of a successful infringement action against us with respect to any third party patent rights, we may be required to: •pay substantial damages; •stop developing, commercializing, and selling the infringing drug candidates or approved products; •stop utilizing the infringing technologies and methods in our drug candidates or approved products; •develop non-infringing products, technologies, and methods; and •obtain one or more licenses from other parties, which could result in our paying substantial royalties or our granting of cross licenses to our technologies. We may not be able to obtain licenses from other parties at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all, we could encounter substantial delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative technologies, methods, and products, which we may not be able to accomplish. 41 We may be subject to claims that we have wrongfully hired an employee from a competitor or that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged confidential information or trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we have previously been subject to a claim by an alleged competitor that a prospective employee we sought to hire was bound by an ongoing non-competition obligation which prevented us from hiring this employee. We may be subject in the future to claims that our employees or prospective employees are subject to a continuing obligation to their former employers (such as non-competition or non-solicitation obligations) or claims that our employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to the Commercialization of Our Drug Candidates If physicians and patients do not accept our future products or if the markets for indications for which any drug candidate is approved is smaller than expected, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if any of our current drug candidates or any other drug candidates we may develop or acquire in the future obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients, and the medical community. Physicians may elect not to recommend these drugs for a variety of reasons including: •timing of market introduction of competitive products; •demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; •cost-effectiveness; •availability of reimbursement from government health programs and other third- party payors; •convenience and ease of administration; •prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; •restrictions on the drug label; •other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and •ineffective marketing and distribution support of our products. If any approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and our business would suffer. If the government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our future products, if any, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, commercial health insurers, and managed care organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage and the amounts that they will pay for new drugs, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our drugs. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future products to such 42 payors' satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of financial and other resources. Our future products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. U.S. and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. For example, in some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing of prescription drugs. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental controls. In addition, Medicare and increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical product pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenue and profitability. Accordingly, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals might change before our drug candidates are approved for marketing. Adoption of such legislation could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drugs prescribed for the elderly and disabled and introduced new reimbursement methodologies. Although we do not know what the full impact of the new reimbursement methodologies will have on the prices of new drugs, we expect that there will be added pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products, not only from Medicare, but also from private payors which often follow Medicare's policies, and could seriously harm our business. Changes in healthcare policy could increase our costs, decrease our revenues and impact sales of and reimbursement for any approved products. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. This law provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear how such a result could be avoided and what if any effect the research will have on the sales of our product candidates, if any such product or the condition that it is intended to treat is the subject of a study. It is also possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits in a competitor's product could adversely affect the sales of our product candidates. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our product candidates or a decision by a third-party payor to not cover our product candidates could reduce physician usage of the product candidate and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the Affordable Care Act or the ACA). The ACA is expected to have a significant impact on the health care industry. The ACA is expected to expand coverage for the uninsured while at the same time contain overall healthcare costs. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, the ACA is expected to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare D program. We cannot predict the impact of the ACA on pharmaceutical companies as many of the ACA reforms require the promulgation of detailed regulations implementing the statutory provisions which has not yet occurred. In addition, the current legal challenges to the ACA, as well as congressional efforts to repeal the ACA, add to the uncertainty of the legislative changes enacted as part of the ACA. 43 In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, we could be forced to pay substantial damage awards. The use of any of our drug candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, might expose us to product liability claims. For example, we may face product liability claims by patients treated with elesclomol, whether or not elesclomol harmed the patients in any way. We currently maintain product liability insurance, and we monitor the amount of coverage we maintain as the size and design of our clinical trials evolve and adjust the amount of coverage we maintain accordingly. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage will fully protect us against some or all of the claims to which we might become subject. We might not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against potential losses. In the event a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity could result, all of which could harm our business. If we inadvertently violate the guidelines pertaining to promotion and advertising of our clinical candidates or approved products, we may be subject to disciplinary action by the FDA's Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications or other regulatory bodies. The FDA's Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications, or DDMAC, is responsible for reviewing prescription drug advertising and promotional labeling to ensure that the information contained in these materials is not false or misleading. There are specific disclosure requirements and the applicable regulations mandate that advertisements cannot be false or misleading or omit material facts about the product. Prescription drug promotional materials must present a fair balance between the drug's effectiveness and the risks associated with its use. Most warning letters from DDMAC cite inadequate disclosure of risk information. DDMAC prioritizes its actions based on the degree of risk to the public health, and often focuses on newly introduced drugs and those associated with significant health risks. There are two types of letters that DDMAC typically sends to companies which violate its drug advertising and promotional guidelines: notice of violation letters, or untitled letters, and warning letters. In the case of an untitled letter, DDMAC typically alerts the drug company of the violation and issues a directive to refrain from future violations, but does not typically demand other corrective action. A warning letter is typically issued in cases that are more serious or where the company is a repeat offender. Although we have not received any such letters from DDMAC, we may inadvertently violate DDMAC's guidelines in the future and be subject to a DDMAC untitled letter or warning letter, which may have a negative impact on our business. 44 We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting "kickbacks" and false or fraudulent claims, and state gift ban laws which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. A federal law commonly known as the federal antikickback law, and several similar state laws, prohibit the payment of any remuneration that is intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of health care products or services. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. A number of states have enacted laws that require pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report payments, gifts and other remuneration made to physicians and other health care professional and health care organizations. Some state statutes, such as the one in Massachusetts, impose an outright ban on gifts to physicians. These laws are often referred to as "gift ban" or "aggregate spend" laws, and they carry substantial fines if they are violated. Similar legislation, known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, has been introduced in Congress each year for the past several years, but has not yet been enacted. In the event that we are found to have violated these laws or decide to settle a claim that we have done so, our business may be materially adversely affected as a result of any payments required to be made, restrictions on our future operations or actions required to be taken, damage to our business reputation or adverse publicity in connection with such a finding or settlement or other adverse effects relating thereto. Additionally, even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry We may not be able to keep up with the rapid technological change in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, which could make any future approved products obsolete and reduce our revenue. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technologies have undergone and continue to be subject to rapid and significant change. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our drug discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies. In addition, any future products that we develop, including our clinical drug candidates, may become obsolete before we recover expenses incurred in developing those products, which may require that we raise additional funds to continue our operations. Our market is subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our drug candidates may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. We are engaged in segments of the pharmaceutical industry that are highly competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs that target cancer and chronic inflammatory diseases. We face, and expect to continue to face, intense and increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. In addition to currently approved drugs, there are a significant number of drugs that are currently under development and may become available in the future for the treatment of cancer and chronic inflammatory diseases. We would expect our drug candidates to 45 compete with marketed drugs and potentially with drug candidates currently under development. Many of our competitors have: •significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize drug candidates; •more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; •drug candidates that have been approved or are in late-stage clinical development; and/or •collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Competitive products may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing our drug candidates. Furthermore, the development of new treatment methods and/or the widespread adoption or increased utilization of any vaccine for the diseases we are targeting could render our drug candidates noncompetitive, obsolete or uneconomical. If we successfully develop and obtain approval for our drug candidates, we will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our drug candidates, the timing of their entry into the market in relation to competitive products in development, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. If we successfully develop drug candidates but those drug candidates do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be successful. In particular, we believe that our products face the following sources of significant competition: Ganetespib. If approved, ganetespib may compete against the currently approved therapies for the treatment of various cancer types and other cancer treatments currently under development. In particular, ganetespib may compete with other agents under development that inhibit Hsp90, including IPI-504 and IPI-493, being developed by Infinity Pharmaceuticals, AUY922 and HSP990, being developed by Novartis/Vernalis, KW-2478, being developed by Kyowa Hakko Kirin, MPC-3100, being developed by Myrexis, XL888, being developed by Exelixis, AT13387, being developed by Astex, and Debio0932, being developed by Curis/Debiopharma, among others. Elesclomol. If approved, elesclomol may compete with other anticancer agents whose mechanisms may involve the induction of oxidative stress, including arsenic trioxide, hydroxyurea and NOV-002, being developed by Novelos/Mundipharma in the U.S. and marketed as Glutoxim by Pharma Vam in Russia. STA-9584. If approved, STA-9584 may compete with the currently approved therapies for the treatment of cancers, and other cancer treatments currently under development, including other vascular disrupting agents such as CA4P, being developed by Oxigene; AVE8062 being developed by Sanofi-Aventis, BNC105, being developed by Bionomics, MPC-6827 (Azixa), being developed by Myrexis, EPC-2407 (crolibulin), being developed by EpiCept, NPI-2358 (plinabulin) being developed by Nereus Pharmaceuticals, and CYT997, being developed by YM BioSciences. CRACM Ion Channel Inhibitors. If approved, CRACM inhibitors may compete with the currently approved therapies for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, and other antiinflammatory treatments currently under development, including other CRACM inhibitors, oral inhibitors of other targets, and biologics approaches. 46 IL-12/23 Inhibitors. If approved, IL-12/23 inhibitors may compete against the currently approved therapies for the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases, including: •Stelara, a fully human monoclonal antibody targeting the p40 subunit of IL-12 and IL-23, marketed by Johnson & Johnson and approved in the U.S. and Europe for the treatment of plaque psoriasis and in Japan for the treatment of plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. IL-12/23 inhibitors may also compete with briakinumab (ABT-874), a fully human anti-IL-12/23 monoclonal antibody being developed by Abbott Laboratories. Regulatory applications in the U.S. and Europe for approval of briakinumab for the treatment of psoriasis were withdrawn in January 2011 following regulatory feedback indicating that further data and analysis would be required. •large-molecule, injectable TNF-antagonists, including, among others: Remicade, marketed by Johnson & Johnson; Enbrel, marketed by Amgen and Wyeth Pharmaceuticals; and Humira, marketed by Abbott Laboratories; and •broadly immunosuppressive small molecule agents including corticosteroids and azathioprine. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in drug discovery, development and commercialization to: •discover and develop medicines that are superior to other products in the market; •attract high-quality scientific, product development, and commercial personnel; •obtain patent and/or proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies; •obtain required regulatory approvals; •selectively commercialize certain drug candidates in indications treated by specialist physicians; and •selectively partner with pharmaceutical companies in the development and commercialization of certain drug candidates. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth We may be unsuccessful in retaining certain key personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense and we must retain and motivate highly qualified scientific personnel. We are highly dependent on certain officers and employees, including Safi R. Bahcall, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, and certain principal members of our executive and scientific teams. All of the agreements with these principal members of our executive and scientific teams provide that employment is at-will and may be terminated by the employee at any time and without notice. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development, and commercialization objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and possibly sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. We do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. 47 If we make strategic acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and might never realize the anticipated benefits. All of our acquisitions to date have been of related parties. Accordingly, we have very limited experience in independently identifying acquisition candidates and integrating the operations of truly independent acquisition candidates with our company. Currently we are not a party to any acquisition agreements, nor do we have any understanding or commitment with respect to any such acquisition. If appropriate opportunities become available, however, we might attempt to acquire approved products, additional drug candidates, or businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we pursue any transaction of that sort, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired product, drug candidate, or business might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may drop. Prior to our February 2007 initial public offering, there was not a public market for our common stock. There is a limited history on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price; however, since our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Global Market on February 6, 2007 through December 31, 2010, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $1.20 to a high of $11.25. Furthermore, the stock market has recently experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and other life sciences company stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: •results of our ongoing and contemplated clinical trials of ganetespib, and results from any other future clinical trials of ganetespib; •results of our ongoing and contemplated clinical trials of elesclomol, and results from any other future clinical trials of elesclomol; •results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; •failure or delays in advancing STA-9584 or our CRACM inhibitor program, or other drug candidates we may discover or acquire in the future, into clinical trials; •failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; •potential for merger or acquisition; •key personnel changes; •issues in manufacturing our drug candidates or approved products; •regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries; •developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; •introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; 48 •failure to secure adequate capital to fund our operations, or the issuance of equity securities at prices below fair market price; •changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our common stock; •public concern over our drug candidates or any approved products; •litigation; •future sales of our common stock; •general market conditions; •changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; •failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; •economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; •period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and •overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Insiders have substantial control over us which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management and/or the board of directors. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates and related persons, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 45% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: •delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control; •entrenching our management and/or the board of directors; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Provisions of our charter, bylaws, and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, acquisition, or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. 49 Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: •allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; •establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of the board of directors be elected at one time; •authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a "poison pill" to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; •require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; •establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; •limit who may call stockholder meetings; and •require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, our stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, we are currently prohibited from making a dividend payment under the terms of our Loan and Security Agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be the sole source of gain on an investment in our common stock for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 