Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. Our business is principally focused on the health care industry We derive substantially all of our revenues from clients in the health care industry and, through at least February 5, 2011, are prohibited as part of a collaboration agreement with The Corporate Executive Board Company from selling membership-based best practice research programs to organizations other than non-profit organizations or organizations principally engaged in the businesses of health care or education. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations are impacted by conditions affecting the health care industry generally and hospitals and health systems particularly. Our ability to grow will depend in part upon the economic environment of the health care industry generally as well as our ability to increase the number of programs and services that we sell to our members. Factors that adversely affect the revenues and cash flows of the health care industry, including operating results, capital requirements, regulation and litigation, can be expected to reduce the funds available for purchase of our products and services. We depend on renewals of our membership-based services We derive most of our revenues from renewable memberships in our discrete annual programs. Our prospects therefore depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on existing programs and to enter into new membership arrangements. Failure to achieve high renewal rates would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success in securing renewals depends upon our members’ budgetary environment, our ability to deliver consistent, reliable, high-quality and timely research, tools and analysis with respect to issues, developments and trends that members view as important. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain the level of performance necessary to achieve a high rate of renewals and, as a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or even maintain our revenues. Programs we launch in the future may not be successful Our future success depends on our ability to develop new programs that serve specific constituencies and the changing needs of our current and prospective members for information, analysis and advice. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we were unable to develop and introduce successful new programs or other new services, or to make enhancements to existing programs, in a timely manner in response to member requirements. We cannot assure you that our efforts to introduce new programs will be successful. Delays or failures during development or implementation, or lack of market acceptance, of new programs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may experience difficulties sustaining a membership base in our installation support programs Eight of our programs offer support to help accelerate the installation of best practices profiled in our research studies. Our installation support includes both the management tools and the associated on-site sessions and is typically packaged and delivered to each member within a 12-month period. These memberships are not individually renewable. In order to maintain our annual revenues and contract value from these programs, we will have to enroll new members each year as other members complete their program terms. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in selling these programs in the future. Lack of continued market acceptance of these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may experience difficulties in anticipating market trends Our future success depends upon our ability to anticipate changing market trends and to adapt our research, tools and analysis to meet the changing needs of our members. We may not be able to provide helpful and timely research and analysis of developments and trends in a manner that meets market needs. Any such failure would have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, the health care industry undergoes frequent and often dramatic changes, including the introduction of new and the obsolescence of old technology, changing payment systems and regulatory environments, shifting strategies and market positions of major industry participants and changing objectives and expectations of health care consumers. This environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our members with current and timely research, analysis, web-based tools, and installation support around issues and topics of importance. Meeting these challenges requires the commitment of substantial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these challenges. 11 Consolidation in the health care industry could adversely affect our business Many health care providers, insurers, medical device companies and pharmaceutical companies have consolidated to create larger organizations. New ownership of some of the consolidated organizations or increased centralization of established but previously loosely-affiliated health care systems could result in greater scrutiny of discretionary spending on business services, including our programs. In addition, further consolidation could reduce the number of current and potential clients for our services. A reduction in the size of our key target market could have a material adverse effect on our business. The larger organizations resulting from consolidation in the health care industry could have greater bargaining power, which could affect the current pricing structure for our services. In addition, group purchasing organizations and managed care organizations could increase pressure on providers of health care related services, like ourselves, to reduce prices. Our failure to maintain adequate pricing levels could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must attract and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees Our future success depends upon our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees, particularly research analysts, technical experts and sales and marketing staff. Our inability to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition for professional personnel from management consulting firms and other producers of research, technology and analysis services. Many of these firms have substantially greater financial resources than we do to attract and compensate qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting a sufficient number of highly skilled employees in the future, or that we will be successful in training, motivating and retaining the employees we are able to hire. Potential liability claims may adversely affect our business Our services, which involve recommendations and advice to health care organizations regarding complex business and operational processes, regulatory and compliance issues and labor practices, may give rise to liability claims by our members or by third parties who bring claims against our members and us. Health care organizations often are the subject of regulatory scrutiny and litigation, and we cannot assure you that we would not also be the subject of such litigation based on our advice and services. A successful liability claim brought against us may adversely affect our reputation in the health care industry and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we would have adequate insurance coverage for claims against us. We may experience fluctuations in operating results Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to various factors, including the growth in and timing of new programs; our revenue mix; the timing of the development, introduction, general availability and marketing of new products, technologies and services; the timing of executive education seminars; the timing of the hiring of research analysts, technical experts and sales and marketing staff; changes in the spending patterns of our members; changes in our accounts receivable collection experience; changes in market demand for research, tools and analysis; competitive conditions in the industry; and general economic conditions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Cost containment pressures on health care providers may reduce the market for our services Health care providers have come under increasing pressure to contain operating costs in response to such factors as changes in reimbursement rates and increases in labor costs driven by workforce shortages. Health care financing entities, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health plans, periodically adjust reimbursement rates to health care providers in response to changes in government legislation or market pressure to slow the growth of health care costs. As a result, health care providers may decrease the amounts they spend on professional services companies or pressure the companies to lower the cost of the services and products they provide, which could adversely impact our revenues and/or operating margin and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Future competition may adversely affect our business We compete in discrete programs and for discretionary dollars against both health care-focused and multi-industry business services firms. These include consulting and strategy firms; market research, data, benchmarking and forecasting providers; technology vendors and services firms; technology advisory firms; and specialized providers of educational and training services. Other entities, such as state and national trade associations, group purchasing organizations, non-profit think-tanks and database companies, may also offer research, consulting, tools and education services to health care organizations. A failure to adequately track, understand or address competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business. 12 In addition, as part of a collaboration agreement between us and The Corporate Executive Board Company, through at least February 5, 2011, The Corporate Executive Board Company is generally prohibited from selling certain membership-based best practice research products and services to health care providers. Upon expiration of the collaboration agreement’s noncompetition obligations, The Corporate Executive Board Company may sell membership-based best practices research programs in direct competition with some of our discrete programs. Direct competition with The Corporate Executive Board Company in these programs may have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Regulatory change in our market may adversely affect our business Changing political, economic and regulatory influences on health care providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These influences affect the operations and purchasing practices of health care organizations. Federal and state legislatures periodically have considered programs to reform or amend the United States health care system at both the federal and state level. These efforts could adversely affect our members by resulting in lower reimbursement rates for health care providers, which could change the environment in which providers operate and reduce the willingness or ability of our members to renew or pay for our products and services. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights We rely on copyright laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements, to protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our rights or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property, our ability to charge fees for our services would be adversely affected. We may be exposed to litigation related to content or tools As a publisher and distributor of original research and analysis, developer of decision support tools and user of licensed third-party content and web-based tools, we face potential liability for defamation, negligence or intellectual property infringement. Any such litigation, whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third-party content includes information created or provided by information services organizations and consultants whom we retain and may be delivered in writing, over the Internet or orally to our members. We may face damage to our professional reputation and business prospects if our clients are not satisfied with our services As a provider of best practices research, analysis, and decision support tools, our professional reputation is an important factor in attracting and retaining our members and in building relationships with the progressive health care companies that supply many of the best practices we feature in our research. If members were to become dissatisfied with the quality of our best practices research, online tools and services we provide, our professional reputation could be damaged. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to loss of client relationships that could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be exposed to loss of revenue resulting from our unconditional service guarantee We offer an unconditional service guarantee in a majority of our membership programs. At any time, a member who has a guarantee may request a refund of their membership fee. Refunds are provided on a pro rata basis relative to the remaining term of the membership. Requests for refunds of membership fees by a significant number of our members could lower revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Sustained or repeated hardware, network or application failures or delays in or problems with our development or implementation of decision-support tools could impair our operations and impact our members’ perception of value, or prevent us from meeting our contractual obligations The timely development and implementation of and continuous and uninterrupted performance of our hardware, network and applications, including those which may be provided by third parties, are important to our delivery of services to our customers. Our ability to protect these processes and systems against unexpected adverse events is a key factor in continuing to offer our members our full complement of services on time in an uninterrupted manner. System failures or performance failures by our relevant third party suppliers that interrupt our ability to develop applications or implement and provide our services could be outside our control and could negatively affect our members’ perception of the value of our services. Delays or interruptions in the delivery of our services could result from unknown hardware defects, insufficient technical or staff 13 capacity or the failure of our third party suppliers (such as website hosting and telecommunications providers) to meet their contractual obligations to us to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. Such delays or interruptions could also result from member data extraction issues beyond our control. Further, members also depend on Internet service providers to allow them to access to our services. Any hardware failure, disruption in web hosting, telecommunications or Internet access, or any failure to handle higher volumes of user traffic, could harm our business. Changes in estimates or interpretations under financial accounting standards related to share-based payments could have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“FAS 123(R)”), a complex accounting standard that requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and similar awards and was effective for the company as of April 1, 2006. The application of FAS 123(R) requires significant judgment and the use of estimates, particularly surrounding stock price volatility, option forfeiture rates and expected option lives, to build a model for appropriately valuing share-based compensation. There is limited experience or guidance with respect to developing these assumptions and models. There is also some uncertainty as to how FAS 123(R) will be interpreted and applied as companies and their advisors gain more experience with the standard. There is a risk that, as we and others gain experience with FAS 123(R) or as a result of subsequent accounting guidelines, we could determine that the assumptions or model we used require modification. Any such modification could result in significantly different charges in future periods and, potentially, could require us to record an adjustment to, or correct the charges taken in, prior periods. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. Any such adjustments or corrections of charges could negatively affect our results of operations, stock price and our stock price volatility and/or could adversely impact our ability to obtain results on a GAAP basis that are consistent with previously provided financial guidance concerning our expected results of operations. There may be risks related to our status as a Qualified High Technology Company In February 2006, we received notification from the Office of Tax and Revenue of the District of Columbia that we had been certified, effective January 1, 2004, as a Qualified High Technology Company under the New E-Conomy Transformation Act of 2000 (“the Act”), as amended. This certification had the effect of reducing our Washington, D.C. statutory income tax rate to 0.0% through calendar year 2008, and 6.0% thereafter, compared to 9.975% per year without the qualification. As a result, during the year ended March 31, 2006 we recorded a one-time noncash charge of $6.7 million, net of certain tax credits as provided in the Act. We cannot assure you that our business activities and operations will continue to qualify as QHTC activities under the Act in the future. We may not be able to fully realize our deferred tax asset For tax purposes, we have deferred income taxes consisting primarily of net operating loss carry forwards for regular federal and state income tax purposes generated from the exercise of common stock options. If our future taxable income is less than what we believe it will be, we may not be able to fully realize our deferred tax asset. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 