ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. In recent years, we have developed and implemented a lending strategy that focuses less on residential real estate lending and more on servicing commercial customers, including increased emphasis on commercial and industrial lending and commercial deposit relationships. Commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial and Industrial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business. • Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage or loss. Due to the ongoing economic recession, the real estate market and local economy are continuing to deteriorate which has adversely affected the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business, thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. The decreases in real estate values have adversely affected the value of property used as collateral for our commercial real estate loans. The continued deterioration in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our commercial borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on our earnings. In addition, if poor economic conditions continue to result in decreased demand for loans, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments may earn less income for us than loans. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. If dividends paid on our investment in the FHLBB continue to be suspended, or if our investment is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired, our earnings and/or stockholders’ equity could decrease. We own common stock of the FHLBB to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBB’s advance program. There is no market for our FHLBB common stock. The FHLBB previously announced that the dividend paid on its common stock has been suspended indefinitely. The continued suspension of the dividend will decrease our income. There can be no assurance that such dividends will be reinstated in the future. Further, there can be no assurance that the impact of recent or future legislation on the Federal Home Loan Banks also will not cause a decrease in the value of the FHLBB stock held by us. 25 It is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLBB common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease of our net interest income. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Changes in the national and local economy may affect our future growth possibilities. Our current market area is principally located in Hampden County, Massachusetts. Our future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of our regional economy and our ability to expand our market area. The continued downturn in our local economy may limit funds available for deposit and may negatively affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis, both of which could have an impact on our profitability. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. The ongoing economic recession, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds and decrease in our stock price. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. We have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Executive Vice President and General Counsel and change of control agreements with several other senior executive officers, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, as its chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of its deposits up to certain limits. In addition, the OTS regulates and oversees Westfield Financial. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC’s insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. 26 As discussed above under the caption “Regulation,” financial institutions have been the subject of significant legislative and regulatory changes and will continue to be the subject of further significant legislation or regulation in the future, none of which is within our control. These changes as well as any future change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, other state or federal regulators, or the United States Congress could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the cost and burden of compliance, over time, could significantly increase and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for deposits has come from savings and commercial banks. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms. We also face additional competition from internet-based institutions, brokerage firms and insurance companies. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address these difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The U.S. Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) in response to the impact of the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets on the financial sector. The U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “Treasury”) and the federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation that are intended to address these conditions and the asset quality, capital and liquidity issues they have caused for certain financial institutions and to improve the general availability of credit for consumers and businesses. In addition, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) in an effort to save and create jobs, stimulate the U.S. economy and promote long-term growth and stability. There can be no assurance that EESA, ARRA or the programs that are implemented under them will achieve their intended purposes. The failure of EESA, ARRA or the programs that are implemented under them to achieve their intended purposes could result in a continuation or worsening of current economic and market conditions, and this could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and/or the trading price of our common stock. FDIC deposit insurance premiums have increased and may increase further in the future. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The FDIC’s reserve ratio has continued to decline due to costs associated with bank failures and FDIC-assisted transactions, and the reserve ratio is expected to continue to decline due to future bank failures and FDIC-assisted transactions. Pursuant to the EESA, the maximum deposit insurance amount has been increased from $100,000 to $250,000 until December 31, 2013 and certain types of deposit accounts will have unlimited deposit insurance coverage through that date. On October 13, 2008, the FDIC established a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program under which the FDIC will fully guarantee all non-interest-bearing transaction accounts through June 30, 2010, and all senior unsecured debt issued between April 1, 2009 and October 31, 2009 of any insured depository institution or their qualified holding companies that did not opt out of the program. Senior unsecured debt includes federal funds purchased and certificates of deposit outstanding to the credit of the bank with a maturity of 30 days or greater. These increases have increased the aggregate amount of deposits that the FDIC insures and thus have exposed the FDIC’s deposit insurance fund to potentially greater losses. We will be subject to increased deposit premium expenses in 2009 and future years which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 27 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 