Risk factors The investor should take into account the risks described below, and the other information contained in this Annual Report, when evaluating investment in our Company. Risks relating to CEMIG We are not certain that new concessions will be obtained, nor that our present concessions will be renewed on terms as favorable as those currently in effect, nor that the indemnities received in the event of non-renewal of a concession will correspond to the expected value. We operate most of our power generation, transmission and distribution activities under concession contracts entered into with the Brazilian federal government. The Brazilian Constitution requires that all concessions relating to public services be awarded through a bidding process. In 1995, in an effort to implement these constitutional provisions, the federal government adopted certain laws and regulations, known collectively as the Concessions Law, governing bidding procedures in the power industry. On September 11, 2012 the Brazilian government issued Provisional Measure 579 of 2012 (‘PM 579’), later converted into Law Nº 12,783 of January 11, 2013, which governs extension of the concessions granted prior to Law Nº 9074 of July 7, 1995. Under that law, as from September 12, 2012 these concessions can be extended only once, for up to 30 years, at the option of the concession-granting power. On December 4, 2012, the Company signed the second amendment to Transmission Concession Contract 006/1997, extending this concession for 30 years under the terms of Provisional Measure 579 (‘PM 579’), from January 1, 2013. This resulted in an adjustment to the Permitted Annual Revenue (Receita Anual Permitida, or RAP), reducing the revenue that we will receive from those concessions. The Brazilian government has compensated us for the reduction of the RAP of part of those concessions, but the assets in operation before the year of 2000 have not yet been compensated. According to Law Nº 12,783/13, we will be compensated for the reduction of the RAP of the assets in operation before 2000, in 30 years, adjusted for the Amplified National Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo, or IPCA). The Company opted not to request extension of the generation concessions that expire within the period 2013 to 2017. For the plants that would have had a first extension before the issuance of PM 579, namely the Jaguara, São Simão and Miranda plants, the Company believes that Generation Concession Contract 007/1997 allows for the extension of the concession of those plants for an additional 20 years, without application of any additional restriction. Based on this understanding Cemig GT applied for an order of mandamus against an act of the Mining and Energy Minister with the objective of ensuring its right to extension of the period of the concession of the Jaguara Hydroelectric Plant, in the terms of Clause 4 of Concession Contract 007/1997, obeying the original bases of this contract, which were prior to Law Nº 12,783/2013. The Company was granted an interim injunction, which is still in effect, to remain in control of the operation of the Jaguara hydroelectric plant until a judgment is given by the courts on the application for mandamus. On the same grounds, and with expiry imminent of the period originally specified for the concession of the São Simão Hydroelectric Plant (‘the São Simão Plant’), Cemig Generation and Transmission (‘Cemig GT’) applied for an order of mandamus against an act of the Mining and Energy Minister, with the objective of ensuring its right to extension of the period of the concession, under Clause 4 of Concession Contract 007/1997, obeying the original bases of this contract, which were prior to Law Nº 12783/2013. The Company obtained initial interim relief from the court, which is still in force, to enable it to continue in control of the commercial operation of the São Simão Plant until judgment is given in the application for mandamus in relation to the Jaguara Plant (referred to above). The Reporting Justice of the Court stated in his interim decision that in the event that the judgment on the mandamus in the Jaguara case is not given within 45 days after the start of the activities of the First Section of the Higher Appeal Court (Tribunal Superior de Justiça, or STJ) in 2015, he may re-examine the case. The chances of loss in both these actions – relating to the Jaguara Plant and the São Simão Plant – have been classified in the category ‘possible’, due to their nature and the complexity involved in these particular cases. The case has several particular elements characterizing the contingency: the singular nature of Concession Contract No. 007/1997, the unprecedented nature of the subject matter, and the fact that the two actions will be regarded as leading cases when extension of concessions is considered by the Brazilian Courts. In January 2015, the Company, through its CEO, indicated to the market that it assumes the commitment to negotiate continuity of the concession of the plants referred to, that is to say the Jaguara, São Simão, and Miranda hydroelectric plants. 8 Table of Contents For the other generating plants with concessions that expire over the period from 2015 to 2017 – which include Três Marias, Salto Grande, Itutinga, Camargos, Piau, Gafanhoto, Peti, Tronqueiras, Joasal, Martins, Cajuru, Paciência, Marmelos, Sumidouro, Anil, Poquim, Dona Rita and Volta Grande – we have opted not to apply for extension under the terms of MP 579. As a result the generation business will not be affected negatively until the end of those concessions. In light of the degree of discretion granted to the Federal Government in relation to new concession contracts and renewal of existing concessions, and due to the new provisions established by PM 579 (and subsequently Law 12,783/13) for renewals of distribution, generation and transmission concession contracts, we cannot guarantee: (i) that new concessions will be obtained; nor (ii) that our present concessions will be renewed on terms as favorable as those currently in effect; nor (iii) that the indemnities received in the event of non-renewal of a concession will be in the amount expected. In this context, unfavorable events in relation to the concessions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition Brazil’s supply of electricity depends heavily on hydroelectric plants, which in turn depend on climatic conditions to produce electricity. As is widely known, hydroelectric generation is predominant in Brazil – constituting more than 70% of total installed capacity. The advantages of hydroelectric power have also been widely publicized: it is a renewable resource, and enables substantial expenditures on fuels in thermal generation plants to be avoided. At the same time the main difficulty in the use of this resource arises from the variability of the flows to the plants: There are substantial seasonal variations in monthly flows and in the total of flows over the year, which depend fundamentally on the volume of rain that falls in each rainy season. To deal with this difficulty the Brazilian system has a complementary thermal generation system – with about 20% of its total power generation capacity. It also has accumulation reserves, for the purposes of maintaining water from the rainy season to the dry season and from one year to the next. However, these mechanisms are not capable of absorbing all the adverse consequences of a prolonged shortage of water, such as the one that has occurred in 2014, to date. The operation of the whole system is coordinated by the National System Operator (Operador Nacional do Sistema, or ONS). Its primary function is to achieve optimal operation of the resources available, minimizing operational cost, and the risks of shortage of electricity. In periods when the hydrological situation is adverse, the ONS can reduce generation by hydroelectric plants and increase thermal generation, which results in higher costs for the hydroelectric generators – as it did in 2014. In the distribution companies, this increase in costs generates an increase in the price of purchase of electricity that is not always passed through directly to the consumer, causing mismatches in cash flows, with adverse effect on business, and financial conditions. Also, in the event of extreme shortages of electricity due to adverse hydrological situations, the system could undergo rationing, which can mainly result in a reduction of cash flow. To mitigate the effect of the seasonality of generation of the hydroelectric plants, the Energy Reallocation Mechanism (Mecanismo de Realocação de Energia, or MRE) was created. This mechanism shares the generation of all the hydraulic plants in the system in such a way as to compensate the shortage of generation of one plant with excess generation by another, thus completing the generation necessary from all the plants in the MRE. However, this mechanism is not capable of mitigating the whole of the risk of the generation agents, because when there is a very adverse hydrological situation, such that all the plants in aggregate are unable to reach the sum of their Physical Guarantee levels of power output, this mechanism makes an adjustment to the Physical Guarantee of each plant through the Physical Guarantee Adjustment Factor (Fator de Ajuste da Garantia Física, or GSF), leading the generating companies to an exposure to the short-term (‘spot’) market . In 2014, factors such as reduction of consumption, low storage levels in the reservoirs, low hydrology and higher dispatching of thermoelectric plants led to reduction in hydroelectric generation which in turn affected the GSF factor, causing it be lower. The generators are aware of this risk – they normally separate approximately 5% of their physical guarantee levels to mitigate the levels of the GSF. However, as we have seen extraordinary events led to a GSF below the values expected by the generators, closing the year of 2014 at 0.91. This means a reduction of almost 10% in the output of the generators – and when there is no excess to compensate this reduction the results is that they are exposed to the spot market. The exposures to the spot market, and the balance between requirements and resources, are measured monthly by the CCEE. These exposures, negative or positive, are valued by the spot price (PLD). If the exposures are negative the generator will have a debit in the CCEE, thus affecting its cash flow. The rules for electricity trading and market conditions may affect the sale prices of electricity. Under the applicable law, our generation companies are not allowed to sell electricity directly to our distribution companies: the power produced by our generation companies is sold in the Regulated Market (Ambiente de Contratação Regulado, or ACR – also referred to as the ‘Pool’) through public auctions conducted by ANEEL, or in the Free Market (Ambiente de Contratação Livre, or ACL). The applicable legislation allows the distributors that enter into contracts with the generation companies in the Regulated Market (ACR) to reduce the quantity of energy contracted by up to 4% per year, in relation to the value of the original contract, for the entire period of the contract, and this exposes our generation companies to the risk of not being able to sell this power, that has been de-contracted, at adequate prices. 9 Table of Contents We perform trading activities through power purchase and sale agreements, mainly in the Free Market (ACL), through our generation and trading companies. Contracts in the ACL may be entered into with other generating agents, energy traders, or mainly, with ‘Free Consumers’. Free Consumers are consumers with demand of 3MW or more: they are allowed to choose their electricity supplier. Some contracts allow this type of consumer to buy a higher or lower volume of electricity from our generation companies than originally contracted (by 5% on average), and this could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial situation. Other contracts do not allow for this kind of flexibility in the purchase of electricity, but increased competition in the Free Market could influence the occurrence of this type of arrangement in purchase contracts in the Free Market. In addition to the Free Consumers referred to above, there is a category of clients referred to as “Special Consumers”, which are those with contracted demand between 500 kW and 3 MW. Special Consumers are eligible to enter the Free Market provided they buy electricity from incentive-bearing alternative sources, such as Small Hydroelectric Plants, biomass plants or wind farms. We have conducted sales transactions for this type of electricity from certain electricity resources in certain companies of the group, and since 2009 the volume of sales of this type of incentive-bearing power supply has been gradually increased, and the Company has formed a portfolio of purchase contracts that now occupies an important space in the Brazilian electricity market for incentive-bearing alternative power sources. Contracts for sale of electricity to this type of client have specific flexibilities to serve their needs, and these flexibilities, of greater or lesser consumption, are linked to the historic behavior of these loads. Higher or lower levels of consumption by these clients may cause purchase or sale exposures to spot prices, which can have an adverse impact on our business, operation results and/or financial situation. Market variations, such as variations of prices for signature of new contracts, and of volumes consumed by our clients in accordance with flexibilities previously contracted, can lead to spot market positions, with the potential of a negative financial impact on our results. The Energy Reallocation Mechanism (Mecanismo de Realocação de Energia, or MRE) was created to reduce the exposure of the hydroelectric generators, such as our generation companies, to the uncertainties of hydrology. It functions as a pool of generators, in which the generation of all the plants participating in the MRE is shared in such a way as to meet the demand of the pool. When the totality of the plants generates less than the amount demanded, the mechanism reduces the assured offtake levels of the plants, causing a negative exposure to the short-term (‘spot’) market and, as a consequence, the need to purchase power supply at the ‘spot’ price (the Preço de Liquidação de Diferenças, or PLD). Analogously, when the totality of the plants generates more than the volume demanded, the mechanism increases the assured offtake level of the plants, leading to a positive exposure, permitted the sale of power at the spot rate (PLD). In years of very critical hydrology the reduction factor applying to the assured energy levels can reduce those levels of the hydroelectric plants by up to 20% or more. Low liquidity or volatility in future prices, due to market conditions and/or perceptions, could negatively affect our results of operations. Also, if we are unable to sell all the power that we have available (our own generation capacity plus contracts under which we have bought supply of power) in the regulated public auctions or in the Free Market, the unsold capacity will be sold in the Electricity Trading Chamber (Câmara de Comercialização de Energia Elétrica, or CCEE) at the spot price (PLD), which tends to be very volatile. If this occurs in periods of low spot prices, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Increases in electricity purchase prices could cause imbalance in the Company’s cash flow. The prices of electricity purchase contracts signed by electricity distribution concession holders such as ourselves are linked to certain variables that are not under their control, such as hydrological conditions and dispatching of thermoelectric plants. Although any increases are passed through to the electricity distribution concession holders in the form of tariff increases at the time of their tariff adjustments, this situation can result in mismatches of cash flow, with an adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In the trading year of 2013, the mismatch in the distributors’ cash flow was significantly reduced by the action in support of the distribution companies taken by the federal government, in directing funds from the Energy Development Account (Conta de Desenvolvimento Energético, or CDE) to pay a significant proportion of these expenses. In 2014, the hydrological situation led to an increase in the spot price (PLD), and consequently the cost of these contracts, added to effect of increased exposure to the spot market, further pressured the cash flow of the distributors. To alleviate the problem the government created an operational measure through the Electricity Trading Chamber (Câmara de Comercialização de Energia Elétrica, or CCEE), consisting of a series of bank loans paid to the distributors through the ‘ACR Account’ (or ‘Conta-ACR’). This account, managed by the CCEE, passes through to the distributors, each month, the amounts necessary to cover their exposure to the short-term market and their availability contracts. Subsequently, starting in 2015, this amount will be paid by an extra charge on tariffs to the consumer. Other measures taken by the government to relieve the pressure on the cash of the distributors were: (i) to hold an auction during the year, where power contracts for five years were traded; (ii) to reduce, in the spot market, the maximum spot price (PLD) for settlement of differences between the volumes contracted and consumed by the distributors; (iii) adoption of a system of ‘tariff bands’, starting in 2005, which will more rapidly transfer part of the costs to the consumers when the generating system is under adverse hydrological conditions. Also there is a provision for an adjustment of tariffs to be made by an extraordinary review of the concession contracts of distribution companies. 10 Table of Contents In 2014 the federal government undertook another round of funding support transactions, with funds from the Energy Development Account (Conta de Desenvolvimento Energético, or CDE). These funds relate to subsidies, including those for low-income consumers, and other components, including access for irrigators, access to water and water services, and rural consumption, which had been withdrawn from the tariff adjustment process at the implementation of Law Nº 12,783/2013. These funds were sourced from the federal government, and paid through Eletrobrás. We note that if there is a delay in these payments it could cause problems of mismatch in the cash flow of our distribution company (Cemig D). We are subject to extensive and uncertain governmental legislation and regulation and any changes to such legislation and regulation could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Brazilian federal government has been implementing policies that have a far-reaching impact on the Brazilian energy sector and, in particular, the electricity industry. As part of the restructuring of the industry, Law Nº 10,848 of March 15, 2004, known as the New Industry Model Law, introduced a new regulatory structure for the Brazilian electricity industry. This regulatory structure has undergone several changes over recent years, the most recent being the changes added by Provisional Measure 579 (‘PM 579’) (which was converted into Law 12,783), which governs the extension of the concessions granted by Law Nº 9,074 of July 7, 1995. Under this law, such concessions can, as from September 12, 2012, be extended only once, for up to 30 years, at the option of the concession-granting power. Alterations in the legislation or in the regulations relating to the Brazilian electricity industry could adversely affect our business strategy and the conduct of our activities if we are not able to anticipate the new conditions or if we are unable to absorb the new costs or pass them through to clients. Programs of investment and acquisitions will require additional capital, which might not be available on acceptable terms. We will need funds to finance acquisitions and investments. However, we cannot guarantee that we will have our own funds or that we will be able to raise such funds in a timely manner and in the necessary amounts, or at competitive rates (by issuance of debt securities, or raising of loans) to finance investments and acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain funds as planned, we may be unable to meet our acquisition commitments, and our investment program could suffer delays or significant changes, which could adversely affect our business, financial situation or future prospects. Disruptions in the operation of, or deterioration of the quality of, our services, or those of our subsidiaries, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial situation and results of operations. The operation of complex electricity generation, transmission and distribution systems and networks involves various risks, such as operational difficulties and unexpected interruptions, caused by accidents, breakage or failure of equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of availability and efficiency of assets, or disasters such as explosions, fires, natural phenomena, landslides, sabotage, vandalism, or other similar events. Furthermore, operational decisions by the authorities responsible for the electricity network, the environment, operations and other issues that affect electricity generation, transmission or distribution could adversely affect the functioning and profitability of the operations of our generation, transmission and distribution systems. If such factors occur, our insurance cover might be insufficient to cover in full the costs and losses that we might incur due to damage caused to our assets, or due to outages. Further, the revenues that the Company and its subsidiaries generate from establishing, operating and maintaining its facilities are related to the availability of the equipment and assets, and to the quality of the services (continuity and service in accordance with levels demanded by the regulations). Under the related concession contracts, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to: (i) reduction of their ‘Portion B’ allocation (due to increase of the component Q in the formula for the ‘X Factor’ at the time of the tariff review for the distributors; (ii) reduction of the Permitted Annual Revenue (Receita Anual Permitida, or RAP), for the transmission companies; (iii) effects on the Availability Factor (Fator de Indisponibilidade, or FID) and the offtake guarantee levels for the generation facilities; and (iv) application of penalties and payment of compensation amounts, depending on the scope, severity and duration of non-availability of the services and equipment. Therefore, outages or stoppages in our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or in substations or networks, may cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial situation and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We are controlled by the Government of a Brazilian State, which may have interests that are different from those of the other investors or of the Company. As our controlling shareholder, the government of the Brazilian State of Minas Gerais exercises substantial influence on the strategic orientation of our business. Currently it holds 51% of our common shares and, consequently, has the majority of votes in decisions of the General Meetings of Shareholders, and can: (i) elect the majority of the members of the Board of Directors; and (ii) approve matters that require a specific quorum of our shareholders. The latter include transactions with related parties, shareholding reorganizations and the date and payment of any dividends. The state government, in its status as our controlling shareholder, has the capacity to orient the Company to concentrate on activities and make investments that are intended to promote its own economic or social objectives, which may be not strictly in alignment with the strategy of the Company. Our subsidiaries may suffer intervention by public authorities to ensure appropriate provision of services, or imposition of fines by ANEEL, for failing to comply with their concession agreements and/or authorizations, which could result in fines, other penalties or, depending on the severity of the non-compliance, expropriation of the concession agreements or revocation of the authorizations. We conduct our generation, transmission and distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the federal government, through ANEEL, and/or pursuant to authorizations granted to the companies of our portfolio, as the case may be. ANEEL may impose penalties if we fail to comply with any provision of the concession agreements, including those relating to compliance with the established standards of quality. Depending on the severity of the non-compliance, these penalties could include: • fines for breach of contract of up to 2.0% of the concession holder’s revenues in the last year prior to the date of the breach; • injunctions related to the construction of new facilities and equipment; • restrictions on the operation of existing facilities and equipment; • temporary suspension from participating in bidding processes for new concessions for a period of up to two years; • intervention by ANEEL in the management of the concession holder that it is in breach; and • repeal of the concession. In addition, the federal government has the power to repeal any one of our concessions or authorizations, prior to the end of the concession term, in the case of bankruptcy or dissolution, or through expropriation, for reasons related to the public interest. It can also intervene in concessions for the purpose of ensuring adequacy in provision of services, and faithful compliance with relevant provisions of contracts, regulations or law, and may also interfere in the operations of, and revenues arising from, the operations of the facilities of the Company and its subsidiaries. Delays in the implementation and construction of new electricity undertakings can trigger the imposition of regulatory penalties by ANEEL, which, under ANEEL’s Resolution No. 63 of May 12, 2004, can vary from warnings to the termination of concessions or authorizations. ANEEL may impose penalties or even repeal our concessions or authorizations in the event of a breach of a concession contract or authorization. Any compensation we may receive upon rescission of the concession contract and/or withdrawal of an authorization may not be sufficient to compensate us for the full value of certain investments. If any concession contract is rescinded due to fault of ours, the effective amount of compensation could be smaller, due to fines or other penalties. Rescission of our concession contracts, or imposition of penalties, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. ANEEL has discretion to establish the rates that distribution companies charge their consumers. These rates are determined by ANEEL in such a way as to preserve the economic and financial balance of concession contracts entered into with ANEEL. 12 Table of Contents Concession agreements and Brazilian law establish a mechanism that permits three types of rate adjustment: (1) the Annual Adjustment; (2) the Periodic Review; and (3) the Extraordinary Review. The purpose of the Annual Adjustment (Reajuste Anual) is to compensate for changes in costs that are beyond the Company’s control, such as the cost of electricity for supply to consumers, the sector charges that are set by the federal government, and charges for use of the transmission and distribution facilities of other companies. Manageable costs, on the other hand, are adjusted by the IGP–M inflation index, less an efficiency factor, known as the X Factor. Every five years there is a Periodic Tariff Review (Revisão Periódica Tarifária, or RTP), the purpose of which is to: identify the variations in costs referred to above; remunerate the assets that the company has built in the period; and establish a factor based on gains of scale, which will be taken into account in the subsequent annual tariff adjustments. An Extraordinary Tariff Review takes place whenever there is any unforeseen development that significantly alters the economic-financial equilibrium of the concession. Thus, although our concession contracts specify that the economic and financial balance of the contract shall be preserved, we cannot guarantee that ANEEL will set tariffs that adequately remunerate us in relation to the investments made or in relation to the operational costs incurred by reason of the concession. Anee has discretion in setting the Permitted Annual Revenue (Receita Annual Permitida or ‘RAP’) of our transmission companies; if any adjustments result in a reduction of the RAP, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The RAP that we receive through our transmission companies is determined by ANEEL, on behalf of the federal government. The concession contracts provide for two mechanisms for adjustment of revenues: (i) the annual tariff adjustments; and (ii) the Periodic Tariff Review (Revisão Tarifária Periódica). The annual tariff adjustment of our transmission revenues takes place annually in June and is effective in July of the same year. The annual tariff adjustments take into account the permitted revenues of the projects that have come into operation, and the revenue from the previous period is adjusted by the IPCA index. The periodic tariff review previously took place every four years, but Law Nº 12,783/2013 changed the tariff review period to five years. Our last tariff review was in July, 2009, and the next is estimated for 2018 considering the Extraordinary Review occurred in 2013 with the edition of Law n. 12,783/13. During the periodic tariff review, the investments made by the concession holder in the period and the operational costs of the concession are analyzed by ANEEL, taking into account only investment that it deems to be prudent, and operational costs that it assesses as having been efficient, using a benchmarking methodology developed by using an efficiency model based on comparison of data among the various transmission companies in Brazil. Therefore, the tariff review mechanism is subject to some extent to the discretionary power of ANEEL, since it may omit to include investments that have been made, and could recognize operational costs as being lower than those actually incurred – which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As mentioned, we extended the concessions of certain of our transmission lines, under Law Nº 12,783/13, which resulted in an adjustment to the RAP of those concessions, lowering the revenue we will receive from those concessions. The Brazilian government has compensated us for a reduction in the RAP of a portion of these concessions, but the assets in operation before 2000 have not yet been compensated. According to Law Nº 12,783/13, we will receive compensation for the reduction in the RAP of the assets in operation before 2000, over a period of 30 years, adjusted by the IPCA inflation index. Delays in the expansion of facilities, in new investments and in capitalizations in our generation, transmission and distribution companies could adversely affect our business results of operations and financial condition. We are currently engaged in the construction of additional hydroelectric and wind power plants, transmission lines, distribution lines and substations, and assessment of other potential expansion projects. Our ability to complete expansion project, new investments and the related capitalizations on schedule and within budget, without adverse economic effects, is subject to a number of risks. For example: • we may experience problems in the phase of planning and construction of an expansion project or a new investment (e.g.: labor stoppages, embargos on works, unforeseen geological and meteorological conditions, political and environmental uncertainties, and liquidity of partners, contractors or subcontractors); • we may face regulatory or legal challenges that delay the initial operation date of expansion projects; • our new facilities may possibly not operate at the planned capacity, or their costs of operation may be greater than planned; • we may possibly not be able to obtain adequate working capital to finance our expansion projects; and • we may encounter environmental issues and claims by the local population during the construction of power plants, distribution lines, transmission lines or substations. 13 Table of Contents If we experience these or other problems relating to new investments or to expansion of our electricity generation, transmission or distribution capacity, we may be exposed to increased costs, or we may fail to achieve the revenues we planned in connection with such projects. Requirements of, and restrictions by, the environmental agencies could result in our Company having additional costs. Our operations related to generation, distribution and transmission of electricity, and distribution of natural gas, are subject to various federal, state and municipal laws and regulations, and also to numerous requirements relating to the protection of health and the environment. Delays by the environmental authorities, or refusal of license requests by them, and/or any inability on our part to meet the requirements set by these bodies during the environmental licensing process, may result in additional costs, or even, depending on the case, prohibit or restrict the construction or maintenance of these projects. Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations, such as building and operation of a potentially polluting facility without a valid environmental license or authorization, can have as consequence, in addition to the obligation to redress any damages that may be caused, result in criminal, civil and/or administrative sanctions being applied. Under Brazilian legislation, criminal penalties, such as imprisonment and restriction of rights, may be applied to individuals (including managers of legal entities), and penalties such as fines, restriction of rights or community service may be applied to legal entities. With respect to administrative sanctions, depending on the circumstances, the environmental authorities may: impose warnings, or fines, ranging from R$50 thousand to R$50 million; require partial or total suspension of activities; suspend or restrict tax benefits; cancel or suspend lines of credit from governmental financial institutions; or prohibit us from contracting with governmental agencies, companies or authorities. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to the Brazilian legislation that requires payment of compensation in the event that our activities have polluting effects. Under Federal Law Nº 6,848/2009 and Minas Gerais State Decree No. 45,175/2009, up to 0.5% of the total amount invested in implementation of a project that causes significant environmental impact must be applied in compensatory measures, in an amount to be determined on a case by case basis by environmental authorities according to specific level of pollution and the environmental impact of the project. State Decree No. 45,175 of 2009 (‘Decree 45,175’) also indicated that the compensation rate will be applied retrospectively to projects implemented prior to promulgation of the present legislation. That State Decree was altered by Decree No. 45,629/2011, which established that, for the reference value of the projects that cause significant environmental impact: (i) for projects executed before the publication of Federal Law Nº 9,985 of July 18, 2000 (‘Federal Law 9,985’), the net book value will be used, excluding revaluations or, in its absence, the value of the investment presented by the representative of the project; and (ii) compensation for environmental projects executed after the publication of Federal Law Nº 9,985 will use the reference established in Item IV of Article 1 of Decree No. 45,175, calculated at the moment of execution of the project and updated based on an inflation-linked adjustment index. Among the provisions of law that can lead to operational investments and expenses, one is compliance with the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, to which Brazil is a signatory, assuming the international commitment to withdraw use of PCB by 2025, and its complete destruction by 2028, through Decree No. 5472, of June 20, 2005. The legislation to be passed for this purpose could have a strong effect on the electricity industry and on Cemig, due to the possibility of obligations to list, replace and dispose of equipment and materials containing substances included in the Convention such as Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs). Finally, the adoption or implementation of new safety, health and environmental laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased rigidity in the application of the environmental laws, or other developments in the future might require us to make additional capital expenditure or incur additional operational expenses in order to maintain our current operations; or to curtail our production activities or take other actions that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is possible that we may not succeed in implementing, in a timely fashion, or without incurring unforeseen costs, the strategies contained in our Long-term Strategic Plan(¹), and this could have adverse consequences for our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. (¹) This contains the long-term strategic planning and the fundamentals, targets, objectives and results to be pursued and achieved by the Company. It is reviewed annually by the Executive Board and approved by the Board of Directors. 14 Table of Contents Our capacity to achieve strategic objectives depends, largely, on successful, timely implementation with good cost-benefit ratio, of our Long-term Strategic Plan. The following are some of the factors that could affect this implementation: • Capacity to generate cash flow or obtain future financings necessary for implementation of the projects. • Delays in the delivery of equipment by suppliers. • Delays resulting from failures of suppliers or third parties in compliance with their contractual obligations. • Significant alterations in the economic, regulatory, hydrological or other scenarios. Any delays, such as those referred to, or significant increases in our costs, could delay or prevent successful implementation of our Long-term Strategic Plan, which could cause adverse effects on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. It is possible that the Company might face difficulties in maintaining the results expected in the business plan, at the time of acquisition of companies or those recently acquired, which might be adverse for its business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has been acquiring interests in other companies, and has the intention in the future of maintaining a profile of expansion of its businesses. However, there is a possibility that it might not obtain the benefits expected from these acquisitions. The process of integration of any business that is acquired might subject the Company to certain risks, such as: unexpected expenses, our not being able to integrate the activities of the companies acquired, aiming for economies of scale and the expected efficiency gains, potential delays related to the integration of the operations of the companies, exposure to unexpected potential contingencies, and legal claims made against a business acquired, before we acquired it. The Company might not be successful in dealing with these and other risks or problems related with the most recent transactions or with any other operation of a future acquisition. The Company’s inability to integrate its operation successfully, or any significant delay in achieving such integration, could adversely affect it. There are restrictions on our capacity for re-investment and indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to certain restrictions on our capacity for re-investment and raising of funds from third parties, which might prevent us from entering into new contracts for financing of our operations, or for re-financing of our existing obligations, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In relation to reinvestment, our by-laws state that we may use up to 40.0% of our annual Ebitda (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization), each fiscal year, on capital investments and acquisitions. Our ability to carry out our capital expenditure program is dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to charge adequate rates for our services, access to the domestic and international capital markets, and a variety of operational and other factors. In addition, our plans to expand our generation and transmission capacity are subject to the competitive bidding process governed by the Concessions Law (Law 8,666/1993). In relation to loans from outside parties we note three points: (i) As a state-controlled company, we are subject to rules and limits on the level of credit that may be contracted by the public sector, set by the National Monetary Council (Conselho Monetário Nacional, or CMN) and by the Brazilian Central Bank – BACEN, and also for operating on electricity sector which are also subject to rules and limits established by ANEEL, which provides for indebtedness of electricity sector companies. Those bodies set certain parameters and indicator for financial institutions to be able to offer credit to companies of the public sector or the electricity industry. State-controlled companies, for example, may use the proceeds of external transactions with commercial banks (debt, including bonds) only for the purpose of refinancing financial obligations, or in transactions guaranteed by duplicates of trade bills. Another rule that exists is the need for approval by the Finance Ministry and the BACEN before carrying out certain international financial transactions, this approval usually being given only if the purpose of the transaction is to finance importation of goods or rollover our external debt. As a result of these rules, (i) our capacity to incur debt is limited. (ii) recording of loans with covenants could restrain our operational flexibility. Today we record financing contracts with this profile with the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES). In the event of non-compliance by ourselves with an obligation contained in any of these financing contracts, we are required to strengthen the guarantees of the financing, on penalty of early maturity of the contract. In the past, there have been occasions when we have been non-compliant with financial covenants, which had conditions that were more restrictive than the present ones – these related to lending transactions that have been settled. Although we have been able to obtain waivers from our creditors in relation to such non-compliances, no guarantee can be given that we will be successful in obtaining any particular waiver in the future; (iii) our by-laws express the obligation upon us to keep certain financial indicators, including ratios related to debt and reinvestment, within certain limits, which could affect our operational flexibility. 15 Table of Contents Instability of inflation rates and interest rates could adversely affect our economic results and financial situation. The Company and its subsidiaries are exposed to losses linked to variations in domestic interest rates and inflation rates, due to the existence of assets and liabilities indexed to the variations in the Selic and CDI rates, and the IPCA and IGP-M inflation indices. A significant increase in interest rates or inflation would have an adverse effect on our financial expenses and financial results as a whole. At the same time, a significant reduction in the CDI rate, or in inflation, could negatively affect the revenue generated by our financial investments, and also the positive effect of updating adjustments to the balances of Financial Assets of our Concessions(1). A reduction in our credit risk rating could adversely affect the availability of new financings and increase our cost of capital. The credit risk rating agencies Fitch Ratings, Moody’s, and Standard and Poor’s each attribute a rating to the Company and its debt securities on the Brazilian basis, and also a rating for the Company on the global basis. Ratings reflect, among other factors, the outlook for the Brazilian electricity sector, the hydrological conditions of the country, the political and economic context, country risk, and the rating and outlook for the Company’s controlling stockholder, the State of Minas Gerais. If our ratings are downgraded due to any external factor, operational performance or high levels of debt, a possible scenario would be increase of the cost of capital and/or inclusion of financial covenants in the instruments that regulate our debts. Further, our operational or financial results and/or the availability of future financings could be adversely affected. A situation of shortage of working capital might result in adverse effects for our business, operational results or financial situation. In 2014 Consolidated current liabilities exceeded Consolidated current assets, mainly due to new financings with short-term maturities obtained to finance the Company’s investment program, and because of the greater outflow of cash in the electricity distribution business for payment of purchases of electricity at the higher average prices caused by the higher dispatching of the thermoelectric generation plants. A continuing situation of deficiency of working capital in 2015, which might occur mainly as a result of (i) the need to raise short-term funding to provide for our investment programs, or (ii) higher disbursements to pay for supply of electricity, which could be high if the scarcity of water flows in Brazil persists, could have an adverse effect on our business, operational results and financial situation. It is important to point out that a large proportion of our debt (39.16%) becomes due in 2015; it is primarily in Promissory Note issues. Although we have frequently raised funding in the capital markets, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain funding in a timely manner or on appropriate conditions of cost and maturities for payment. Our processes of governance, risk management and compliance could fail to avoid regulatory penalties, damages to our reputation, or adverse effects on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Our Company is subordinated to various regulatory structures, such as: (i) the laws and regulations of the Brazilian electricity industry, including Law Nº 10,848/2004, regulations of the Brazilian regulator (National Electricity Agency – ANEEL), among others; (ii) the laws and regulations that apply to listed companies with securities traded on the Brazilian capital markets, such as Law Nº 6404/1976, regulations of the Brazilian Securities Commission (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários, or CVM), among others; (iii) the laws and regulations that apply to Brazilian companies which have majority public-sector ownership, such as Law Nº 8666/1993 (‘the Tenders Law’), among others; (iv) and the laws and regulations that apply to companies that have securities traded in the US capital markets, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Law (‘SOX’), the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), among others. Due to the majority interest held by the State Government in our stockholding structure, we are required to contract the greater part of our works, services, advertising, purchases, disposals and rentals, through competitive tenders and administrative contracts, ruled by the Tenders Law and other complementary legislation. Also, we operate in a sector in which there is an intense use of competitive tenders and administrative contracts of high value and with a large number of suppliers and clients, which exposes us to risks of fraud and administrative impropriety that are inherent to these forms of contracting. In recent years Brazil has intensified and improved its legislation and structures relating to defense of competition, combat of improbity and combat of corrupt practices. Law Nº 12,846/2013 made Brazilian companies strictly liable if they commit acts against the Brazilian, or foreign, public administration, including acts relating to processes of competitive tenders and administrative contracts, and laid down heavy penalties for the companies that are punished. Our Company has structures and policies for prevention and combat of fraud and corruption, auditing and internal controls, as well as adopting the recommendations for Best Corporate Governance Practices recommended by the Brazilian Corporate Governance Institute (Instituto Brasileiro de Governança Coorporativa, or IBGC) and the framework of COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission). However, our processes of governance, risk management and compliance might be unable to avoid future violations of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, or violations of our internal control mechanisms, our Declaration of Ethical Principles and Code of Professional Conduct, or the occurrence of fraudulent or dishonest behavior by some of our employees, or individuals or legal entities that are contracted, or other agents that may represent the company in dealings with third parties, especially with the Public Authorities. Non-compliance with laws and regulations, among other rules, might result in fines, losses of licenses, damage to our reputation or significant financial losses. (1) These refer to infrastructure in which investment has been made that will be the subject of indemnity by the Concession-granting power, during the period of the concessions and at their termination, as set out in the regulatory framework of the electricity sector, and in the transmission and distribution concession contract signed with ANEEL by Cemig and its subsidiaries. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to distribute dividends is subject to limitations. Whether or not the investor receives dividends depends on whether our financial situation permits us to distribute dividends under Brazilian law, and whether our shareholders, on the recommendation of our Board of Directors, acting in their discretion, determine suspension, due to our financial situation, of distribution of dividends in excess of the amount of mandatory distribution required under our by-laws in the case of the preferred shares. Because we are a holding company with no revenue-producing operations other than those of our operating subsidiaries, we will be able to distribute dividends to shareholders only if the Company receives dividends or other cash distributions from its operating subsidiaries. The dividends that our subsidiaries may distribute depend on our subsidiaries generating sufficient profit in any given fiscal year. Dividends can be paid out from the profit accrued in each fiscal year or from accumulated profits from previous years, or from profit reserves. Dividends are calculated and paid in accordance with the Brazilian Corporate Law and the provisions of the by-laws of each of our regulated subsidiaries. Under our by-laws, we must pay our shareholders a mandatory annual dividend equal to at least 50% of our net profit for the preceding fiscal year, based on our financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, and also in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil, and holders of preferred shares have priority of payment. Our by-laws also require that the mandatory annual dividend we pay to holders of our preferred shares must be equal to at least the greater of (a) 10% of the par value of our shares, or (b) 3% of the value of the portion of stockholders’ equity represented by our shares, in the event that such amount is greater than 50% of our net profit. If in a given fiscal year we do not have net profit, or our net profit is insufficient, our management may recommend at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting in respect of that year that the payment of the mandatory dividend should not be made. However, there is also a guarantee given by the government of Minas Gerais State, our controlling shareholder, that a minimum annual dividend of 6% will in any event be payable to all holders of common shares and preferred shares issued up to August 5, 2004 (other than public and governmental holders) in the event that mandatory distributions have not been made in a given fiscal year. The level of default by our consumers could adversely affect our business, operational results and/or financial situation as well as our subsidiaries. On December 31, 2014, the total of our past due receivables owed by final consumers, leaving out of account the allowance for doubtful receivables, was approximately R$2.688 billion, corresponding to 13.76% of our consolidated net revenue in 2014, and our provision for doubtful receivables was R$650 million. The possibility exists that we might be unable to collect amounts payable by various consumers in arrears. If such debts are not totally or partially settled, we will suffer an adverse impact on our business, operation results and/or financial situation. Additionally, the amount of debts in arrears from our consumers that exceeds the provision that we have constituted could cause an adverse effect on our business, operational results and/or financial condition. We are strictly liable for any damages resulting from inadequate rendering of electricity services. Under Brazilian law, we are strictly liable for direct and indirect damages resulting from the inadequate rendering of electricity transmission and distribution services. In addition, when damages are caused to final consumers as a result of outages or disturbances in the generation, transmission and distribution system, whenever these outages or disturbances are not attributed to an identifiable member of the National System Operator (Operador Nacional do Sistema, or ONS) or to the ONS itself, the liability for such damages is shared among generation, distribution and transmission companies. Until a party with final responsibility has been identified, the liability for such damages will be shared in the proportion of 35.7% to the distribution agents, 28.6% to the transmission agents and 35.7% to the generation agents. These proportions are established by the number of votes that each of these types of electricity concession holder receives in the general meetings of the ONS, and as such, they are subject to change in the future. Thus our business, operational results and/or financial situation might be adversely affected as a result of any such damages. We may incur losses in connection with pending litigation. We are currently defending several legal and administrative proceedings relating to civil, administrative, environmental, tax, labor and other claims. These claims involve a wide range of issues and seek indemnities and reparation in money and by specific performance. Several individual disputes account for a significant part of the total amount of claims against the Company. The consolidated financial statements include contingency provisions in the total amount of R$ 755 million, as of December 31, 2014, for actions in which the chances of loss have been assessed as ‘probable’ (i.e. more likely than not). In the event that our provisions for legal actions are insufficient, payments for actions in excess of the amounts provisioned could adversely affect our operational results and financial situation. 17 Table of Contents We operate without insurance policies against natural disasters and third party liability. Other than in connection with flying, we do not have third party liability insurance covering accidents, and we have not sought proposals for this type of insurance. It is the Company’s view that the risk of occurrence of an event leading to a claim on third party liability insurance is small. Specific studies have been made on the subject, which prove the extremely low probability of events of this nature. Hence Cemig has not sought a proposal for, and has not contracted, insurance cover against natural disasters, such as earthquakes or floods, that might affect our facilities. The insurance contracted by the Company may be insufficient to pay compensation for possible damages. The Company maintains insurance only for fire, risks involving our aircraft, and operational risks, such as damage to equipment, as well as those types of insurance cover that are required by law, such as transport insurance of goods belonging to legal entities. We cannot guarantee that insurances contracted are sufficient to cover in full any liabilities that may arise in fact in the course of our business nor that these insurance policies will continue to be available in the future. The occurrence of claims in excess of the amount insured, or which are not covered by the insurance policies contracted, might generate significant and unexpected additional costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operational results and/or financial situation. Risks Relating to Brazil Political instabilities in Brazil could have effects in the economy and affect us. There is an expectation that 2015 will be a year of low economic growth in Brazil and also of unpopular measures, aiming to make macroeconomic adjustments for resumption of Brazil’s growth. When the economic context is bad, the population tends to be less in favor of the government. In 2015, the government’s low level of popularity could result in political instability in Brazil, which could in turn result in a further reduction of the credibility of the country’s public institutions. Further, the country is suffering from the public consequences of irregularities that are being investigated in important Brazilian companies, which could result in a significant deterioration in the markets. Moreover, uncertainty with regard to ongoing investigations into allegations of corruption in state–controlled enterprises and certain other Brazilian companies may also affect the confidence of investors and the general public. Political instabilities and loss of confidence of investors may have an adverse impact on the Brazilian economy and the Brazilian capital market, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of Brazilian publicly traded companies’ securities, including our preferred and common shares and ADSs, as well as the access of Brazilian companies to international capital markets. In addition, any political instability resulting from such events, may result in our having to re-evaluate our strategy. The federal government exercises significant influence on the Brazilian economy. Political and economic conditions can have a direct impact on our business. The federal government frequently intervenes in the country’s economy and occasionally makes significant changes in monetary, fiscal and regulatory policy. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in government policies, and also by: • fluctuations in the exchange rate; • inflation; • instability of prices; • changes in interest rates; • fiscal policy; • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments which may affect Brazil or the international markets; • control on capital flows; and/or • limits on foreign trade. Measures by the Brazilian government to maintain economic stability, and also speculation on any future acts of the Brazilian government, might generate uncertainties in the Brazilian economy, and increase the volatility of the domestic capital market, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the political and economic situations deteriorate, we may face increased costs. 18 Table of Contents Taking into account the Brazilian presidential system of government, and the considerable influence of the executive power, it is not possible to predict whether the present government or any successor governments will have an adverse effect on the Brazilian economy, and consequently on our business. Risks relating to the preferred and common shares, and the preferred and common ADSs Inflation and certain governmental measures to curb inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and could harm our business and the market value of our shares, the preferred ADSs and the common ADSs. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation. Inflation, and some of the federal government’s measures taken in an attempt to curb inflation, have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Since the introduction of the real in 1994, Brazil’s inflation rate has been substantially lower than in previous periods. As measured by the IPCA index, Brazilian annual inflation rates in 2012, 2013 and 2014 were 5.84%, 5.91% and 6.41%, respectively. No assurance can be given that inflation will remain at these levels. Future measures taken by the federal government, including increases in interest rates, intervention in the foreign exchange market or actions intended to adjust the value of the real, might cause increases in inflation, and consequently, have adverse economic impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If Brazil experiences high inflation in the future, we might be unable to adjust the rates we charge our consumers to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structure. Substantially all of our cash operating expenses are denominated in reais and tend to increase with Brazilian inflation. Inflationary pressures might also hinder our ability to access foreign financial markets or might lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition or adversely affect the market value of our shares and as a result, of our preferred ADSs and common ADSs. Instability of the exchange rate could adversely affect the value of remittances of dividends outside Brazil, and also the market price of the ADSs. Many Brazilian and global macroeconomic factors have influence on the exchange rate. In this context, the Brazilian government, through the Brazilian Central Bank, has in the past occasionally intervened for the purpose of controlling unstable variations in exchange rates. We cannot predict whether the Central Bank or the federal government will continue to allow the real to float freely or whether it will intervene through a system involving an exchange rate band, or the use of other resources. This being so, the real might fluctuate substantially in relation to the United States dollar, and other currencies, in the future. That instability could adversely affect the equivalent in US dollars of the market price of our shares, and as a result the prices of our ADSs, common and preferred, and also remittances of dividends outward from Brazil. For more information see the section ‘Exchange rates’ – in Part I, Item 3 – Selected Consolidated Financial Information. Changes in economic and market conditions in other countries, especially Latin American and emerging market countries, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the market price of our shares, preferred ADS and common ADSs. The market value of the securities of Brazilian companies is affected to varying degrees by economic and market conditions in other countries, including other Latin American countries and emerging market countries. Although the economic conditions of such countries may differ significantly from the economic conditions of Brazil, the reactions of investors to events in those countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises in other emerging market countries might reduce investors’ interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including our Company. In the future, this could make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations on acceptable terms or at all. Due to the characteristics of the Brazilian power industry (which requires significant investments in operating assets) and due to our financing needs, if access to the capital and credit markets is limited, we could face difficulties in completing our investment plan and refinancing our obligations, and this could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents The relative volatility and illiquidity of Brazilian securities market may adversely affect our shareholders. Investing in securities of Latin America, such as the preferred shares, common shares, preferred ADSs or common ADSs, involves a higher degree of risk than investing in securities of issuers from countries with more stable political and economic environments and such investments are generally considered speculative in nature. These investments are subject to certain economic and political risks, including, as examples, the following: • changes to the regulatory, tax, economic and political environment that may affect the ability of investors to receive payment, in whole or in part, related to their investments; and • restrictions on foreign investment and on repatriation of capital invested. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. This might substantially limit an investor’s ability to sell the shares underlying his preferred or common ADSs for the desired price and within the desired period. The São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBovespa S.A. — Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias e Futuros, or BM&FBovespa), the only stock exchange in Brazil on which shares are traded, had annual market capitalization of approximately R$1.81 trillion, and average daily trading volume of approximately R$7.29 billion in the year ended in December 31, 2014. Holders of the preferred and common ADSs, and holders of our shares, may have different shareholders’ rights than holders of shares in U.S. companies. Our corporate governance, disclosure requirements and accounting practices are governed by our by-laws, by the Level 1 Differentiated Corporate Governance Practices Regulations (Regulamento de Práticas Diferenciadas de Governança Corporativa Nível 1) of the BM&FBovespa, by the Brazilian Corporate Law and by the rules issued by the CVM. These regulations may differ from the legal principles that would apply if our Company were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Brazil. In addition, the rights of an ADS holder, which are derived from the rights of holders of our common or preferred shares, as the case may be, to have his interests protected in relation to decisions by our board of directors or our controlling shareholder, may be different under the Brazilian Corporate Law than under the rules of other jurisdictions. Rules against insider trading and self-dealing and other rules for the preservation of shareholder interests may also be different in Brazil than in the United States, potentially establishing a disadvantage for holders of the preferred shares, common shares, or preferred or common ADSs. Exchange controls and restrictions on remittances from Brazil might adversely affect holders of preferred and common ADSs. The investor may be adversely affected by the imposition of restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil and the conversion from reais (R$) into foreign currencies. Restrictions of this type would hinder or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of preferred shares or common shares from reais (R$) into U.S. dollars (US$). We cannot guarantee that the federal government will not take restrictive measures in the future. Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to sale of our shares, preferred ADSs or common ADSs. Law Nº 10,833 of December 29, 2003 provides that the sale of assets located in Brazil is subject to taxation in Brazil, regardless of whether the sale occurs inside or outside Brazil. This rule is valid whether the vendor is a Brazilian resident or a person not resident in Brazil, and also when both are resident outside Brazil. There is no clear instruction as to the application of Law Nº 10,833/03. Accordingly, we are unable to predict whether Brazilian courts will decide whether it applies to sales of our preferred ADSs and common ADSs between non-residents of Brazil. However, in the event that the concept of sale of assets is interpreted to include a sale of our preferred ADSs and common ADSs, application of this tax law would result in the imposition of withholding taxes on sales of our preferred ADSs and common ADSs by a non-resident to either a resident or a non-resident of Brazil. Foreign shareholders may be unable to enforce judgments against our directors or officers. All of our directors and officers reside in Brazil. Substantially, our assets, as well as the assets of these persons, are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for foreign shareholders to effect service of process on them within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil, or to attach their assets, or to enforce against them, or against our Company in United States courts, or in the courts of other jurisdictions outside Brazil, judgments that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or the respective laws of such other jurisdictions. 20 Table of Contents For a judgment given outside Brazil to be executed in Brazil, there is a need for it to be homologated by the Brazilian Federal Supreme Court, in accordance with the internal regulations of that Court, obeying the requirements of Articles 15 and 17 of the Law of Introduction to the rules of Brazilian Law. Exchanging of preferred ADSs or common ADSs for underlying shares may have adverse consequences. The Brazilian custodian for the preferred shares and common shares must obtain an electronic certificate of foreign capital registration from the Brazilian Central Bank to remit U.S. dollars from Brazil to other countries for payments of dividends, or any other cash distributions, or to remit the proceeds of a sale of shares. If the investor decides to exchange his preferred ADSs or common ADSs for the underlying shares, the investor will be able to continue to rely, for five business days from the date of the exchange, on the depositary bank’s electronic certificate of registration in order to receive any proceeds distributed in connection with the shares. Thereafter, the investor may perhaps not be able to obtain and remit U.S. dollars abroad upon sale of the shares, or distributions of proceeds relating to the shares, unless the investor obtains his own certificate of registration under CMN Resolution No. 2,689 of January 26, 2000, which entitles foreign investors to buy and sell on the Brazilian stock exchanges. If the investor does not obtain this certificate, he will be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the preferred or common shares. If the investor attempts to obtain his own certificate of registry, he may incur expenses or suffer significant delays in the application process. Obtaining a certificate of registry involves generating significant documentation, including completing and filing various electronic forms with the Brazilian Central Bank and the Brazilian Securities Commission (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários, or CVM). In order to complete this process, the investor will usually need to engage a consultant or attorney who has expertise in Central Bank and CVM regulations. Any delay in obtaining this certificate could adversely impact the investor’s ability to receive dividends or distributions paid by the preferred shares or common shares outside Brazil, or to receive timely repatriation of the investor’s capital. If the investor decides to exchange his preferred or common shares back into preferred ADSs or common ADSs, respectively, once he has registered his investment in preferred shares or common shares, he may deposit his preferred or common shares with the custodian and rely on the depositary bank’s certificate of registration, subject to certain conditions. We cannot guarantee that the depositary bank’s certificate of registry or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by an investor may not be affected by future legislative or other regulatory changes, nor that additional Brazilian restrictions applicable to the investor, or to sale of the underlying preferred shares, or to repatriation of the proceeds from the sale, will not be imposed in the future. Sales of a substantial number of shares, or the perception that such sales might take place, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our shares, or of the preferred or common ADSs. As a consequence of the issuance of new shares, sales of shares by existing shareholders, or the perception that such a sale might occur, the market price of our shares and, by extension, of the preferred and/or common ADSs, may decrease significantly. The preferred shares and preferred ADSs generally do not have voting rights, and the common ADSs can only be voted by proxy by providing voting instructions to the depositary. Under the Brazilian Corporate Law and our by-laws, holders of our preferred shares, and, consequently, holders of our ADSs representing preferred shares, are not entitled to vote at our shareholders’ meetings, except in very specific circumstances. Holders of our preferred ADSs may also encounter difficulties in the exercise of certain rights, including the limited voting rights. Holders of the ADSs for our common shares do not have automatic entitlement to vote in our General Meetings of Stockholders, other than by power of attorney, by sending a voting instruction to the depository. Where there is not enough time to send the form with voting instructions to the depository, or in the event of omission to send the voting instruction, the holders of ADSs for Cemig’s preferred and common shares may be unable to vote by means of instructions to the depository. 