Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report. The following risks relate principally to our business and our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, which could also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant percentage of our sales, and any loss, cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by these customers could harm our business. A limited number of customers have, historically, consistently accounted for a significant portion of our sales. For example, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, sales to three customers, Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco and Huawei, in aggregate accounted for 44.7% of our total revenues, and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, Cisco and NSN in aggregate accounted for 45% of our total revenues. Sales from any of our major customers may decline or fluctuate significantly in the future. We may not be able to offset any decline in sales from our existing major customers with sales from new customers or other existing customers. Because of our reliance on a limited number of customers, any decrease in sales from, or loss of, one or more of these customers without a corresponding increase in sales from other customers would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any negative developments in the business of existing significant customers could result in significantly decreased sales to these customers, which could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, the markets in which we sell our optical components products are dominated by a relatively small number of systems manufacturers, thereby limiting the number of our potential customers. Accordingly, our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers, and we expect that the majority of our sales will continue to depend on sales of our products to a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. We do not have long-term volume purchase contracts with our customers, and, as a result, our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay their buying levels at any time with minimal advance notice to us, which may significantly harm our business. Our customers typically purchase our products pursuant to individual purchase orders. While our customers generally provide us with their demand forecasts, in most cases they are not contractually committed to buy any quantity of products. Our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place. If any of our major customers were to decrease, stop or delay purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Cancellation or delays of orders may cause us to fail to achieve our short-term and long-term financial and operating goals. In the past, during periods of severe market 12 Table of Contents downturns, certain of our largest customers cancelled significant orders with us and our competitors, which resulted in losses of sales and excess and obsolete inventory and led to inventory and asset disposals throughout the industry. More recently, as the global economic recession that began in late 2007 deepened, particularly affecting the credit markets as well as equity markets, certain of our largest customers cancelled significant, previously committed purchase orders resulting in the loss of sales and excess and obsolete inventory for us and increasing the difficulties associated with accurately forecasting future sales. Similar or continued decreases, deferrals or cancellations of purchases by our customers may significantly harm our industry and specifically our business in these and in additional unforeseen ways, particularly if such decreases, deferrals or cancellations are not anticipated. In addition, as a consequence of natural disasters such as the March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan or other unforeseen events, our OEM customers may not be able to obtain sufficient supply of materials and components required for the production of their products, which could reduce sales of these products to end-users. If our OEM customers are unable to obtain adequate supplies of components needed for the manufacture of their products that incorporate our products, or if their operations are otherwise disrupted by any natural disaster, we may experience delays or cancellation of orders from our OEM customers. Furthermore, concerns about shortages could lead some of our customers to forecast or place orders in excess of actual demand in order to ensure supply of products, and these types of ordering patterns could result in the buildup of excess inventory or excess manufacturing capacity. There is a limited number of potential suppliers for certain components used in our products. In addition, we depend on a limited number of suppliers whose components have been qualified into our products and who could disrupt our business if they stop, decrease or delay shipments or if the components they ship have quality or consistency issues. We may also face component shortages if we experience increased demand for modules and components beyond what our qualified suppliers can deliver. Our customers generally restrict our ability to change the component parts in our modules without their approval, which for less critical components may require as little as a specification comparison and for more critical components, such as lasers, photodetectors and key integrated circuits, as much as repeating the entire qualification process. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of key components we have qualified to use in the manufacture of certain of our products. Some of these components are available only from a sole source or have been qualified only from a single supplier. We typically have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers and, therefore, our suppliers could stop supplying materials and equipment at any time or fail to supply adequate quantities of component parts on a timely basis. It is difficult, costly, time consuming and, on short notice, sometimes impossible for us to identify and qualify new component suppliers. The reliance on a sole supplier, single qualified vendor or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery or quality problems or reduced control over product pricing, reliability and performance. In the past, we have had to change suppliers, which has, in some instances, resulted in delays in product development and manufacturing until another supplier was found and qualified. Any such delays in the future may limit our ability to respond to changes in customer and market demands. During the last several years, the number of suppliers of components has decreased significantly and, more recently, demand for components has increased rapidly. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of components we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. For example, during the calendar year ended December 31, 2010, we experienced significant limitations on the availability of components from certain of our suppliers, resulting in losses of anticipated sales and the related revenues. In addition, following the March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, we experienced some supply chain disruption, resulting in some loss of revenue for us. Any negative impact on our suppliers from earthquakes or other natural disasters, including disruption in the production of component parts for our products or the ability of our suppliers to transport these components, may affect the availability of components used in our products, adversely affecting our ability to fulfill orders and, thus, our business and results of operations. We are dependent on contract manufacturers used by our customers for a significant portion of our sales. Many of our OEM customers, including Cisco and Alcatel-Lucent, use third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture their networking systems. Sales to contract manufacturers used by our customers represented 31.4% and 32.2% of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Certain contract manufacturers purchase our products directly from us on behalf of networking OEMs. Although we work with our OEM customers in the design and development phases of their systems, these OEM customers are gradually giving contract manufacturers more authority in product purchasing decisions. As a result, we depend on a concentrated group of contract manufacturers for a significant portion of our sales. If we cannot compete effectively for the business of these contract manufacturers or if any of the contract manufacturers that work with our OEM customers experience financial or other difficulties in their businesses, our sales and our business could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Uncertainty in customers’ forecasts of their demands and other factors may lead to delays and disruptions in manufacturing, which could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our business. Fluctuations and changes in our customers’ demand are common in our industry. Such fluctuations, as well as quality control problems experienced in our manufacturing operations or those of our third-party contract manufacturers or vendors, may cause us to experience delays and disruptions in our manufacturing process and overall operations and reduce our output. As a result, product shipments could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers or could be cancelled, which would negatively affect our sales, operating income, strategic position with customers, market share and reputation. In addition, disruptions, delays or cancellations could cause inefficient production that in turn could result in higher manufacturing costs, lower yields and potential excess and obsolete inventory or manufacturing equipment. In the past, we have experienced such disruptions, delays and cancellations. We participate in vendor managed inventory programs for the benefit of certain of our customers, which could result in increased inventory levels and/or decreased visibility into the timing of sales. Certain of our more significant customers have implemented a supply chain management tool called vendor managed inventory (“VMI”) that requires suppliers, such as Opnext, to assume responsibility for maintaining an agreed upon level of consigned inventory at the customer’s location or at a third-party logistics provider, based on the customer’s demand forecast. Notwithstanding the fact that the supplier builds and ships the inventory, the customer does not purchase the consigned inventory until the inventory is drawn or pulled from the customer or third-party location to be used in the manufacture of the customer’s product. Though the consigned inventory may be at the customer’s or third-party logistics provider’s physical location, it remains inventory owned by the supplier until the inventory is drawn or pulled, which is the time at which the sale takes place. Our participation in VMI programs has resulted in our experiencing higher levels of inventory than we might otherwise and has decreased our visibility into the timing of when our finished goods will ultimately result in revenue-generating sales. Certain VMI programs, particularly any involving products considered to be standard products, may require us to commit to delivering certain quantities of our products to our customers as consigned inventory without the customers having committed to purchase any such products. Such VMI programs increase the likelihood that estimates of our customers’ requirements that prove to be greater than our customers’ actual purchases could result in surplus inventory and we could be required to record charges for obsolete or excess inventories. Some of our products and supplies have in the past become obsolete while in inventory because rapidly changing customer specifications or a decrease in customer demand. If we or our customers with which we participate in VMI programs fail to accurately predict the demand for our products, we could incur additional excess and obsolete inventory write-downs. If we are unable to effectively manage the implementation of, and proper inventory management planning associated with, our customers’ VMI programs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If our customers do not qualify our products or if their customers do not qualify their products, our results of operations may suffer. Most of our customers do not purchase our products prior to qualification of our products and satisfactory completion of factory audits and vendor evaluation. Our existing products, as well as each new product, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. In addition, because of the rapid technological changes in our market, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacture of the product and receive revenues from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized custom design projects absent a research and development agreement that provided for the payment of such expenses. It is difficult to predict with any certainty whether our customers will delay or terminate product qualification or the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, but any such delay, termination, cancellation or modification could have a negative effect on our results of operations. If network service providers that purchase systems from our customers fail to qualify or delay qualifications of any products sold by our customers that contain our products, our business could be harmed. The qualification and field testing of our customers’ systems by network service providers is long and unpredictable. This process is not under our or our customers’ control, and, as a result, timing of our sales is unpredictable. Any unanticipated delay in qualification of one of our customers’ network systems could result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers for products included in the applicable network system, which could harm our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our products are complex and may take longer to develop and qualify than anticipated and we may not recognize sales from new products until after long customer qualification periods. We are constantly developing new products and using new technologies in these products. These products often take substantial time to develop because of their complexity, rigorous testing and qualification requirements and because customer and market requirements can change during the product development or qualification process. Such activity requires significant spending by us. Because of the long development cycle and qualification process, we may not sell any of the new products until long after such expenditures are made. In the telecommunications market, there are stringent and comprehensive reliability and qualification requirements for optical networking systems. In the data communications industry, qualifications can also be stringent and time consuming. However, these requirements are less uniform than those found in the telecommunications industry from application to application and systems vendor to systems vendor. At the component level, such as for new lasers, the development cycle may be lengthy and may not result in a product that can be utilized cost-effectively in our modules or that meets customer and market requirements. Additionally, we often incur substantial costs associated with the research and development and sales and marketing activities in connection with products that may be purchased long after we have incurred the costs associated with designing, creating and selling such products. We rely substantially upon a limited number of contract manufacturers and, if these contract manufacturers fail to meet our short and long-term needs and contractual obligations, our business may be negatively impacted. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to assemble, manufacture and test the majority of our finished goods. The qualification and set-up of these independent manufacturers under quality assurance standards is an expensive and time-consuming process. Certain of our independent manufacturers have a limited history of manufacturing optical modules or components. In the past, we have experienced delays or other problems, such as inferior quality, insufficient quantity of product and an inability to meet cost targets, which have led to delays in our ability to fulfill customer orders. Additionally, in the past we have been required to qualify new contract manufacturers and replace contract manufacturers, which has led to delays in deliveries. Any future interruption in the operations of these manufacturers, or any deficiency in the quality, quantity or timely delivery of the components or products built for us by these manufacturers, could impede our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to our customers or require us to contract with and qualify new contract manufacturers. As a result, we may lose existing or potential customers or orders and our business may be negatively impacted. Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter as the result of a number of factors, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly sales and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as market analysts and investors respond to these quarterly fluctuations. These fluctuations are attributable to numerous factors, including: • fluctuations in demand for our products; • the timing, size and product mix of sales of our products; • the timing and size of revenues derived from research and development agreements; • our ability to source component parts and to manufacture and deliver products to our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner; • quality control problems in our and our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing operations; • fluctuations in our manufacturing yields; • length and variability of the sales cycles of our products; 15 Table of Contents • the loss or gain of significant customers; • new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors and ourselves and the level of market acceptance thereof; • changes in our pricing and sales policies or the pricing and sales policies of our competitors; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; • the evolving and unpredictable nature of the markets for products incorporating our optical components and subsystems; • the occurrence and effects of natural disasters, including in Japan which has a high level of seismic activity; • unanticipated increases in costs and expenses; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These events are difficult to forecast and these events, as well as other events, could materially adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature because of the extent of our internal manufacturing operations and the level of resources dedicated to our research and development, sales and general administrative efforts. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a sales shortfall could magnify the adverse impact of such sales shortfall on our results of operations. Because many of the factors referenced above are beyond our control, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a reliable indication of our future performance, and you should not rely on our results for any single quarter as an indication of our future performance. Moreover, our operating results may not meet our announced guidance or expectations of equity research analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Our future operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risks. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our revenues and our costs and expenses and significantly affect our operating results. Because certain sales transactions and the related assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Japanese yen, our revenues are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 15.5%, 9.4% and 16.7%, respectively, of our revenues were denominated in Japanese yen. To the extent we continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our revenues will continue to be affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, a substantial portion of our cost of sales and the related assets and liabilities are denominated in Japanese yen and portions of our operating expenses are denominated in Japanese yen and euros. For example, during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 44.0%, 37.2% and 60.5%, respectively, of our cost of sales were denominated in Japanese yen. As a result, we bear the risk that fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar could decrease our total revenues or increase our costs and expenses and, therefore, have a negative effect on future operating results. We may experience low manufacturing yields or higher than expected costs. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the stability and manufacturability of the product design, manufacturing improvements gained over cumulative production volumes, the quality and consistency of component parts and the nature and extent of customization requirements by customers. Higher volume demand for more mature designs requiring less customization generally results in higher manufacturing yields than products with lower volumes, less mature designs and requiring extensive customization. Capacity constraints, raw materials shortages, logistics issues, the introduction of new product lines and changes in our customer requirements, manufacturing facilities or processes or those of our third-party contract manufacturers and component suppliers have historically caused, and may in the future cause, significantly reduced manufacturing yields, negatively impacting the gross margins on, and our production capacity for, those products. Our ability to maintain sufficient manufacturing yields is particularly important with respect to certain products we manufacture, such as lasers and photodetectors as a result of the long manufacturing process. Moreover, an increase in the rejection and rework rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture would result in lower yields, gross margins and production capacity. Finally, manufacturing yields and 16 Table of Contents margins can also be lower if we receive and inadvertently use defective or contaminated materials from our suppliers. Because a significant portion of our manufacturing costs is relatively fixed, manufacturing yields may have a significant effect on our results of operations. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could delay product shipments increase our costs or decrease our sales and related revenues. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in gross margin. Our gross profit margins vary among our product families and are generally higher on our 100Gbps, 40Gbps and longer distance 10Gbps products. Our optical products sold for longer-distance applications typically have higher gross margins than our products for shorter-distance applications. Therefore, our overall gross profit margins can be significantly impacted by the relative levels of longer-distance and shorter-distance products sold in any particular period. Recently, we experienced five consecutive quarterly declines in sales of our 40Gbps subsystems products through the quarter ended June 30, 2010. Although sales of these products increased in the quarter ended March 31, 2011 relative to the previous quarter, reoccurrence of an unfavorable sales trend in these products or other 40Gbs and above products could negatively affect future gross margins, given that our gross margins are generally higher on these products. In addition, our gross margins are generally lower for newly introduced products and improve as unit volumes increase. Our overall operating income has fluctuated from period to period as a result of shifts in product mix, the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices, our ability to reduce product costs, and recognition of revenues derived from research and development agreements, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in the future. In recent periods, certain of our products that operate at 10Gbps data rates and below have generated reduced gross margins, which reduced margins we believe are attributable to, among other factors, the increased average age of such products, delays in the development of certain internal subcomponents, our low level of vertical integration, as well as intensified competition in these product groups. To the extent that we are unable to introduce, or experience delays in introducing, the next generation of these products, or to the extent we are unsuccessful in achieving a desirable level of vertical integration with respect to the subcomponents of these products, we may continue to experience diminished gross margins in connection with the sales of certain 10Gbps products. Certain of our revenues are derived from research and development agreements, which can result in material increases or decreases in our gross margin and net earnings from quarter to quarter due to the recognition or deferral of revenue related to these agreements in a particular quarter. We periodically enter into research and development agreements primarily to design, develop and manufacture complex 40Gbps and 100Gbps products according to the specifications of the customer. Revenues from such agreements are generally recognized upon the completion of certain milestones specified in such agreements. Such revenue may have limited or no corresponding cost of revenue, and therefore revenue from these agreements can have a substantial effect on our gross margin and net earnings during the period in which such revenue and the associated cost of sales is recognized. Our products may contain defects that may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts, result in a loss of customers or possibly result in product liability claims. Our products are complex and undergo quality testing as well as formal qualification by both our customers and us. However, defects may be found from time to time. Our customers’ testing procedures are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios and over varying amounts of time. For various reasons (including, among others, the occurrence of performance problems that are unforeseeable in testing or that are detected only when products age or are operated under peak stress conditions), our products may fail to perform as expected long after customer acceptance. Failures could result from faulty components or design, problems in manufacturing or other unforeseen reasons. As a result, we could incur significant costs to repair and/or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. In addition, certain of our customer contracts require that, in addition to correcting the failure with the product, we reimburse the customer for the costs and expenses incurred by the customer in connection with an “epidemic failure” of our product. An epidemic failure with respect to a particular product generally occurs when in excess of a specified percentage of such installed product exhibits a failure of the same root cause within a certain specified time period. We have experienced such failures in the past and will continue to face this risk going forward, as our products are widely deployed throughout the world in multiple demanding environments and applications. In addition, we may in certain circumstances honor warranty claims after the warranty has expired or for problems not covered by warranty in order to maintain customer 17 Table of Contents relationships. We have in the past increased our warranty reserves and have incurred significant expenses relating to certain communications products. Any significant product failure could result in lost future sales of the affected product or other products, as well as severe customer relations problems, litigation or damage to our reputation. In addition, our products are typically embedded in, or deployed in conjunction with, our customers’ products which incorporate a variety of components and our products may be expected to interoperate with products produced by third parties. As a result, not all defects are immediately detectable and, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects. Any defects could, moreover, impair the market’s acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, we incurred a $1.0 million warranty charge to cover anticipated future costs associated with replacing defective 40Gbps Digital Mux/Demux integrated circuits purchased from an external supplier that were included in 40Gpbs transceivers previously sold to our customers. The price of our common stock is highly volatile and may continue to fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for our investors. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in February 2007, and is likely to remain volatile in the future. For example, since the date of our initial public offering, our common stock has closed as low as $1.30 and as high as $18.71 per share. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; • conditions and trends in the markets we serve; • announcements of significant new products by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • legislation or regulatory policies, practices, or actions; • the commencement or outcome of litigation; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future, or sales of our common stock by our principal stockholders; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • the trading volume of our common stock; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; • the occurrence and effects of natural disasters, including in Japan which has a high level of seismic activity; • general economic conditions; and • material weaknesses in internal controls. 18 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We face increasing competition from providers of competing products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and market share. A number of companies have developed or are developing transmit and receive optical modules and components and lasers and infrared LEDs that compete directly with our product offerings. Current and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and manufacturing resources than we possess, and there can be no assurance that our current and future competitors will not be more successful than us in specific product lines or as a whole. Competition has intensified as additional competitors enter the market and current competitors expand their product lines. The industry has experienced an increase in low-cost providers of certain product lines. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are more competitively priced, have better performance, functionality or reliability, or our competitors may have stronger customer relationships, or may be able to react quicker to changing customer requirements and expectations. Increased competitive pressure has in the past and may in the future result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. A reduction in pricing for any existing or future customers may result in reduced pricing for other existing or future customers since our customers’ pricing is generally established pursuant to pricing agreements of not more than one year in duration or upon receipt of purchase orders. Most of the pricing agreements with our customers provide either that prices will be set at invoicing or at various intervals during the year or require us to offer our existing customers the most favorable pricing terms. All of these situations enable our customers to frequently negotiate based upon prevailing market price trends. As product prices decline, our average selling prices and operating profits decline. Because certain of our competitors have longer operating histories, stronger strategic alliances and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, these companies have the ability to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. For example, in the telecommunications and data communications markets, some of our competitors offer broader product portfolios by supplying passive components or a broader range of lower speed transceivers. Other competitors may also have preferential access to certain network systems vendors or offer directly competitive products that may have certain better performance measures than our products. In addition, with respect to certain emerging technologies such as 100Gbps line-side technologies, we also compete with the internal development efforts of network system companies. Our competitors — including network systems companies developing potentially competitive products internally — that have large market capitalizations or cash reserves may be better positioned than we are to acquire other companies to gain new technologies or products that may compete with our product lines. Any of these factors could give our competitors a strategic advantage. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors in the future. The market for optical components continues to be characterized by intense price competition which has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly if we are not able to reduce our expenses commensurately. The market for optical components continues to be characterized by declining average selling prices resulting from factors such as intense price competition among optical component manufacturers, excess capacity, the introduction of new products, and increased unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy network and storage systems. In recent years, we have observed a modest acceleration in the decline of average selling prices. We anticipate that average selling prices will continue to decrease in the future in response to product introductions by our competitors or us, or in response to other factors, including price pressures from significant customers. In order to achieve and sustain profitable operations, we must, therefore, continue to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the current environment of declining average selling prices, and especially when such declines appear to be accelerating, we must continually seek ways to reduce our costs to achieve our desired operating results. Our cost reduction efforts may not allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures. The continued uncertainties in the communications industry and the global economy make it difficult for us to anticipate revenue levels and therefore to make appropriate estimates and plans relating to cost management. To remain 19 Table of Contents competitive, we must continually reduce the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes. We may not be successful in redesigning our products or delivering our products to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that any redesign will result in sufficient cost reductions to enable us to remain price competitive and achieve our desired operating results. If demand for optical systems, particularly for 10Gbps and above network systems, does not continue to expand as expected, our business will suffer. Our future success as a manufacturer of transmit and receive optical modules, components and subsystems ultimately depends on the continued growth of the communications industry and, in particular, the continued expansion of global information networks, particularly those directly or indirectly dependent upon a fiber optics infrastructure. The continued uncertainties in the communications industry and the global economy make it difficult for us to anticipate sales levels. Continued uncertain demand for optical components would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Currently, while increasing demand for network services and for broadband access, in particular, is apparent, growth is limited by several factors, including, among others, the current global economic conditions, an uncertain regulatory environment and reluctance on the part of content providers to supply video and audio content because of insufficient copy protection and uncertainty regarding long-term sustainable business models as multiple industries (cable TV, traditional telecommunications, wireless, satellite, etc.) offer competing content delivery solutions. Ultimately, if long-term expectations for network growth and bandwidth demand are not realized or do not support a sustainable business model, our business would be significantly harmed. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change and, to compete effectively, we must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance or our business may be significantly harmed. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards, all with an underlying pressure to reduce cost and meet stringent reliability and qualification requirements. We expect that new technologies will emerge as competition and the need for higher and more cost-effective bandwidth increases. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. The introduction of new and enhanced products may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for existing products. In addition, a slowdown in demand for existing products ahead of a new product introduction could result in a write-down in the value of inventory on hand related to existing products. We have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products and delays in new product development, and such delays may occur in the future. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for existing products for any reason, our operating results would suffer. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • access to or availability of parts and components needed in new products; • unanticipated engineering complexities; • delays in or denials of membership in future MSAs that become successful, or membership in and product development for MSAs that do not become successful; • difficulties in hiring and retaining necessary technical personnel; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and • changing market or competitive product requirements. We expect that new technologies will continue to emerge as competition in the communications industry increases and the need for higher and more cost efficient bandwidth expands. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products or products in development uncompetitive, obsolete or unmarketable. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot make any assurance that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products 20 Table of Contents successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that our new products, including those incorporating certain emerging technologies such as 100Gbps line-side technologies, in which we have made and continue to make significant investments, will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product introductions by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. We also may not be able to develop or license from third parties the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements and to stay competitive in our markets. Any failure to respond to technological changes could significantly harm our business. We depend on Hitachi for assistance with our research and development efforts. Any failure of Hitachi to provide these services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our product expertise is based on our research ability developed within our Hitachi heritage and through joint research and development in lasers and optical technologies. A key factor to our business success and strategy is fundamental laser research. We rely on access to Hitachi’s research laboratories pursuant to a research and development agreement with Hitachi, which includes access to Hitachi’s research facilities and engineers, to conduct research and development activities that are important to the establishment of new technologies and products vital to our current and future business. Our research and development agreement with Hitachi and Opnext Japan’s research and development agreement with Hitachi will both expire on February 20, 2012. Should access to Hitachi’s research laboratories be unavailable or available at less attractive terms in the future, this may impede development of new technologies and products, and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Adverse conditions in the global economy have negatively impacted our customers, suppliers and our business. The United States, Europe and Asia have experienced significant declines in economic activity, including, among other things, reduced consumer spending, declines in asset valuations, diminished liquidity and credit availability, significant volatility in securities prices, rating downgrades in certain instances, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These economic developments have adversely affected, or have the potential to adversely affect, our customers, suppliers and businesses similar to ours and have resulted or could result in a variety of negative effects, such as reduction in revenues, increased costs, lower gross margin percentages, increased allowances for doubtful accounts and/or write-offs of accounts receivable, and required recognition of impairments of capitalized assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are not able to predict the duration or severity of adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, and there can be no assurance that there will not be further declines in economic activity. We depend on facilities located outside of the United States to manufacture our products, which subjects us to additional risks. In addition to our two manufacturing facilities in Japan, we rely on contract manufacturers located elsewhere in Asia and other countries for our supply of key products and we intend to further expand our use of contract manufacturers outside the United States. Each of these facilities and manufacturers subjects us to additional risks associated with international manufacturing, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • legal uncertainties regarding liabilities, tariffs and other trade barriers; • inadequate protection of intellectual property in some countries; • greater incidence of shipping delays, including, but not limited to, as a result of customs delays; • greater difficulty in overseeing manufacturing operations, including, but not limited to, the levels of inventory maintained at our and our contract manufacturers’ facilities; • greater difficulty in hiring talent needed to oversee manufacturing operations; • the impact of earthquakes or other natural disasters, including in Japan which has a high level of seismic activity; • potential political and economic instability; and 21 Table of Contents • the outbreak of infectious diseases that could result in travel restrictions or the closure of our facilities or the facilities of our contract manufacturers or suppliers. Any of these factors could significantly impair our ability to source our contract manufacturing requirements internationally. Business disruptions resulting from international uncertainties or risks could negatively impact our profitability. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from sales in various international markets. Our international sales and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including, but not limited to: • different technical standards or requirements, such as country or region-specific requirements to eliminate the use of lead; • difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in more than one country; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • fewer legal protections for intellectual property; • fluctuations in foreign economies; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; • domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities or other disruptions in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future; • limitations on travel engendered by the outbreak of diseases and any other widespread public health problems; and • different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. The risks provided above impact our business in areas in which we operate, including Japan and Europe, which constitute a significant portion of our international operations. As an example, the European Union enforced a mandatory requirement through a directive concerning the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS 2002/95/EC), which required us to make changes to our product line on a global basis to comply with the European directive, and may institute similar or additional requirements in the future. Negative developments in one or more countries or regions in which we operate or sell our products could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, difficulties in producing and delivering our products, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, or a higher cost of doing business, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside of our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters such as the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan. Our business and operating results are vulnerable to interruption by events outside of our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, particularly possible earthquakes that may affect our factories or facilities in Japan or California or the facilities of our contract manufacturers or critical vendors. Other possible disruptions include: fire, tsunami, volcanic activity, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, political instability, military conflict and uncertainties arising from terrorist attacks, the economic consequences of military action or terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the effect of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. Any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in the event of an economic downturn triggered by one or more of the foregoing events, we may suffer a decline in revenues and we may not be able to reduce costs fast enough to compensate, particularly since we may be hampered in reducing employee headcount in foreign jurisdictions because of foreign labor regulations. For example, on March 11, 2011 the northeast coast of Japan experienced a severe earthquake followed by a tsunami, with continuing aftershocks from the earthquake. These geological events caused significant damage in the region, including severe damage 22 Table of Contents to Japan’s power and other infrastructure as well as its economy. Our module assembly facility in Totsuka, Japan suffered minor disruption from the earthquake, with production at this facility interrupted for ten days. While our chip production facility in Totsuka also suffered minor damage, production at this facility did not fully resume for approximately five weeks due to the time required to recalibrate and verify the proper operation of the equipment located there. Certain of our suppliers located in Japan were also impacted by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami and, in certain instances, we had to obtain alternative sources of supply or implement other measures. Any negative impact on our suppliers from earthquakes or other natural disasters, including disruption in the production of components used in our products or the ability of our suppliers to transport such components, may affect the availability and price of components used in our products. Other factors stemming from the March 11 events that could impact our suppliers in Japan and our products include disruption of stable power supply, the impact of the damaged nuclear power plant, including radiation contamination, infrastructure issues such as transportation disruption, potential screening for radiation or other contamination, and workforce availability. We were also impacted by power outages in the Totsuka area in March and April 2011 and there is continued uncertainty regarding the availability of electrical power. Thus, there remains a risk that we could in the future experience interruptions to our production or delays or other constraints in obtaining key components and/or price increases related to such components that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The ten-day interruption in our module manufacturing operations in Japan resulted in some loss of revenue in the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and we expect the continuing effects of the earthquake will impact our revenues into our quarter ending September 30, 2011. Although the value of equipment and inventory damaged by the earthquake was minimal, we experienced approximately $1.0 million of idle capacity costs in the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and we expect to continue to experience unutilized capacity costs into our quarter ending September 30, 2011. While the March 11, 2011 earthquake did not directly damage our facilities to any significant extent, Japan in general is subject to earthquakes. Earthquakes and other natural events beyond our control can harm our business, financial condition and results of operation by causing, among other things, production stoppages, the incurrence of significant costs, including, but not limited to, increased cost of component parts, supply chain shortages, or reduced demand for our products due to the impact of our customers or their supply chains. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the future, and failure to do so may harm our business. We believe that our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our cash needs to fund working capital, capital expenditures and our capital lease obligations for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional financing to fund our operations in the future. Due to the unpredictable nature of the capital markets, particularly in the technology sector, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if and when it is required, especially if we experience disappointing operating results. If adequate capital is not available to us as required, or is not available on favorable terms, we could be required to significantly reduce or restructure our business operations. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we fail to obtain the right to use others’ intellectual property rights necessary to operate our business, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected. Numerous patents in our industry are held by others, including our competitors and certain academic institutions. Our competitors may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. For example, on March 27, 2008, Furukawa Electric Co. (“Furukawa”) filed a complaint against Opnext Japan, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary (“Opnext Japan”), alleging that certain laser diode modules sold by Opnext Japan infringe Furukawa’s Japanese Patent No. 2,898,643. The complaint seeks an injunction as well as 300 million yen in royalty damages. While the Tokyo District Court entered judgment in favor of Opnext Japan in February of 2010, the judgment was appealed by Furukawa to the Intellectual Property High Court on March 9, 2010. While we continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this litigation, the defense of this action has required significant expenditures on our part. There can be no assurance that this action or other actions which may in the future be filed against us will not result in a material recovery against, or significant additional expenses to, us. 23 Table of Contents In the future, we may need to obtain license rights to patents or other intellectual property held by others to the extent necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit sales of our existing products and the development of new products for our markets. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Our competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. If we are unable to obtain a license from a third party, or successfully defeat their infringement claim, we could be required to: • cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products, processes or technology; • pay substantial damages for past, present and future use of the infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or • pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to discontinue use or replace infringing technology with non-infringing technology. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We license our intellectual property to Hitachi and its wholly owned subsidiaries without restriction. In addition, Hitachi is free to license certain of Hitachi’s intellectual property that we use in our business to any third party, including our competitors, which could harm our business and operating results. We were initially created as a stand-alone entity by acquiring certain assets of Hitachi through various transactions. In connection with these transactions, we acquired a number of patents and know-how from Hitachi, but also granted Hitachi and its wholly owned subsidiaries a perpetual right to continue to use those patents and know-how, as well as other patents and know-how that we develop during a period ending in July 2011 (and October 2012 in certain cases). This license back to Hitachi is broad and permits Hitachi to use this intellectual property for any products or services anywhere in the world, including to compete with us. Additionally, while significant intellectual property owned by Hitachi was assigned to us when we were formed, Hitachi retained and only licensed to us the intellectual property rights to underlying technologies used in both our products and the products of Hitachi. Under the agreement, Hitachi remains free to license these intellectual property rights to the underlying technologies to any party, including our competitors. The intellectual property that has been retained by Hitachi and that can be licensed in this manner does not relate solely or primarily to one or more of our products, or groups of products; rather, the intellectual property that is licensed to us by Hitachi is generally used broadly across our entire product portfolio. Competition by third parties using the underlying technologies retained by Hitachi could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our business. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and internal procedures, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Although a number of patents have been issued to us and we have obtained a number of other patents as a result of our acquisitions, we cannot assure you that our issued patents will be upheld if challenged by another party. Additionally, with respect to any patent applications that we have filed, we cannot assure you that any patents will issue as a result of these applications. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it. Pursuing infringers of our intellectual property rights can be costly. Pursuing infringers of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to pursue infringers could result in our competitors utilizing our technology and offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased sales. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as 24 Table of Contents do the laws of the United States. Protecting our intellectual property is difficult, especially after our employees or those of our third-party contract manufacturers end their employment or engagement. We may have employees leave us and go to work for competitors. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or prevent others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. For example, on May 27, 2011 Opnext Japan filed a complaint against Furukawa in the Tokyo District Court, alleging that certain laser diode modules sold by Furukawa infringe Opnext Japan’s Japanese patent No. 3,887,174. Opnext Japan is seeking an injunction as well as damages in the amount of 100 million yen. The costs and diversion of resources from this or other litigation that may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights could significantly harm our business. However, if we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return or an acceptable return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could be prevented from selling our products or suffer significant litigation expense, even if these claims have no merit. Our competitive position is driven in part by our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Third parties, however, may claim that we, or our products, operations or any products or technology we obtain from other parties are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our assets, technology and products. There may be third parties that refrained from asserting intellectual property infringement claims against our products or processes while we were a majority-owned subsidiary of Hitachi that may elect to pursue such claims now that we are no longer a majority-owned subsidiary of Hitachi. For example, on March 27, 2008, Furukawa filed a complaint against Opnext Japan, alleging that certain laser diode modules sold by Opnext Japan infringe Furukawa’s Japanese Patent No. 2,898,643. The complaint seeks an injunction as well as 300 million yen in royalty damages. While the Tokyo District Court entered judgment in favor of Opnext Japan in February of 2010, the judgment was appealed by Furukawa to the Intellectual Property High Court on March 9, 2010. While we continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this litigation, the defense of this action has required significant expenditures on our part. There can be no assurances that this action or other actions that might be brought against us in the future will not result in a material recovery against, or significant additional expenses to, us. In addition, from time to time we receive letters from third parties that allege we are infringing their intellectual property and asking us to license such intellectual property, and we review the merits of each such letter. Any litigation regarding patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, even those without merit, could be costly and time consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. The complexity of the technology involved and inherent uncertainty and cost of intellectual property litigation increases our risks. If any third party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or manufacturing processes or enter into a licensing arrangement with such third party, which may be costly or impractical, particularly in the event we are subject to a contractual commitment to continue supplying impacted products to one or more of our customers. This also may require us to stop selling our products as currently engineered, which could harm our competitive position. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that prevent the further development and sale of certain of our products or services and may result in a material decrease in sales. The anticipated benefits of the acquisition of StrataLight may not be realized fully, or realized at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Achieving the potential benefits of the acquisition of StrataLight depends in substantial part on the successful integration of the two companies’ technologies, operations and personnel. We face significant challenges in continuing to integrate StrataLight’s organization and operations. Some of the challenges involved in this integration include: • integrating product offerings and manufacturing activities; • coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively communicate our capabilities to customers; • coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies with reduced cost; and 25 Table of Contents • preserving important relationships of both Opnext and StrataLight and resolving potential conflicts that may arise. The integration of StrataLight has been and will continue to be a complex, time consuming and expensive process and has and will continue to require significant attention from management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from our day-to-day business. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties associated with integrating StrataLight into Opnext could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation and could result in our not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We may not achieve strategic objectives, anticipated synergies and cost savings and other potential benefits of the acquisition of StrataLight. We expected to realize strategic and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the acquisition of StrataLight, including, among other things, certain cost and sales synergies. However, we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which these benefits will be or will continue to be achieved or the timing of the realization of any such benefits. The following factors, among others, may prevent or delay us from realizing these benefits: • our inability to increase product sales; • our inability to make the significant capital expenditures required to develop StrataLight’s planned products; • unfavorable customer reaction to the our company’s products; • competitive factors, including technological advances attained by competitors and patents granted to or contested by competitors, which would enhance their ability to compete against us; • the failure of key markets for our products to develop to the extent or as rapidly as expected; • changes in technology that increase the number of competitors we face or require us to develop competitive products; and • the failure to retain key employees. Failure to achieve the strategic objectives and anticipated potential benefits of the acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our sales, levels of expenses and operating results and could result in dilution in our earnings per share. Potential future acquisitions may not generate the results expected and could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of companies, technologies and products that we believe could accelerate our ability to compete in our core markets or allow us to enter new markets. If we fail to manage the pursuit, consummation and integration of acquisitions effectively, in particular during periods of industry uncertainty, our business could suffer. In addition, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the manufacturing, operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the acquired company; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we actually realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity or for our existing operations; • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; 26 Table of Contents • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the acquired company’s business; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the acquired company’s products; • inability to generate sufficient revenue and profitability to offset acquisition costs; • equity-based acquisitions may have a dilutive effect on our stock; and • inability to successfully consummate transactions with identified acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that any acquisition we might consummate will generate the anticipated results. While we continue to believe that the acquisition of StrataLight, a high-speed transport company that we acquired in January of 2009, complements our core of high speed client technologies, StrataLight has not contributed the level of revenues we initially anticipated that it would contribute to our overall results. For example, StrataLight contributed revenue of $16.7 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2011 as compared to revenue of $37.8 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $5.7 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, which represented the full amount of goodwill recorded at the time of the acquisition of Pine Photonics Communications, Inc. In addition, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $62.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 in connection with the acquisition of StrataLight, which represented the full amount of goodwill recorded in connection with such acquisition. We could be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if we fail to comply with applicable export control laws and regulations. Exports of certain of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. government and administered by the United States Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, administered by the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user and whether a license exception might apply. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, administered by the Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, require a license. In addition, products developed and manufactured in our foreign locations are subject to export controls of the applicable foreign nation. Obtaining necessary export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain necessary export licenses could significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to investigation and potential regulatory consequences, including, but not limited to, a no-action letter, monetary penalties, debarment from government contracting or denial of export privileges and criminal sanctions, any of which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Compliance with U.S. government regulations may also subject us to significant fees and expenses, including legal expenses, and require us to expend significant time and resources. Finally, the absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations include the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials. We are subject to various U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use of hazardous substances, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and the maintenance of a safe workplace. For example, the European Union enforced a mandatory requirement through a directive concerning the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS 2002/95/EC), which required us to make changes to our product line on a global basis to comply with the European directive, and may institute similar or additional directives in the future. A rework or repair expense may be incurred if products are shipped in non-compliance with such directives. These costs may exceed compensation, if any, from parts suppliers, and 27 Table of Contents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In the future, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. We were recently the target of securities class action complaints and are at risk of future securities class action litigation. Any additional litigation could result in substantial costs to us, drain our resources and divert our management’s time and attention. On February 20, 2008, a putative class action captioned Bixler v. Opnext, Inc., et al. was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey (the “Court”) against us and certain of our present and former directors and officers (the “Individual Defendants”), alleging, inter alia, that the registration statement and prospectus issued in connection with our initial public offering (the “IPO”) contained material misrepresentations in violation of federal securities laws. In March 2008, two additional putative class actions were filed in the Court, captioned Coleman v. Opnext, Inc., et al. and Johnson v. Opnext, Inc., et al., with similar allegations and naming us, the Individual Defendants, our independent auditor and the underwriters of the IPO as defendants. On May 22, 2008, the Court issued an order consolidating Bixler, Coleman, and Johnson and, on July 30, 2008, a consolidated complaint was filed on behalf of all persons who purchased our common stock on or before February 13, 2008, pursuant to or traceable to the IPO. On November 6, 2008, our independent auditor was voluntarily dismissed from the action by plaintiff without prejudice. On September 8, 2009, the remaining parties, including us and the Individual Defendants, entered into a Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement (the “Settlement”). On January 6, 2010, the Court granted final approval of the Settlement, which approval is no longer subject to appeal. We and the Individual Defendants have denied and continue to deny the claims asserted in the consolidated action and entered into the Settlement solely to avoid the costs and risks associated with further litigation. Under the terms of the Settlement, our insurer paid $2,000,000 to a settlement fund that was used to pay eligible claimants and plaintiffs’ counsel, plaintiff dismissed the consolidated action with prejudice and all defendants (including us and the Individual Defendants) were released from any claims that were brought or could have been brought in the consolidated action. We incurred significant legal fees in responding to this lawsuit and the expense of defending any additional litigation that may arise may also be significant. The amount of time that would be required to resolve any future lawsuits could be unpredictable and any such litigation could divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. A lack of effective internal control over financial reporting could result in an inability to accurately report our financial results, which could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, deficiencies in our internal controls. For example, as more fully described in Item 9A of Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, our management concluded that in the course of preparing our financial statements for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 errors occurred in the valuation of inventory consigned to one of our contract manufacturers and that, as a result, our inventory and trade payables balances and the reported amounts of cost of goods sold and other income (expense), net, were not properly reported for each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, and for the quarters beginning September 30, 2005 through March 31, 2007, and our inventory and trade payables balances and the reported amount of cost of goods sold were not properly reported for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. As a result of these errors, we restated our audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2006, and filed Amendment No. 1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 to restate these financial statements, as well as Amendment No. 1 to our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007. These restatements caused our management to conclude that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting because the controls did not identify the errors on a timely basis. During the quarter ended March 31, 2008, our management implemented processes and procedures that it believes remediated this weakness. As a result, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was operating effectively as of March 31, 2008 and for each subsequent quarterly period through the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and our stock price, and we could be subject to further stockholder litigation and the costs associated therewith. 28 Table of Contents Prior to the closing of our acquisition of StrataLight, StrataLight’s independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in StrataLight’s internal control over financial reporting. The identified material weaknesses included a lack of adequate financial statement resources and the lack of an appropriate level of qualified accounting staff, which resulted in a failure to adequately maintain books and records relating to non-recurring engineering arrangements and incorrect accounting for complex or unusual transactions. StrataLight also had a material weakness with respect to inconsistency in the effectiveness of the review over the inputs and analysis of warranty reserve, labor and overhead capitalization and inventory valuation. These material weaknesses were identified by StrataLight’s independent registered public accounting firm in connection with the audit of StrataLight’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, along with other matters involving its internal controls that constituted significant deficiencies and control deficiencies. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors or material misstatements in financial statements. While we believe we have been successful in remediating StrataLight’s material weakness, any recurrence of such material weaknesses, or any occurrence of other material weaknesses, may make it difficult for us to report our future financial results accurately and in a timely fashion. Because of the size of StrataLight in relation to Opnext, any errors resulting from StrataLight’s material weaknesses, significant deficiencies or control deficiencies could result in material misstatements to our future financial statements, which could cause an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income is limited and may in the future be subject to further limitations. As of December 31, 2009, we experienced an “ownership change” as that term is defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as Amended (“Section 382”), with the result of limiting the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards and other related tax attributes (“NOLs”) for future use. As a result of the “ownership change,” our U.S. federal and state NOLs were reduced by $28.0 million and $40.2 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. Our U.S. federal and state NOLs had been previously reduced by $15.8 million and $35.9 million, respectively, as a result of prior acquisitions. After giving effect to such reductions, we had U.S. federal, state and foreign NOLs of $148.3 million, $47.5 million and $267.5 million, respectively, at March 31, 2011. Of the NOLs at March 31, 2011, $131.9 million of U.S. federal NOLs and $33.7 million of state NOLs are subject to annual limitations in the amounts of $6.5 million and $2.7 million, respectively. There can be no assurance that in the future we will not experience further limitations with respect to the utilization of our NOLs. If we fail to retain our senior management and other key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including the members of our senior management team and key technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of services of members of our senior management team or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competition for highly skilled technical personnel is extremely intense and we continue to experience difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel in many areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain qualified personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. On April 1, 2009, we announced certain plans to reduce our cost structure and operating expenses, including a ten percent reduction in executive salaries and a five percent reduction in the salaries for other employees. Such salary reductions remained in effect until March 31, 2010, at which time they were discontinued. There can be no assurance that such measures will not adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key personnel. In addition, some of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have. Further, in making employment decisions, particularly in the high technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our stock or the poor relative performance of our stock could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key technical or other personnel. On December 10, 2010, Gilles Bouchard resigned from his position as our Chief Executive Officer and President and our Board of Directors (the “Board”) appointed Harry Bosco, our Chairman of the Board, to the position of Chief Executive Officer and President on an interim basis. Prior to assuming the position of Chairman of the Board in April 2009, Mr. Bosco had served as our Chief Executive Officer and President and a member of the Board since our formation in November 2000. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and attracting a permanent chief executive officer nor can there be any assurance as to the timing of when we might be successful in identifying and attracting a permanent chief executive officer. 29 Table of Contents Hitachi and Clarity could effectively together control the outcome of shareholder actions in the Company. As of June 1, 2011, Hitachi held an approximately 31.4%, and Clarity Partners, L.P. and Clarity Opnext Holdings II, LLC (collectively, “Clarity”) held an approximately 7.1%, equity interest in the Company. In addition, Hitachi and Clarity Management, L.P. each hold fully vested options to purchase 1,010,000 and 1,000,000 shares of our common stock, respectively, and they each have employees who serve as members of our board of directors. Their equity shareholdings could effectively give them the power to collectively control many or all actions that require shareholder approval, including the election of our board of directors. Significant corporate actions, including the incurrence of material indebtedness or the issuance of a material amount of equity securities may require the consent of our shareholders. Hitachi and Clarity, collectively or individually, might oppose any action that would dilute their respective equity interests in the Company, and may be unable or unwilling to participate in future financings of the Company and thereby materially harm our business and prospects. We may have conflicts of interest with Hitachi and, because of Hitachi’s significant ownership interest in the Company, may not be able to resolve such conflicts of interest on favorable terms for us. For example, Hitachi has another majority-owned subsidiary, Hitachi Cable, Ltd., that directly competes with us in certain 10Gbps 300 pin and LX4 applications and certain SFP applications. Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents and Delaware Law could make an acquisition of our company difficult. Certain provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; • provide that a supermajority vote of our stockholders is required to amend some portions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws; • establish advance notice requirements to nominate persons for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors; and • provide for the filling of vacancies on our board of directors by action of a majority of the directors and not by the stockholders. These and other provisions in our organizational documents could allow our board of directors to affect the rights of our stockholders in a number of ways, including making it difficult for stockholders to replace members of the board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for approving the appointment of members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. These provisions could also limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition to our governing documents, on June 18, 2009, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”) designed to protect our NOLs and other related tax attributes that could be used to reduce future potential federal and state income tax obligations. The rights were designed to deter stock accumulations made without prior approval from our board of directors that would trigger an “ownership change,” as that term is defined in Section 382, with the result of limiting the availability for future use of our NOLs. The Rights Plan was not adopted in response to any known accumulation of shares of our stock and was approved by our stockholders at our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. On February 8, 2010, Marubeni Corporation filed a Schedule 13G/A reporting events that, when taken together with other changes in ownership of our common stock by our five percent or greater stockholders during the prior three-year period, constituted an “ownership change” for us as that term is defined in Section 382, with the result of limiting the availability of our NOLs and other related tax attributes for future use. Notwithstanding such “ownership change,” the Rights Plan remains in place and may continue to deter accumulations of shares of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or prohibiting a merger or other takeover or a change of control of our company. Generally, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of our common stock for a period of three years after the time that the stockholder acquired our common stock, subject to certain exceptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 