ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Government Funding and Regulation of Public Education Most of our revenues depend on per pupil funding amounts and payment formulas remaining near the levels existing at the time we execute service agreements with the Managed Public Schools we serve. If those funding levels or formulas are materially reduced or modified due to economic conditions or political opposition, new restrictions adopted or payments delayed, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. The public schools we contract with are financed with government funding from federal, state and local taxpayers. Our business is primarily dependent upon those funds. Budget appropriations for education at all levels of government are determined through the political process, which may also be affected by conditions in the economy at large, such as the recessionary climate in the United States which led to budgetary pressures on state and local governments from 2008-2013 and significant declines in public school funding. The political process and general economic conditions create a number of risks that could have an adverse effect on our business including the following: • Legislative proposals can and have resulted in budget or program cuts for public education, including the virtual and blended public schools and school districts we serve, and therefore have reduced and could potentially limit or eliminate the products and services those schools purchase from us, causing our revenues to decline. From time to time, proposals are introduced in state legislatures that single out virtual and blended public schools for disparate treatment. • Economic conditions could reduce state education funding for all public schools, and could be disproportionate for the Managed Public Schools we serve. Our annual revenue growth is impacted by changes in federal, state and district per pupil funding levels. For example, due to the budgetary problems arising from the recession, many states reduced per pupil funding for public education affecting many of the public schools we serve, including even abrupt mid-year cuts in certain states, which in some cases were retroactively applied to the start of the school year as a result of formulaic adjustments. In addition, as we enter into service agreements with multiple Managed Public Schools in a single state, the aggregate impact of funding reductions applicable to those schools could be material. We have service agreements with 15 schools in California, for example, and while each school is independent with its own governing authority and no single Managed Public School accounts for more than ten percent of our revenue, regulatory actions that affect the level or timing of payments for all similarly situated schools in that state could adversely affect our financial condition. At this time, many states still have budget issues. The specific level of federal, state and district funding for the coming years is not yet known and, taken as a whole, it is reasonable to believe that a number of the public schools we serve could experience lower per pupil enrollment funding, while others may increase funding as the economic conditions improve. • As a public company, we are required to file periodic financial and other disclosure reports with the SEC. This information may be referenced in the legislative process, including budgetary considerations, related to the funding of alternative public school options, including virtual public schools and blended schools. The disclosure of this information by a for-profit education company, regardless of parent satisfaction and student performance, may nonetheless be used by opponents of virtual and blended public schools to propose funding reductions or restrictions. • From time to time, government funding to schools is not provided when due, which sometimes causes the affected schools to delay payments to us for our products and services. These payment delays have occurred in the past and can deprive us of significant working capital until the matter is resolved, which could hinder our ability to implement our growth strategies and conduct our business. For example, in fiscal year 2012, due to shortfalls in its general revenue funds, California 35 Table of Contents announced that it would be deferring its per-student attendance payments to all public schools until early fiscal year 2013, which significantly increased our accounts receivable balance. The poor performance or misconduct by us or operators of other virtual public schools, public school district virtual learning programs or blended schools could tarnish the reputation of all the school operators in our industry, which could have a negative impact on our business. As a non-traditional form of public education, online public school operators will be subject to scrutiny, perhaps even greater than that applied to traditional brick and mortar public schools or public charter schools. Not all virtual public school, school district virtual learning program or blended school operators will have successful academic programs or operate efficiently, and new entrants may not perform well either. Such underperformance could create the impression that virtual schooling is not an effective way to educate students, whether or not our learning systems achieve satisfactory performance. Consistently poor academic performance could also lead to termination of an approved provider status in some jurisdictions. Beyond academic performance issues, some virtual school operators have been subject to governmental investigations alleging the misuse of public funds or financial irregularities. These allegations have attracted significant adverse media coverage and have prompted legislative hearings and regulatory responses. Although these investigations have focused on specific companies and individuals, or even entire industries in the case of for-profit higher education companies, they may negatively impact public perceptions of virtual public schools, public school district virtual learning programs or blended school providers generally, including us. The precise impact of these negative public perceptions on our current and future business is difficult to discern, in part because of the number of states in which we operate and the range of particular malfeasance or performance issues involved. We have incurred significant costs in several states advocating against harmful legislation which, in our opinion, was aggravated by negative media coverage about us or other operators. If these few situations, or any additional misconduct, cause all virtual public school, school district virtual learning program and blended school providers to be viewed by the public and/or policymakers unfavorably, we may find it difficult to expand into new states or enter into or renew contracts to operate virtual or blended schools. In addition, this perception could serve as the impetus for more restrictive legislation, which could limit our future business opportunities, such as the recent restrictions enacted in Tennessee which cap enrollment growth in schools with weak academic performance. Opponents of virtual and blended public schools have sought to challenge the establishment and expansion of such schools through the judicial process. If these interests prevail, it could damage our ability to sustain or grow our current business or expand in certain jurisdictions. We have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to public policy lawsuits filed against virtual and blended schools by those who do not share our belief in the value of this form of public education. Whether or not we are a named party to these lawsuits, legal claims have involved challenges to the constitutionality of authorizing statutes, methods of instructional delivery, funding provisions and the respective roles of parents and teachers. For example, in 2014, the New Jersey Education Association, the state affiliate of a national teachers union, challenged the grant of a charter to the Newark Preparatory Charter School that was contracting with us for educational products and services. The court denied the union's challenge and sustained the grant of the charter. In the Matter of the Grant of a Charter to the Merit Preparatory Charter Sch. and in the Matter of the Grant of a Charter to the Newark Preparatory Charter Sch., 435 N.J. Super. 273 (App Div. 2014) 36 Table of Contents Should we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to the Managed Public Schools and the Institutional Sales districts we serve, such failures could result in a loss of public funding and an obligation to repay funds previously received, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Once authorized by law, virtual and blended public schools are generally subject to extensive regulation, as are the school districts served by our Institutional Sales business. These regulations cover specific program standards and financial requirements including, but not limited to: (i) student eligibility standards; (ii) numeric and geographic limitations on enrollments; (iii) state-specific curriculum requirements; (iv) restrictions on open-enrollment policies by and among districts; (v) prescribed teacher: student ratios and teacher funding allocations from per pupil funding; and (vi) teacher certification and reporting requirements. State and federal funding authorities conduct regular program and financial audits of the public schools we serve to ensure compliance with applicable regulations. If a final determination of non-compliance is made, additional funds may be withheld which could impair that school's ability to pay us for services in a timely manner, or the school could be required to repay funds received during the period of non-compliance. Additionally, the indemnity provisions in our standard service agreements with virtual and blended public schools and school districts may require us to return any contested funds on behalf of the school. Virtual and blended public schools are relatively new, and enabling legislation therefore is often ambiguous and subject to discrepancies in interpretation by regulatory authorities, which may lead to disputes over our ability to invoice and receive payments for services rendered. Statutory language providing for virtual and blended public schools is sometimes interpreted by regulatory authorities in ways that may vary from year to year making compliance subject to uncertainty. More issues normally arise during our first few school years of doing business in a state because the enabling legislation often does not address specific issues, such as what constitutes proper documentation for enrollment eligibility in a virtual or blended school. From time to time there are changes to the regulators' approach to determining the eligibility of virtual or blended school students for funding purposes. Another issue may be differing interpretations on what constitutes a student's substantial completion of a semester in a public school. These regulatory uncertainties may lead to disputes over our ability to invoice and receive payments for services rendered, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of virtual and blended public charter schools depends on the maintenance of the authorizing charter and compliance with applicable laws. If these charters are not renewed, our contracts with these schools would be terminated. In many cases, virtual and blended public schools operate under a charter that is granted by a state or local authorizer to the charter holder, such as a community group or an established not-for-profit corporation, which typically is required by state law to qualify for student funding. In fiscal year 2014, approximately 88% of our revenue was derived from Managed Public Schools, the majority of which were virtual and blended public schools operating under a charter. The service agreement for these schools is with the charter holder or the charter board. Non-profit public charter schools qualifying for exemption from federal taxation under Code Section 501(c)(3) as charitable organizations must also operate on an arms-length basis in accordance with Internal Revenue Service rules and policies to maintain that status and their funding eligibility. In addition, all state public charter school statutes require periodic reauthorization. If a virtual or blended public school we manage fails to maintain its tax-exempt status and funding eligibility, or if its charter is revoked for non-performance or other reasons that may be due to actions of the independent charter board completely outside of our control, our contract with that school would be terminated. 37 Table of Contents Actual or alleged misconduct by our senior management and directors or officials could make it more difficult for us to enter into new contracts or renew existing contracts. If we or any of our current or former directors, officers, key employees or officials are accused or found to be guilty of serious crimes or civil violations, including the mismanagement or improper accounting of public funds, or violations of the federal securities laws, the schools we serve could be barred or discouraged from entering into or renewing service agreements with us. As a result, our business and revenues would be adversely affected. New laws or regulations not currently applicable to for-profit education companies in the K-12 sector could be enacted and negatively impact our operations and financial results. As the provision of online K-12 public education matures, novel issues may arise that could lead to the enactment of new laws or regulations similar to, or in addition to, laws or regulations applicable to other areas of education and education at different levels. For example, for-profit education companies that own and operate post-secondary colleges depend in significant respect on student loans provided by the federal government to cover tuition expenses, and federal laws prohibit incentive compensation for success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person engaged in student recruiting or admission activities. In contrast, while students in virtual or blended public K-12 schools are entitled to a free public education with no federal or state loans necessary for tuition, laws could be enacted that make for-profit management companies serving such schools subject to similar or other restrictions. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry The schools we contract with and serve are governed by independent governing bodies that may shift their priorities or change objectives in ways adverse to us, or react negatively to acquisitions or other transactions. We contract with and provide a majority of our products and services to virtual and blended public schools governed by independent boards or similar governing bodies. While we typically share a common objective at the outset of our business relationship, over time our interests could diverge resulting in changes adverse to our business. For example, in fiscal year 2013, in connection with a one-year charter renewal of the Colorado Virtual Academy ("COVA") by its school district authorizer, our interests diverged significantly with the COVA governing authority, which expressed its intention to assume management of the school after the 2013-14 school year while continuing to purchase curriculum and other services from us. If these independent boards of the schools or school districts we serve subsequently shift their priorities or change objectives, and as a result reduce the scope of services and products we provide, or terminate their relationship with us, our ability to generate revenues would be adversely affected. Our contracts with the Managed Public Schools we serve are subject to periodic renewal, and each year several of these agreements are set to expire. If we are unable to renew several such contracts or if a single significant contract expires during a given year, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. In fiscal year 2014 we had contracts with 73 Managed Public Schools to provide our full range of products and services in 33 states and the District of Columbia. Some of these contracts are scheduled to expire in any given year and may not be renewed or may be renewed on terms much less favorable to us. Due to significant advance notice provisions or on the request of a school's charter authority, we usually begin to engage in renewal negotiations before and during the final year of these contracts and any renewed contract could involve a restructuring of our services and management arrangements that could lower our revenue or even change how revenue and expenses are recognized. For example, in fiscal year 2014, the Agora Cyber Charter School ("Agora") elected to use a request for proposal process for the services and products required to operate the school for the 2015-16 school year in connection with its charter renewal application. Agora accounted for 13% of the Company's revenue in fiscal year 2014. If we 38 Table of Contents are unable to renew contracts such as Agora or if contract renewals have significantly less favorable terms or unbundle previously provided services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. If the schools we serve fail to enroll or reenroll a sufficient number of students, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our revenues are a direct function of how many students are enrolled in the Managed Public Schools we serve, the number of school districts and students who subscribe to the programs offered in our Institutional Sales business, and the enrollments in our three international and private pay schools. Because families have alternative choices both within and outside the public school system for educating their children, it is typical during each school year that some students withdraw from schools using our online education services and switch to their traditional local public schools, other charter school alternatives or private schools. While the Managed Public Schools we serve also accept new student enrollment throughout the year where permitted, generally our average student enrollment declines as the school year progresses such that we serve on average fewer students at the end of any given school year than at the beginning of the year. If the Managed Public Schools we serve experience higher withdrawal rates during the year and/or enroll fewer new students as the year progresses than we have experienced in the past, our revenues, result of operations and financial conditions would be adversely affected. Similarly, at the start of each new school year students who had remained enrolled through the end of the previous year may have graduated from eighth or twelfth grade or have left our Managed Public Schools for any number of reasons. To the extent our Managed Public Schools we serve do not retain previously enrolled students from the prior year, they must attract new students at the start of the year to sustain their average student enrollment year over year, as well as to grow their enrollment each year, based upon enrollment objectives determined by the governing authority of those schools. If the schools we serve in the aggregate are able only to sustain prior year enrollment levels, our revenues may not grow from the prior year, absent improved revenue capture or the addition of new schools. More fundamentally, if average student enrollment at the schools we serve declines from one year to the next, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We also contract with Managed Public Schools and schools districts to provide marketing and enrollment services to the schools, and we provide similar services directly to our international and private pay schools. Efforts on our part to sustain or increase enrollments in the face of higher student withdrawals or fewer returning students at the start of a school year may lead to higher costs for us, and may adversely affect our operating margin. If we are unsuccessful in our marketing plan or enrollment processes for the schools, the average student enrollment at the schools may not grow as anticipated or could even decline, and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The student demographics at the schools we serve have been changing, which can lead to higher costs and affect our ability to sustain or grow our operating income. The schools we serve are publicly funded and are obligated to accept all students meeting state or district criteria for enrollment. Because an online education environment may offer a better educational opportunity for students falling behind grade level, the Managed Public Schools we serve have experienced in recent years a higher at-risk student population, requiring supplemental services and closer one-on-one involvement by teachers and school personnel, leading to higher costs to us in providing full management and curriculum services to the schools. The schools we serve also enroll a significant percentage of special needs students with learning and/or physical disabilities, which also add to our total costs. Education of high school students is generally more costly than K-8 as more teachers with subject matter expertise (e.g. chemistry, calculus) must be hired to support an expansive curriculum, electives, and 39 Table of Contents counseling services. As the relative percentage of high school students increases as part of the total average enrollment in our Managed Public Schools, our costs are likely to increase. As our costs structure evolves due to the demographics, educational profile and mix of the students enrolled in our Managed Public Schools, our profit margins may decline, and we may have increasing difficulty in sustaining or growing our operating income commensurate with our revenues. If student performance falls, state accountability standards are not achieved, teachers or administrators tamper with state test scoring, or parent and student satisfaction declines, a significant number of students may not remain enrolled in a virtual or blended public school that we serve, or charters may not be renewed or enrollment caps could be put in place, or enrollment practices could be limited and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The success of our business depends in part on the choice of a family to have their child begin or continue his or her education in a virtual or blended public school that we serve. This decision is based on many factors, including student performance and parent and student satisfaction. Students may perform significantly below state averages or the virtual or blended public school may fail to meet state accountability standards or the standards of the No Child Left Behind Act ("NCLB") where still applicable, or the conditions of waivers to NCLB requirements granted to states by the U.S. Department of Education. Like many traditional brick and mortar public schools, not all of the Managed Public Schools we serve meet the Adequate Yearly Progress ("AYP") requirements of NCLB, or one of these other benchmarks, as large numbers of new enrollments from students underperforming in traditional schools can lower overall results or the underperformance of any one subgroup can lead to the entire school failing to achieve AYP and potentially lead to the school's closure. For example, in Tennessee, the Commissioner of Education has statutory authority to close a virtual school if an accountability trigger is met. In addition, although serving academically at-risk students is an important aspect of our mission to educate any child regardless of circumstance, the performance of these students can adversely affect a school's standing under federal and state accountability systems. We expect that, as our enrollments increase and the portion of students that have not used our learning systems for multiple years increases, the average performance of all students using our learning systems may decrease, even if the individual performance of other students improves over time. This effect may also be exacerbated if students enrolled in schools that we provide services to or acquire are predominately below state proficiency standards. Moreover, Congress may amend the NCLB statute or state authorities may change their testing benchmarks in ways that negatively impact the schools we serve. Students in the Managed Public Schools we serve are required to periodically complete standardized state testing and the results of this testing may have an impact on school funding. Furthermore, in states granted NCLB waivers to adopt innovative accountability systems that consider student growth and school progress, if a school experiences repeated poor test results, those waivers allow such schools to create their own turnaround plans and interventions to address the largest achievement gaps, which in turn could impact our instructional costs. Further, to avoid the consequences of failing to meet applicable required proficiency or accountability standards, teachers or school administrators may engage in improperly altering student test scores, especially if teacher performance and compensation is evaluated on these results. Finally, parent and student satisfaction may decline as not all parents and students are able to devote the substantial time and effort necessary to complete our curriculum. A student's satisfaction may also suffer if his or her relationship with the virtual or blended public school teacher does not meet expectations. If student performance or satisfaction declines, students may decide not to remain enrolled in a virtual or blended public school that we serve and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents The transition to Common Core State Standards and Common Core Assessments could result in a decline in state test scores that might adversely affect our enrollment and financial conditions. Many states have adopted the CCSS prior to selecting the Common Core Assessments used to evaluate student performance under those new CCSS standards. As a result, it has been reported in many states that students learning under the CCSS but continuing to be tested under the existing state proficiency tests have experienced sharp declines in test results. As the fully-managed schools we serve undertake this transition, and given the growing number of at-risk students enrolling in these schools, academic performance could temporarily or permanently suffer such that these schools may become a less attractive alternative, enrollments could decline, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that formed the basis for the transaction. When strategic opportunities arise to expand our business, we may acquire or invest in other companies using cash, stock, debt, asset contributions or any combination thereof. We may face risks in connection with these or other future transactions, including the possibility that we may not realize the anticipated cost and revenue synergies or further the strategic purpose of any acquisition if our forecasts do not materialize. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the resources that could otherwise be used to support and grow our existing lines of business. Acquisitions may also create multiple and overlapping product lines that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays in service. Customers may decline to renew their contracts or the contracts of acquired businesses might not allow us to recognize revenues on the same basis. These transactions may also divert our management's attention and our ongoing business may be disrupted by acquisition, transition or integration activities. In addition, we may have difficulty separating, transitioning and integrating an acquired company's systems and the associated costs in doing so may be higher than we anticipate. There may also be other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition associated with the expansion of our business through acquisitions. We may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due or a loss of anticipated tax benefits. Our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including investment in other areas of our business, stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness. If we issue a significant amount of equity for future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. We may pay more than the acquired company or assets are ultimately worth and we may have underestimated our costs in continuing the support and development of an acquired company's products. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by liabilities resulting from a stock or asset acquisition, which may be costly, disruptive to our business, or lead to litigation. We may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities on a timely basis, if it all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations. We may face contingencies related to intellectual property, financial disclosures, and accounting practices or internal controls. Finally, we may not be able to retain key executives of an acquired company. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. 41 Table of Contents If demand for increased options in public schooling does not continue or if additional states do not authorize or adequately fund virtual or blended public schools, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Over the previous five fiscal years, we entered into service agreements for fully-managed virtual public schools and blended schools in many new states bringing our total to 33 states and the District of Columbia for the 2013-14 school year. In fiscal year 2014, Maine was added to the list of states that now permit virtual public schools, although we do not currently operate in that state. Without adding additional states, our Managed Public School revenues may become increasing dependent on serving more virtual schools in existing states. We also may not be able to fill available enrollment slots as forecasted. If the demand for virtual and blended public schools does not increase, if the remaining states are hesitant to authorize virtual or blended public schools, if enrollment caps are not removed or raised, or if the funding of such schools is inadequate, our opportunities for growth and our ability to sustain our revenues, results from operations and financial conditions would be adversely affected. Increasing competition in the education industry sectors that we serve could lead to pricing pressures, reduced operating margins, loss of market share, departure of key employees and increased capital expenditures. As a general matter, we face varying degrees of competition from a variety of education providers because our learning systems integrate all the elements of the education development and delivery process, including curriculum development, textbook publishing, teacher training and support, lesson planning, testing and assessment and school performance and compliance management. In both our Managed Public Schools and Institutional Sales businesses, we compete with companies that provide online curriculum and support services. We also compete with public school districts that offer K-12 online programs of their own or in partnership with other online curriculum vendors. We anticipate intensifying competition from such competitors and by new entrants. Our competitors may adopt similar curriculum delivery, school support and marketing approaches, with different pricing and service packages that may have greater appeal than our offerings. For example, price competition in the Institutional Sales business has intensified. In addition, some Managed Public Schools could seek to transition to a self-administered school by seeking competitive alternatives to portions of the products and services now provided entirely by us under our integrated fully managed service agreements. As an example of that type of transition, we recently negotiated a new four-year service agreement with Hawaii Technology Academy that transitioned the school from a fully-managed to a partially-managed program starting in FY 2015. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business, win and renew contracts, including fully managed public school contracts, or students fail to realize sufficient gains in academic performance, our revenues, opportunities for growth and operating margins may decline. Price competition from our current and future competitors could also result in reduced revenues, reduced margins or the failure of our product and service offerings to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance. We may also face competition from publishers of traditional educational materials that are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and may enter the field through acquisitions and mergers. As a result, they may be able to devote more resources and move quickly to develop products and services that are superior to our platform and technologies. We may not have the resources necessary to acquire or compete with technologies being developed by our competitors, which may render our online delivery format less competitive or obsolete. These new and well-funded entrants may also seek to attract our key executives as employees based on their acquired expertise in virtual education where such specialized skills are not widely available. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with our curriculum and our technology, as well as our ability to increase capital expenditures to sustain the competitive position of our product and retain our talent base. We cannot assure that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete effectively. 42 Table of Contents Regulatory frameworks on the accessibility of technology are continually evolving due to legislative and administrative developments and the rapid evolution of technology, which could result in increased product development costs and compliance risks. Our online curriculum is made available to students through computers and other display devices connected to the Internet. This curriculum includes a combination of software applications that include graphics, pictures, videos, animations, sounds and interactive content that present challenges to people with disabilities. A number of states and federal authorities have considered or are considering how electronic and information technology procured with state funds should be made accessible to persons with such disabilities. To the extent they enact or interpret laws and regulations to require greater accessibility, we will have to modify our curriculum offerings to satisfy those requirements. For example, in March 2014, the OCR entered into an agreement with the South Carolina Charter School District ("District") to ensure that the seven internet-based public charter schools in the state provide students with disabilities an equal opportunity to access each school's website and online learning environment by December 31, 2015, in compliance with Section 504 and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act. In addition, to the extent that we enter into federal government contracts or Section 508 standards are adopted by regulators, similar requirements could be imposed on us under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1974. If requirements or technology evolves in such a way as to accelerate or alter the need to make all curriculums accessible, we could incur significant product development costs on an accelerated basis. A failure to meet required accessibility needs could also result in loss or termination of significant contracts or in potential legal liability. We generate significant revenues from two virtual public schools, and the termination, revocation, expiration or modification of our contracts with these virtual public schools could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In fiscal year 2014, we derived approximately 10% and 13% of our revenues, respectively, from the Ohio Virtual Academy and the Agora Cyber Charter School in Pennsylvania. As noted above, the Agora School recently commenced a RFP process for the services and products required to operate the school for the 2015-16 school year in connection with its charter renewal application. If our contracts with either of these virtual public schools are terminated, the charters to operate either of these schools are not renewed or are revoked, enrollments decline substantially, funding is reduced, or more restrictive legislation is enacted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our Managed Public School business revenues are based in part on our estimate of the total funds each school will receive in a particular school year and our estimate of the full year expenses to be incurred by each school. As a result, differences between our quarterly estimates and the actual funds received and expenses incurred could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We recognize revenues ratably from certain of our fees charged to Managed Public Schools over the course of our fiscal year. To determine the pro rata amount of revenues to recognize in a fiscal quarter, we estimate the total funds each school will receive in a particular school year. Additionally, we take responsibility for any operating deficits incurred at most of the Managed Public Schools we serve. Because this may impair our ability to collect the full amount invoiced in a period and therefore collection cannot reasonably be assured, we reduce revenues by the estimated pro rata amount of the school's operating loss. We review our estimates of total funds and operating expenses periodically, and we revise as necessary, amortizing any adjustments over the remaining portion of the fiscal year. Actual school funding received and school operating expenses incurred may vary from our estimates or revisions and could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. 43 Table of Contents Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and adversely impact our working capital and liquidity throughout the year. Our revenues and operating results normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to the number of months in a fiscal quarter that our school customers are fully operational and serving students. In the typical academic year, our first and fourth fiscal quarters have fewer than three full months of operations, whereas our second and third fiscal quarters will have three complete months of operations. We ship learning kits to students in the beginning of the school year, our first fiscal quarter, generally resulting in higher learning kit revenues and margins in the first fiscal quarter relative to the other quarters. In aggregate, the seasonality of our revenues has generally produced higher revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year. Our operating expenses are also seasonal. Instructional costs and services increase in the first fiscal quarter primarily due to the costs incurred to ship learning kits at the beginning of the school year. These instructional costs may increase significantly quarter-to-quarter as school operating expenses increase. The majority of our selling and marketing expenses are incurred in the first and fourth fiscal quarters, as our primary enrollment season is July through September. We expect quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results to continue. These fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect our cash flow. As our business grows, these seasonal fluctuations may become more pronounced. As a result, we believe that sequential quarterly comparisons of our financial results may not provide an accurate assessment of our financial position. Risks Related to Our Operations We plan to continue to create new products, expand distribution channels and pilot innovative educational programs to enhance academic performance. If we are unable to effectively manage these initiatives or they fail to gain acceptance, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. As we create and acquire new products, expand our existing customer base and pilot new educational programs, we expect to face challenges distinct from those we currently encounter, including: • our continued development of public blended schools and individualized learning centers (also known as Flex schools) which has produced different operational challenges than those we previously encountered. In addition to the online component, these schools sometimes require us to lease facilities for classrooms, staff classrooms with teachers, provide meals and kitchen facilities, adhere to local safety and fire codes, purchase additional insurance and fulfill many other responsibilities; • the acquisition or opening of additional managed public schools in states where we already have a contract with such schools can potentially create customer dissatisfaction, confuse prospective parents in the school selection process, and present marketing differentiation challenges depending on the facts and circumstances in that state; • our operation of traditional or brick and mortar schools, as well as Flex schools used on a full-time basis by students accessing our curriculum online under the supervision of certified teachers and supporting instructors, has necessitated different management skills and presented additional risks compared to those in our core Managed Public Schools business; • our efforts to integrate adaptive learning technologies and solutions into our learning management system, which may require significant investment of resources to develop or acquire to continue to improve our educational programs and student outcomes; 44 Table of Contents • operating in international markets may require us to conduct our business differently than we do in the United States or in existing countries. Additionally, we may have difficulty training and retaining qualified teachers or generating sufficient demand for our products and services in international markets. International opportunities will also present us with different legal, operational, tax and currency challenges; • the use of our curriculum in classrooms will produce challenges with respect to adapting our curriculum for effective use in a traditional classroom setting; • our online private school business is dependent on a tuition-based financial model and may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of students over time to achieve long-run profitability or deliver a high level of customer satisfaction; • our participation in summer foreign language instruction camps through MIL, our joint venture with Middlebury College, could generate new legal liabilities and financial consequences associated with our responsibility for students housed on leased college campuses on a 24-hour basis over the duration of the camp; and • our continual efforts to innovate and pilot new programs to enhance student learning may not always succeed or may encounter unanticipated opposition. Our failure to manage these business expansion programs, or any new business expansion program or new distribution channel we pursue, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. High quality teachers are critical to the success of our learning systems. If we are not able to continue to recruit, train and retain quality certified teachers, our curriculum might not be effectively delivered to students, compromising their academic performance and our reputation. As a result, our brand, business and operating results may be adversely affected. High quality teachers are critical to maintaining the worth of our learning systems and assisting students with their daily lessons. In addition, teachers in the public schools we manage or who provide instruction in connection with the online programs we offer to school districts, must be state certified (with limited exceptions or temporary waiver provisions in various states), and we must implement effective internal controls in each jurisdiction to ensure valid teacher certifications, as well as the proper matching of certifications with student grade levels and subjects to be taught. Teachers must also possess strong interpersonal communications skills to be able to effectively instruct students in a virtual school setting, and the technical skills to use our technology-based learning systems. There is a limited pool of teachers with these specialized attributes and the Managed Public Schools and school districts we serve must provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain such qualified teachers. The teachers in most Managed Public Schools we serve are not our employees and the ultimate authority relating to those teachers resides with an independent not-for-profit the governing body, which oversees the schools. However, under many of our service agreements with virtual and blended public schools, we have responsibility to recruit, train and manage these teachers. The teacher recruitment and student assignment procedures and processes for both Managed Public Schools and the Institutional Sales businesses must also ensure full compliance with individual state certification and reporting requirements. We must also provide continuous training to virtual and blended public school teachers so they can stay abreast of changes in student demands, academic standards and other key trends necessary to teach online effectively, including measures of effectiveness. We may not be able to recruit, train and retain enough qualified teachers to keep pace with our growth while maintaining consistent teaching quality in the various Managed Schools we serve. Shortages of qualified teachers, failures to ensure proper teacher certifications in each state, or decreases in the quality of our instruction, whether actual or perceived, could have an adverse effect on our Managed Public Schools and Institutional Sales businesses. 45 Table of Contents School teachers are subject to union organizing campaigns, and if the teachers employed by us or at the Managed Pubic Schools we serve join a union, collective bargaining agreements negotiated with union representatives could result in higher operating expenses and the loss of management flexibility and innovation for which charter schools were created. If the teachers at any one of our Managed Public Schools were to join a union, the school authority or we would be obliged to negotiate a collective bargaining agreement with union representatives. Such an agreement could impact teacher salaries, benefits, work rules, restrictions on the teaching work-day and the time devoted to online communications with students, teacher tenure, and limitations on our flexibility to reassign or remove teachers for inadequate performance. This could result in higher expenses for school operations and could impede the sustainability of or any growth in enrollment at the school due to the loss of management flexibility and innovation. This could result in higher costs to us in providing management and curriculum services to the school, and adversely affect our operating margins and overall revenues. We rely on third-party service providers to host some of our solutions and any interruptions or delays in services from these third parties could impair the delivery of our products and harm our business. We currently outsource some of our hosting services to third parties. We do not control the operation of any third party facilities. These facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of any of these disasters or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Furthermore, the availability of our platform could be interrupted by a number of additional factors, including our customers' inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems due to human or other error, security breaches or ability of the infrastructure to handle spikes in customer usage. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. We operate a complex company-wide enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system and if it were to experience significant operating problems, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We operate a complex company-wide, integrated ERP system to handle various business, operating and financial processes which handles a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. If the ERP experiences significant problems it could result in operational issues including delayed billing and accounting errors and other operational issues which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. System delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report results of our operations, financial position and cash flows, which could impact our ability to timely complete important business processes. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and adversely impact our working capital and liquidity throughout the year. Our revenues and operating results normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to the number of months in a fiscal quarter that our school customers are fully operational and serving students. In the typical academic year, our first and fourth fiscal quarters have fewer than three full months of operations, whereas our second and third fiscal quarters will have three complete months of operations. We ship learning kits to students in the beginning of the school year, our first fiscal quarter, generally resulting in higher learning kit revenues and margins in the first fiscal quarter relative to the other quarters. In aggregate, the seasonality of our revenues has generally produced higher revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year. 46 Table of Contents Our operating expenses are also seasonal. Instructional costs and services increase in the first fiscal quarter primarily due to the costs incurred to ship learning kits at the beginning of the school year. These instructional costs may increase significantly quarter-to-quarter as school operating expenses increase. The majority of our selling and marketing expenses are incurred in the first and fourth fiscal quarters, as our primary enrollment season is July through September. The continued development of our product and service brands is important to our business. If we are not able to maintain and enhance these brands, our business and operating results may suffer. Enhancing brand awareness is critical to attracting and retaining students, and for serving additional virtual and blended public schools, school districts and online private schools and we intend to spend significant resources to accomplish that objective. These efforts include sales and marketing directed to targeted locations as well as the national marketplace, discreet student populations, the educational community at large, key political groups, image-makers and the media. As we continue to seek to increase enrollments and extend our geographic reach and product and service offerings, maintaining quality and consistency across all of our services and products may become more difficult to achieve, and any significant and well-publicized failure to maintain this quality and consistency will have a detrimental effect on our brands. We cannot provide assurances that our new sales and marketing efforts will be successful in further promoting our brands in a competitive and cost-effective manner. For example, in FY 2014 we discontinued the use of our Aventa Learning and A+ brands and introduced a new brand for marketing all of the curriculum and programs we offer to school districts under the FuelEd brand. If we are unable to further enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our products and services, or if we incur excessive sales and marketing expenses, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. Our patent, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, domain names and other intellectual property rights are important assets. For example, we have been granted three patents relating to the hardware and network infrastructure of our OLS, including the system components for creating and administering assessment tests and our lesson progress tracker and two patents related to foreign language instruction. Additionally, we are the copyright owner of the courses comprising our proprietary curriculum. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights. For instance, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. It is possible that we may not be able to sufficiently protect our innovations. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Further, there is always the possibility that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent be deemed invalid or unenforceable. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. This secrecy could be compromised by outside parties, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, or by our employees or former employees, intentionally or accidentally, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. Third parties may acquire domain names that are substantially similar to our domain names leading to a decrease in the value of our domain names and trademarks and other proprietary rights. 47 Table of Contents Lawsuits against us alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others and such actions would be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages or royalty payments and could limit our ability or increase our costs to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the Internet, software, technology, education, curriculum and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We currently face such litigation in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, IpLearn, LLC v. K12 Inc., Case No. 1:11-1026-RGA. Regardless of the merits, intellectual property claims are time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue certain products, services or practices that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. We also may have to seek a license and make royalty payments to continue offering our products and services or following such practices, which may significantly increase our operating expenses. We may be subject to legal liability resulting from the actions of third parties, including independent contractors, business partners, or teachers, which could cause us to incur substantial costs and damage our reputation. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to legal claims associated with the actions of or filed by our independent contractors, business partners, or teachers. In the event of accidents or injuries or other harm to students, we could face claims alleging that we were negligent, provided inadequate supervision or were otherwise liable for their injuries and our insurance may not cover the expenses of litigation or settlement amounts. Additionally, we could face claims alleging that our independent curriculum contractors or teachers infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. A liability claim against us or any of our independent contractors, business partners, or teachers could adversely affect our reputation, enrollment and revenues. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could create unfavorable publicity, cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert the time and attention of management. Unauthorized disclosure or manipulation of student, teacher and other sensitive data, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, could expose us to costly litigation or could jeopardize our contracts with virtual public schools or blended schools. Maintaining our network security and internal controls over access rights is of critical importance because our systems stores proprietary and confidential student and teacher information, such as names, addresses, and other personal information. Individuals and groups may develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or attempt to infiltrate our systems. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, third parties may receive or be able to access student records and we could be subject to liability or our business could be interrupted. Penetration of our network security could have a negative impact on our reputation and could lead virtual public schools, blended schools and parents to choose competitive offerings. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to provide additional protection from the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Additionally, we run the risk that employees or vendors could illegally disclose confidential educational information. 48 Table of Contents We rely on the Internet to enroll students and to deliver our products and services to children, which exposes us to a growing number of legal risks and increasing regulation. We collect information regarding students during the online enrollment process and a significant amount of our curriculum content is delivered over the Internet. As a result, specific federal and state laws that could have an impact on our business include the following: • the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, as implemented by regulations of the Federal Trade Commission (revised July 2013), imposes restrictions on the ability of online companies to collect and use personal information from children under the age of 13; • the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, which imposes parental or student consent requirements for specified disclosures of student information to third parties, and emerging state student data privacy laws; • the Communications Decency Act, which provides website operators immunity from most claims arising from the publication of third-party content; and • numerous state cyberbullying laws which require schools to adopt policies on harassment through the Internet or other electronic communications. In addition, the laws applicable to the Internet are still developing. These laws impact pricing, advertising, taxation, consumer protection, quality of products and services, and are in a state of change. New or amended laws may also be enacted, which could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us or force us to change our business practices. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our online computer networks could impact our ability to generate revenues and damage our reputation, limiting our ability to attract and retain students. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain virtual public schools, blended schools, school district customers, parents and students. Any sustained system error or failure, or a denial of service ("DNS") attack, could limit our users' access to our online learning systems, and therefore, damage our ability to generate revenues or provide sufficient documentation to comply with state laws requiring proof that students completed the required number of hours of instruction. Our technology infrastructure could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist activities and telecommunications failures. We utilize a single logistics vendor at two locations for the management, receiving, assembly and shipping of all of our learning kits and printed educational materials. In addition, we utilize the same vendor at a third location for the reclamation and redeployment of our student computers. This partnership depends upon execution on the part of us and the vendor. Any material failure to execute properly for any reason, including damage or disruption to any of the vendor's facilities would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of the inventory for our learning kits and printed materials is located in two warehouse facilities, both of which are operated by a third-party logistics vendor which handles receipt, assembly and shipping of all physical learning materials. If this logistics vendor were to fail to meet its obligations to deliver learning materials to students in a timely manner, or if a material number of such shipments are incomplete or contain assembly errors, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we provide computers for a substantial number of our students. Execution or merger integration failures which interfere with the reclamation or redeployment of computers may result in additional costs. Furthermore, a natural disaster, fire, power interruption, work stoppage or other unanticipated catastrophic event, especially during the period from April through June when we are awaiting receipt of most of the curriculum materials for the school year and have not yet shipped such 49 Table of Contents materials to students, could significantly disrupt our ability to deliver our products and operate our business. If any of our material inventory items were to experience any significant damage, we would be unable to meet our contractual obligations and our business would suffer. Any significant interruption in the operation of our data centers could cause a loss of data and disrupt our ability to manage our network hardware and software and technological infrastructure. We host our products and serve all of our students from third-party data center facilities. As part of our risk mitigation plan, we opened a second data center in a different geographic location. Even with such redundancy, we may not be able to prevent a significant interruption in the operation of these facilities or the loss of school and operational data due to a natural disaster, fire, power interruption, act of terrorism or other unanticipated catastrophic event. Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities, including an interruption caused by our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or manage our transition to utilizing the expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to manage our network and technological infrastructure, which could result in lost sales, enrollment terminations and impact our brand reputation. Additionally, we do not control the operation of these facilities and must rely on another party to provide the physical security, facilities management and communications infrastructure services related to our data centers. Although we believe we would be able to enter into a similar relationship with another party should this relationship fail or terminate for any reason, our reliance on a single vendor exposes us to risks outside of our control. If this vendor encounters financial difficulty such as bankruptcy or other events beyond our control that causes it to fail to secure adequately and maintain its hosting facilities or provide the required data communications capacity, students of the schools we serve may experience interruptions in our service or the loss or theft of important customer data. Any significant interruption in the operation of our enrollment centers could disrupt our ability to recommend educational options to parents, respond to service requests and process enrollments. Our primary enrollment center operations are housed in our corporate headquarters and in a facility located in Knoxville, Tennessee. We are able to reroute calls to the other facility if one facility is unable to temporarily service calls. Rerouting of calls may not be able to prevent a significant interruption in the operation of any of the facilities due to natural disasters, accidents, failures of our fulfillment provider. Any significant interruption in the operation of any primary facility, including an interruption caused by our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or to manage these expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to respond to service requests, receive and process orders and provide products and services, which could result in lost and cancelled sales, and damage to our brand reputation. Capacity limits on some of our technology, transaction processing systems and network hardware and software may be difficult to project and we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems in a timely manner to meet significant unexpected increased demand. As the number of schools we serve increases and our student base grows, the traffic on our transaction processing systems and network hardware and software will rise. We may be unable to accurately project the rate of increase in the use of our transaction processing systems and network hardware and software. In addition, we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems and network hardware and software capabilities to accommodate significant unexpected increased or peak use. If we are unable to appropriately upgrade our systems and network hardware and software in a timely manner, our operations and processes may be temporarily disrupted. 50 Table of Contents Our efforts to expand capacity may not produce the operational and financial results for which those investments were intended. As we have grown to serve more schools, students and families in an increasing number of states and countries, we have invested in infrastructure systems and technology to keep pace such as new telephony systems, enterprise hardware and software systems, and enrollment centers. In the absence of compatible business processes, adequate employee training, integration with other dependent systems, and sufficient staffing, this expanded capacity alone may not result in improved performance or outcomes. We may be unable to keep pace with changes in technology as our business and market strategy evolves. As our business and market strategy evolves, we will need to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to remain competitive, such as the advent of tablets for public school applications, adaptive learning technologies, and web accessibility standards. The need to respond to technological changes may require us to make substantial, unanticipated expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to respond successfully to technological change. Pursuant to our joint venture agreement with Middlebury College, there is a risk that Middlebury College might exercise its right to require us to purchase its ownership interest in our joint venture at fair market value which could adversely affect our financial condition. A key provision in our joint venture agreement with Middlebury College is its right beginning on April 14, 2015 and upon 180 days advance notice, to require us to purchase all, but not a portion of, its ownership interest in our joint venture at fair market value and based on an independent appraisal. We have the right to pay the redemption cost in cash, stock or a combination thereof, at our option. It is uncertain when or whether Middlebury College would elect to exercise this right and therefore, we cannot at this time determine the form of the redemption payment and therefore the exact impact to our financial condition or dilution to stockholders. We may be unable to attract and retain skilled employees. Our success depends in large part on continued employment of senior management and key personnel who can effectively operate our business, which is necessary in the highly regulated public education sector involving a publicly-traded for-profit company. This complexity requires us to attract and retain management and employees with specialized skills and knowledge across many disciplines. If any of these employees leave we and we fail to effectively manage a transition to new personnel, or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and experienced professionals on acceptable terms, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success also depends on our having highly trained financial, technical, recruiting, sales and marketing personnel. We will need to continue to hire additional personnel as our business grows. A shortage in the number of people with these skills or our failure to attract them to our Company could impede our ability to increase revenues from our existing products and services, ensure full compliance with federal and state regulations, launch new product offerings, and would have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may need additional capital in the future, but there is no assurance that funds will be available on acceptable terms. We may need to raise additional funds in order to achieve growth or fund other business initiatives. This financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. Additionally, any securities issued to raise funds may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available or are not available 51 Table of Contents on acceptable terms, our ability to expand, develop or enhance services or products, or respond to competitive pressures will be limited. Our curriculum and approach to instruction may not achieve widespread acceptance, which would limit our growth and profitability. The curriculum offerings and approach to individualized learning are based on the structured delivery, clarification, verification and practice of lesson subject matter. While we believe our curriculum is aligned with state standards in the jurisdictions where we manage virtual and blended public schools and these schools offer accredited diplomas, this approach is not accepted by all academics and educators, who may favor less formalistic methods and have the ability to negatively influence the market for our products and services. In addition, the acceptance and adoption of the CCSS grade level requirements and proposed common assessments of those standards is uncertain and continues to change at the state and district level. As a result, the standards for measuring student achievement could vary from state to state, and even from district to district, and therefore, we cannot anticipate at this time the impact these varying standards may have in terms of requiring additional investment on our part, or on our ability to sustain or expand our operating margins. 52 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 