Item 1A, Risk Factors. Item 1A, along with other sections of this Annual Report, describes some, but not all, of the factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from management’s expectations and have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and common stock of the Company. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are urged, however, to review the factors set forth in reports that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless the context requires otherwise in this Annual Report the terms “Ergo,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Ergo Science Corporation and its subsidiaries. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Ergo Science Corporation (the “Company” or “Ergo”), through its wholly owned subsidiary, Nexus Media Communications (“Nexus Media”), is a business information provider serving key markets from defense and communications to travel and horticulture, using an increasing range of media. In each market we seek to provide clients with a comprehensive range of products through which to service their customers. In addition to core magazine brands, we also provide services which include exhibitions, conferences, awards ceremony events and online services. Our products and services Nexus Media, is comprised of eight wholly-owned subsidiaries which provide information across a diverse range of markets including printed magazines, web sites, data services and directories, staged exhibitions, conferences and award ceremony events. Our business includes: 13 trade names (including: Checkout, Electrical Times; Independent Grocer; The Motor Ship; World Travel Guide and Motor Trader); 150 domain names (including columbusguides.com; groweroftheyear.com; harpers-wine.com; motorship.com; motortrader.com; travel-guide.com; and worldfish.com); approximately 50 printed magazines and directories (including: Motor Trader; Harpers Wines & Spirits, The Grower, Independent Retail News, World Fishing; The World Travel Guide and Electrical Review) and approximately 30 Events including exhibitions, awards evenings and conferences such as the International Wine & Spirit Competition; the Undersea Defence Technology Conference & Exhibition; the Motor Trader Awards and the Grower of the Year Awards. Our revenue is derived from a number of sources including the following: • magazine advertising, which accounted for 52% of revenue in 2005; • exhibitors, exhibition sponsors and attendees, which accounted for 15% of revenue in 2005; • sponsors/entrants/attendees at awards evenings and competitions, which accounted for 15% of revenue in 2005; • subscriptions/copy sales of magazines, which accounted for 7% of revenue in 2005; • sales of books, which accounted for 4% of revenue in 2005; 3 • sales of content for third party use, primarily data related to the travel industry, which accounted for 3% of revenue in 2005; • internet advertising, which accounted for 2% of revenue in 2005; and • conference attendees and sponsors, which accounted for 2% of revenue in 2005. Customers Our customers consist primarily of corporations, although we also have a small number of customers in government, academic and non-profit organizations as well as some subscribers to our magazines who are individuals. Our customers are principally located in the United Kingdom, but we also have customers located in other parts of Western Europe and the United States. Strategy Our primary goal is to create value for our shareholders by creating and delivering efficiently a leading set of products and services to our customers. We hope to offer products and services at quality and price points that deliver value for our customers. We intend to reposition ourselves as a business information provider rather than a business magazine publisher. In order to accomplish this goal, we are putting in place an infrastructure that will allow us to increase the product range we offer to clients in each of the business sectors in which we operate. In particular, we are looking to increase the proportion of revenue derived from on line services and events and to become significantly less dependant on magazine advertising revenue. This strategy reflects trends already evident in our markets where clients wish to be offered a range of solutions to their marketing needs. In addition to internal changes, we may be able to expand our customer base through acquisitions. Sales & Marketing As of December 31, 2005, Nexus Media employed 74 people in its sales and marketing organization. The vast majority of these employees (70) operate out of the Nexus Media headquarters in Swanley, Kent in the United Kingdom. Nexus Media also has one salesperson in Leicester, United Kingdom and another in Braunschweig, Germany as well as two marketing employees who operate in Dunsford Park, Surrey in the United Kingdom. Sales are principally driven via telephone calls and direct contact with potential customers. Marketing is principally driven by direct mail and email. Client Service and Support It is our belief that customer service and support play an important part in the success of our business. Our sales group is available to our customers to provide day-to-day information and marketing advice to our clients as needed. Our production, studio and web teams provide ongoing information and marketing advice to our customers as needed. The events operations department also provides on site information support at all of our exhibitions and other events. Operations We currently own the office space of our United Kingdom headquarters in Swanley, Kent in the United Kingdom, where we employ approximately 220 individuals as of December 31, 2005. We also have smaller operations performed from offices in Surrey in the United Kingdom as well as in Braunschweig, Germany. The office in Surrey is used to produce and administer the International Wine and Spirits Competition (“IWSC”). The various travel publications receive assistance in production and language translation from an employee in the Braunschweig, Germany office. Competition Competition in our market place comes from a number of areas, including major media public companies such as EMAP, Reed Elsevier and United Business Media, all of whom have significant business to business operations including magazines, events and online services. We also have competitors who are significant business to business media companies such as Incisive, 4 Centaur, William Reed and Informa, as well as a wide range of smaller business to business companies, such as Datateam Publishing Ltd and Metropolis International (UK) Ltd, which normally specialize in a relatively narrow range of market sectors. In addition there is competition from Pro-Talk Ltd, a company that is a provider of on-line information which includes email newsletters in addition to publishing. We believe that the key factor in protecting and growing our revenue will be to continue the development of new and diversified products which we offer through the launching of new events and on line services. Human resources As of February 1, 2006, the Company had approximately 240 full time employees worldwide, of which approximately 230 were employed in the United Kingdom, 5 in the United States and 5 in Germany. The Company’s employees are not represented by any labor union and the Company is not aware of any current activity to organize any of its employees. Insurance The Company currently purchases insurance policies for property and liability risks arising out of current operations. Corporate Background Corporate History Prior to the Acquisition of Nexus Media Communications Ergo Science Development Corporation (“ESDC”) was incorporated on January 23, 1990. ESDC operated as an S Corporation from inception to September 10, 1992, when it converted to a C Corporation. In April 1995, ESDC went through a recapitalization whereby all the stock of ESDC was exchanged on a one-for-one basis for an equal amount of stock in Ergo Science Holdings, Incorporated, which previously was a wholly owned subsidiary of ESDC. Subsequent to the recapitalization, Ergo Science Holdings, Incorporated changed its name to Ergo Science Corporation. From our incorporation through March 2001, we were engaged in the development of ERGOSET® tablets for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. In March 2001, we decided that the next phase of the development of ERGOSET® would be better undertaken by a company that has more experience with human drug development and more resources for regulatory approval and marketing than we do. On November 24, 2003 we sold all of our scientific and research assets and certain other intellectual property assets to Pliva d.d., a company organized under the laws of Croatia (“Pliva”). At the time of the sale, we received $5,498,000 in cash. In addition, Pliva has assumed our future obligations under the royalty agreement with Louisiana State University (“LSU”). If Pliva is successful in obtaining approval from the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) they would be required to make certain royalty payments to LSU based on sales of the potential product. Also as part of the agreement, Pliva has agreed to make payments to one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Ergo Texas, to cover certain payments required to be made in the event that Ergoset® or another specified drug is approved by the FDA. Ergo Texas may under some circumstances remain liable for some payments but they would have legal remedies available to them against Pliva. From our inception through 2005, the Company has been unprofitable every year except 2003. We were profitable in 2003 solely because of the sale of the Company’s science assets to Pliva. From November 2003 until February 2005, the Company had been reviewing and evaluating potential acquisitions. Acquisition of Nexus Media Communications Ergo acquired Nexus Media, the business to business publishing division of Highbury House Communications plc (“Highbury House”) a company organized under the laws of the United Kingdom, on April 1, 2005. The purchase price of GBP £12,500,000 (approximately $23,712,000) was subject to a GBP £1,041,000 (approximately $1,958,000) working capital adjustment. At closing therefore, the Company paid Highbury House GBP £11,459,000 (approximately $21,754,000). After completion the final working capital amount was confirmed and an additional working capital adjustment was made to the Company in the amount of GBP £464,000 (approximately $873,000), which we received in the third quarter of 2005. In addition, Ergo received an additional GBP £320,000 (approximately $603,000) as reimbursement for warranty claims. As of December 31, 2005, Ergo had paid a total $20,918,000 related to the acquisition, which includes $640,000 in capitalized acquisition costs. The acquisition was funded by Ergo from its own cash and cash equivalents. Nexus Media is comprised of eight wholly-owned subsidiaries, provides information across a diverse range of sectors including printed and web-based magazines, data services and directories, staging exhibitions, conferences and award ceremonies. 5 Stock Transfer Restrictions At Ergo’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 15, 2001, stockholders approved the imposition of transfer restrictions on its common stock (the “Transfer Restrictions”), which are contained in Article XII of the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation (the “Certificate”). The Transfer Restrictions were implemented on October 19, 2001 to preserve certain valuable tax benefits (the “Tax Benefits”) to which the Company is entitled. Effective May 18, 2005, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Company, acting by unanimous consent (the “Unanimous Consent”), and taking into consideration that the Tax Benefits will not begin to expire until 2008, that the Company’s ability to retain the Tax Benefits is subject to limitations resulting from, among other things, an ownership change (an “Ownership Change”) as defined in Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor statute (collectively, the “Code”), that the value of the Tax Benefits could be reduced if an Ownership Change occurs, and that the Transfer Restrictions likely decrease the possibility of an Ownership Change, determined (the “Determination”) that modifying the definition of “Expiration Date” set forth in Article XII.(1) of the Certificate and extending that date through 2007 was in the best interests of the Company and both reasonably necessary and desirable to preserve the Tax Benefits. As a result of the Determination, the Board modified the text of Article XII. (1) of the Certificate to read as follows: the following restrictions shall apply until the earlier of (x) the day after the sixth (6th) anniversary of the effective time of the merger of the Corporation’s parent corporation, a Delaware corporation, with and into the Corporation pursuant to Section 253 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “Merger”) (y) the repeal of Section 382 of the Code if the Board of Directors determines that the restrictions in this Article XII are no longer necessary for the preservation of the Tax Benefits, and (z) the beginning of a taxable year of the Corporation to which the board of directors determines that no Tax Benefits may be carried forward, unless the Board of Directors shall fix an earlier or later date in accordance with Section 5 of this Article XII (the date on which the restrictions of this Article XII expire hereunder is sometimes referred to herein as the “Expiration Date”). The day after the sixth anniversary of the effective date of the merger is October 20, 2007. Additionally, the Board extended the Expiration Date until October 20, 2007. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and all of our other SEC reports, you should consider the following factors in evaluating us, our business and the strategic direction we may head in the future. The market for Nexus Media’s products and services is competitive. The competition for Nexus Media’s products and services is highly fragmented by product offering and by geography. On a global level, larger international firms operate in many geographic markets and have broad product offerings in trade shows, conferences, publications and direct marketing products and other. Within each particular industry sector, Nexus Media also competes with a large number of small to medium-sized firms. While most small to medium-sized firms operate in a single geographic market or industry sector, in some cases, its competitors operate in several geographic markets and/or industry sectors. Its trade shows and conferences compete with trade associations and, in several markets, with exposition hall owners and operators. Its publications typically have between two and five direct competitors that target the same industry sector, and it also has many indirect competitors that define niche markets differently than it does and thus may provide alternatives for readers and/or advertisers. Nexus Media has not previously acted as a stand-alone company. Prior to April 1, 2005, Nexus Media had no history of operating as a stand-alone company, and it may be unable to make the changes necessary to operate as a stand-alone company, or it may incur greater costs as a stand-alone company that may cause its profitability to decline. Nexus Media had been operated by Highbury House as a 6 division of its broader publishing organization rather than as a separate stand-alone company. Highbury House assisted Nexus Media by performing various corporate functions, including public relations, employee relations, financing and legal and tax functions. Following the acquisition, Highbury House had no obligation to provide these functions to Nexus Media. If Nexus Media is unable to implement its own systems and business functions or if it does not have agreements with other providers of these services, Nexus Media may not be able to effectively operate its business and its profitability may decline. Trade Show exhibit space and ad pages could decline as a result of an economic slowdown in the United Kingdom, future terrorist attacks, or geopolitical concern. Nexus Media’s customers typically reduce their marketing and advertising budgets during a general economic downturn or a recession in the United Kingdom or in any other market where Nexus Media conducts a significant amount of business. The longer a recession or economic downturn continues the more likely it becomes that Nexus Media’s customers may significantly reduce their marketing and advertising budgets. Any material decrease in marketing budgets could reduce the demand for exhibition space and also reduce attendance at Nexus Media’s trade shows and conferences. In addition, any material decrease in advertising budgets could reduce the demand for advertising space in Nexus Media’s publications. As a result, Nexus Media’s revenue and its cash flow from operations could decrease significantly. In addition, Nexus Media’s integrated marketing strategy could be materially adversely affected if advertising revenue cannot support one or more of its important publications or if declines in its customers’ marketing and advertising budgets require it to discontinue one or more of its important trade shows or conferences. Further terrorist attacks and continued geo-political concern (including conflict in the Middle East) may significantly affect Nexus Media’s future results of operations or financial condition, whether as a result of (1) reduced attendance at, or curtailment or cancellation of, trade shows due to travel fears, (2) further reduction in economic activity and a related reduction in marketing expenditures on publications or trade shows, or (3) other circumstances that could result from these or subsequent attacks. Nexus Media depends on securing desirable dates and locations for its trade shows and conferences, which it may not be able to secure. The date and location of a trade show or a conference can impact Nexus Media profitability and prospects. The market for desirable dates and locations is highly competitive. If Nexus Media cannot secure desirable dates and locations for its trade shows and conferences, profitability and future prospects would suffer, and its financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In general, Nexus Media maintains multi-year reservations for its trade shows and conferences. Consistent with industry practice, it does not pay for these reservations, and these reservations are not binding on the facility owners until Nexus Media executes a contract with the owner. Nexus Media typically signs contracts that guarantee the right to venues or dates for only one year. Therefore, multi-year reservations may not lead to binding contracts with facility owners. In addition, because trade shows and conferences are held on pre-scheduled dates at specific locations, the success of a particular trade show or conference depends upon events outside Nexus Media’s control, such as natural catastrophes, labor strikes and transportation shutdowns. Nexus Media’s trade shows, conferences and publishing revenues vary due to the movement of annual events or publication mailing dates and the timing of its customers’ product launches. Nexus Media’s trade shows, conferences and publishing revenues are seasonal, due primarily to the timing of its large trade shows and conferences and the mailing dates of its magazines and industry directories. Because event revenues are recognized when a particular event is held and publication revenues are recognized in the month publications are mailed, Nexus Media may also experience fluctuations in quarterly revenues based on the movement of annual events or mailing dates from one quarter to another. In addition, Nexus Media’s trade show and conference revenues may fluctuate from period to period based on the spending patterns of its customers. Many of its large customers concentrate their trade show participation around major product launches. Because it cannot always know or predict when its large customers intend to launch new products, it is difficult to anticipate any related fluctuations in trade show and conference revenues. 7 Nexus Media depends in part on new product introductions, and the process of researching, developing, launching and establishing profitability for a new event or publication is inherently risky and costly. Nexus Media’s success depends in part upon its ability to monitor rapidly changing market trends and to adapt events and publications to meet the evolving needs of existing and emerging target audiences. Future success will depend in part on Nexus Media’s ability to continue to adapt existing events and publications and to offer new events and publications by addressing the needs of specific audience groups within its target markets. The process of researching, developing, launching and establishing profitability for a new event or publication is inherently risky and costly. Nexus Media generally incurs initial operating losses when it introduces new events and publications. Efforts to introduce new events or publications may not ultimately be successful or profitable. In addition, costs related to the development of new events and publications are accounted for as expenses, so year-to-year results may be materially adversely affected by the number and timing of new product launches. Nexus Media’s overall operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international operations. Nexus Media’s primary operations are in the United Kingdom. The following risks in international markets could have a material adverse effect on Nexus Media’s future international operations and, consequently, on its business, results of operations and financial condition: • general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; • state-imposed restrictions on the repatriation of funds; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Reliance on principal vendors could adversely affect business. Nexus Media relies on principal vendors (principally paper and print vendors and distributors) and their ability or willingness to sell products to it on favorable price and other terms. Many factors outside of Nexus Media’s control may harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these vendors to sell these products to it on such terms. If any of its principal vendors discontinues or temporarily terminates its services and it is unable to find adequate alternatives, Nexus Media may experience increased prices, interruptions and delays in services. These factors could adversely affect business. Increases in paper or postage costs could cause Nexus Media’s expenses to increase and may adversely affect business. Paper and postage are necessary expenses relating to print products and magazine distribution. Significant increases in paper prices or in postage prices may have an adverse effect on business. Nexus Media does not use forward contracts, and all of its paper supply vendor arrangements provide for price adjustments to reflect prevailing market prices. If Nexus Media cannot pass significant increases in paper and postage costs through to its customers, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our future capital requirements may exceed our current capital resources. Depending on the decisions that are made, our capital requirements may exceed our current resources. In such event, we would have to seek additional debt or equity financing from private or public sources. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, ownership dilution to existing stockholders will result, and future investors may be granted rights superior to those of existing stockholders. To the extent that we borrow funds, the lenders of such funds will have claims to our assets before there can be any distribution to our stockholders. There can be no assurance, however, that additional financing, either debt or equity, will be available from any source or, if available, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Nexus Media may not be able to protect its intellectual property. Nexus Media relies on copyright and trademark rights to protect its publishing products. Effective trademark and copyright protection may be unavailable or limited, or Nexus Media may not have applied for such 8 protection in the United States or abroad. In addition, Nexus Media has been, and may in the future be, notified of claims that its publishing products may infringe trademarks, copyrights, patents and/or other intellectual property rights of others. Such claims, including any related litigation, could result in significant expense to Nexus Media and adversely affect its cash flow, whether or not such litigation is resolved in its favor. A material weakness in the Company’s internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In connection with the audit of the financial statements of the Company for the period ended December 31, 2005, the Company and Deloitte & Touche LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, identified certain material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls. The Company discovered during the third quarter of 2005 that the lack of controls in fact resulted in errors under U.S. GAAP in the timing of recognition principally of certain sales and marketing costs relating to future events or publications during fiscal year 2004 and fiscal year 2005 by Nexus Media, resulting in a restatement of certain financial statements of Ergo as filed on Form 10-Q/A on November 22, 2005. This was determined by the Company during a review of its capitalized costs and sales and marketing expenses in the third quarter. Further, during the preparation of this annual report, it came to the Company’s attention that certain costs (principally editorial overheads), which should be classified as part of costs of revenues, were classified previously as general and administrative expenses in the financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 as filed on Form 8-K/A on June 17, 2005. This error arose because Nexus Media’s annual financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were prepared by adjusting historic predecessor statutory financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. By contrast our quarterly financial statements have been derived from our management accounts. As a result, in this annual report the Company has reclassified $5,437,000 and $6,460,000 from general and administrative expenses to cost of revenues in relation to the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 respectively. The quarterly financial information already filed is classified correctly and requires no such reclassification. As we do not currently have effective internal controls over financial reporting we may not be able to prevent or detect material misstatements. If we fail to establish the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and results of operations could be harmed, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 