Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, which we believe are the material risks of our business before making an investment decision. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on the success of Hematide, and we cannot give any assurance that it will receive regulatory approval. Recent safety concerns surrounding the use of ESAs may limit the ability to develop or successfully commercialize Hematide. Hematide, an ESA, is a new chemical entity and currently our only product candidate. We are conducting Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure. In order to commercialize Hematide, we will be required to conduct clinical trials to establish that Hematide is safe and effective which may not succeed and to obtain regulatory approvals which we may fail to do. We do not know, and are unable to predict, whether we will be able to successfully execute and complete the Phase 3 clinical trials in a timely or effective manner. The FDA, the medical community, and others have recently raised significant safety concerns relating to commercially available ESAs as a result of reports of increased mortality and side effects from a number of clinical trials. These concerns have resulted in a number of negative actions affecting the market for ESAs, particularly in oncology, including the following: •As a result of concerns associated with administering ESAs to target higher hemoglobin levels, the FDA required revised warnings, including black box warnings, be added to labels of currently marketed ESAs advising physicians to monitor hemoglobin levels and to use the lowest dose of ESA to increase the hemoglobin concentration to the lowest level sufficient to avoid the need for red blood cell transfusions. •The FDA also issued a public health advisory re-evaluating the safe use of the ESA class and convened its Oncology Drugs Advisory Committee (ODAC) in May 2007 to consider recent information on risks associated with ESAs for use in the treatment of anemia in cancer patients. The ODAC recommended that the FDA institute restrictions on the usage of currently marketed ESAs, including limitations on the treatment of certain types of cancer and the duration of treatment. •The FDA also convened a joint meeting in September 2007 of the Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs advisory committee and the Drug Safety and Risk Management advisory committee to review the risks and benefits of ESAs. •The FDA approved revised black box warnings and other safety-related product labeling changes for commercially available ESAs during 2007 and 2008. •In addition, the FDA convened another ODAC meeting in March 2008 to review data from more recent clinical trials with breast cancer patients and cervical cancer patients using currently marketed ESAs, and to consider additional action. The ODAC recommended the use of informed consents and further restrictions on the use of currently marketed ESAs for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced anemia, including the exclusion of patients with metastatic breast or head and neck cancer as well as those cancer patients potentially receiving curative treatment. •In July 2008, the FDA announced additional safety-related label restrictions for the use of commercially available ESAs including revisions to the black box warnings to provide that ESAs 17 Table of Contents are not indicated for patients undergoing chemotherapy expected to cure their cancer. In addition, the FDA required new prescribing information to assure that ESA therapy is not initiated until the hemoglobin level drops below 10 g/dL. In 2008, these factors and the uncertain regulatory climate resulted in our and Takeda's decision to suspend the development of Hematide to treat chemotherapy-induced anemia, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and future financial results. We cannot predict what further action, if any, the FDA may take, which may include, among others, additional label restrictions, the use of informed consents, further lowering of target hemoglobin levels, or even the removal of indications from the label altogether. Further, regardless of whether the FDA takes additional action or not, CMS and private payors may still decide separately to lower or discontinue reimbursement. The controversy surrounding ESAs and FDA concerns has, and may, further negatively affect patient enrollment and the cost, scope, size, risk, or timing of our clinical trials, increase the risk of achieving regulatory approval, and significantly delay commercialization of Hematide. The market for ESAs has been significantly reduced and is likely to negatively impact the commercial potential of Hematide. Our clinical development program for Hematide may not lead to a commercial drug either because we fail to demonstrate that it is safe and effective in clinical trials and we therefore fail to obtain necessary approvals from the FDA, and similar foreign regulatory agencies, or because we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance Hematide through the clinical trial process. Any failure to obtain approval of Hematide would have a material and adverse impact on our business as we would have to incur substantial expense and it would take a significant amount of time and resources to bring any future product candidate to market, if ever. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future requiring substantial additional financing. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we will be unable to complete the development and commercialization of Hematide and may need to cease operations. Even if we obtain additional financing, we may never achieve or sustain profitability We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 2001. Currently, we have no products approved for commercial sale and, to date, we have not generated any revenue from product sales. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $298.3 million. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since our inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts in order to: •complete the Phase 3 clinical trials for the Hematide renal program and other clinical development of Hematide; •prepare the submission of the New Drug Application, or NDA, for Hematide; •validate the manufacturing process for Hematide at our contract manufacturers; and •prepare to launch and commercialize Hematide, including building our own commercial organization, sales force and infrastructure to address renal markets. We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents and investments and the interest thereon, will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations through at least 12 months. However, we expect that additional capital will need to be raised to complete the development and commercialization of Hematide. The current capital markets have been extremely volatile, and biotechnology companies have been limited or unsuccessful in obtaining funding in this environment. Securing funding has been particularly difficult for companies of our size with limited capital resources. Continuation of this market may significantly limit our ability to raise funds such that that there can be no assurance we can 18 Table of Contents raise the additional funds to support our continuing operations and maintain current development and commercialization timelines for Hematide. To date, our sources of cash have been limited primarily to the proceeds from the sale of our securities to private and public investors and payments by Takeda under our collaboration agreements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to raise additional funds when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to: •assume greater risks and significantly delay, scale back, or discontinue the development and/or commercialization of Hematide; •relinquish greater rights to Hematide; •eliminate or defer formulation research and development or other manufacturing efforts that may be required to successfully develop or commercially launch Hematide; or •pursue merger and acquisition alternatives. We expect to continue to incur substantial additional operating losses for the next several years as we pursue our clinical trials, prepare for the NDA and add infrastructure and operations to support commercialization of Hematide, and potentially begin new research and development programs. Our ability to generate revenue depends heavily on our ability to successfully develop and secure regulatory approval for, and commercially launch, our product candidate, Hematide. If due to lengthy and complicated development, clinical and regulatory requirements or any other reason, we are unable to commercialize Hematide, it will be a long time before we will be able to commercialize any future product candidates, if ever. Even if we receive regulatory approval of Hematide, we must successfully commercialize Hematide before we can become profitable. We anticipate that it will be at least several years before we can commercialize Hematide and we expect to incur substantial expenses associated with our commercialization efforts as well as share in those of Takeda's even prior to obtaining approval of Hematide as well as thereafter. Accordingly, we may never generate significant revenues and, even if we do generate revenues, we may never achieve or sustain profitability. Hematide will require extensive additional clinical evaluation, regulatory approval, significant marketing efforts and substantial investment before they can provide us or our partners with any revenue. If we or our partners are unable to develop and commercialize Hematide or even if we receive marketing approval for Hematide, sales revenue therefrom may be insufficient, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, and we may be unable to continue our operations. A portion of our investments consists of auction rate securities, or ARS, and the market for those securities has recently failed to provide liquidity, and if such illiquidity continues, may negatively impact our operations. Although we have received ARS rights from UBS AG, we may not be able to recover the value of our ARS under our settlement with UBS AG. Since the filing of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, the overall ARS market has continued to deteriorate and our ARS have failed in all but a single auction. Accordingly, we recorded a $3.6 million net reduction of fair value of ARS which was recorded as an impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, the fair value balance of our ARS totaled $17.6 million. Our valuation analysis is based on dynamic market conditions and further 19 Table of Contents deterioration in the ARS markets or changes in our assumptions could lead to significant reductions in determined value thus resulting in additional impairments in future periods. We may also be required to sell these investments at prices significantly below par or assessed fair value. There can be no assurance as to the timing of when, or if the market for ARS will recover in a manner that will allow us to receive a return of some or all of our principal or to meet our liquidity needs. If we are unable to liquidate our ARS to obtain funds when needed we may be unable to fund our operations. We have entered into a settlement agreement with UBS AG relating to the failed auctions of our ARS through which UBS AG and its affiliates may provide us with additional funds based on these ARS. However, if we are unable to access the funds underlying or secured by these investments in a timely manner, we may need to find alternate sources of funding for certain of our operations, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. In accepting the settlement offer from UBS AG relating to the failed auctions of our ARS, we agreed to give up certain rights and accept certain risks. Under this settlement, UBS AG issued us Series C-2 Auction Rate Securities Rights (the "ARS Rights"). The ARS Rights are not transferable and give us the option to require UBS to repurchase at par our ARS beginning on June 30, 2010, and prior to such date, UBS has the option to buy, at par, the ARS. While we entered into the settlement in expectation that UBS AG will fulfill its obligations in connection with the ARS Rights, UBS AG may not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy these obligations. The U.S. and worldwide financial markets have recently experienced unprecedented volatility, particularly in the financial services sector. While UBS AG has stated that it believes it has the financial resources necessary to perform its obligations under the ARS Rights, UBS AG may not be able to maintain the financial resources necessary to satisfy its obligations with respect to the ARS Rights in a timely manner or at all. The obligations of UBS AG under the ARS Rights are not secured by the assets of UBS AG or otherwise and are not guaranteed by any other entity. UBS AG is not required to obtain any financing to support its obligations. If UBS AG is unable to perform its obligations under the settlement, we may have no source of liquidity or means of obtaining value for our ARS. In addition, UBS AG is a Swiss bank and all or a substantial portion of its assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for us to serve legal process on UBS AG or its management or have any of them appear in a U.S. court. Judgments based solely on the U.S. securities laws may not be enforceable in Switzerland. As a result, if UBS AG fails to fulfill its obligations, we may not be able to effectively seek recourse against it while the release of claims provided to UBS and its affiliates may still be held to be enforceable. We have initiated binding arbitration and related litigation with Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development, L.L.C., and Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc., or collectively, J&J, over ownership of intellectual property related to erythropoietin receptor, or EPO-R, agonists. An adverse result in this binding arbitration or litigation, together with adverse results in subsequent litigation J&J might then bring, could prevent us from manufacturing or commercializing Hematide in a number of countries in accordance with our current plans or could limit our ability to license third parties to do so. We have initiated binding arbitration and related litigation with J&J over the ownership of a number of U.S. and international patents and patent applications related to EPO-R agonists, or the "intellectual property in dispute." We believe that we are the sole owner or co-owner of the intellectual property in dispute. J&J, on the other hand, alleges that it is the sole owner or co-owner of the intellectual property in dispute, including several U.S. patents on which we are currently named as sole owner that relate to specified peptide compounds. Although we believe our position in this dispute is meritorious and that we have substantial defenses to J&J's counterclaims, litigation is time consuming and expensive and the outcome is inherently uncertain. A number of outcomes in the dispute are possible, including, without limitation, the possibility that we lose or do not acquire specific patents and patent rights in the ESA field, J&J obtains or retains specific patents and patent rights in the ESA field or we become liable for damages, attorneys' fees and costs. Moreover, if the arbitration panel were to 20 Table of Contents determine that J&J is the sole owner of one or more of the disputed patents, J&J may seek to assert such patents against us in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere. We believe the U.S. intellectual property in dispute does not encompass Hematide and that we can manufacture, commercialize and sell Hematide in the U.S. regardless of the outcome of this arbitration. However, if, through the ongoing arbitration or otherwise, J&J or another potential competitor obtains or possesses patents or patent rights that are deemed to encompass one or more elements of Hematide, that party could initiate proceedings, an adverse result in which could prevent us from manufacturing or commercializing Hematide, either for ourselves or with Takeda, in the U.S. If the intellectual property in dispute is deemed broad enough to cover Hematide, then under the laws applicable to most relevant jurisdictions outside the U.S., a finding of joint ownership would permit us to manufacture and sell Hematide, but may not allow us to license third parties to do so. Because our strategy is to commercialize Hematide worldwide through our partnership with Takeda, a finding of joint ownership of the patents and applications in question could materially affect our business plans outside the U.S. Within the U.S., joint ownership of a patent gives each joint owner the right to license third parties, so even if the patents in question are held to be jointly owned by us and J&J we do not believe we would be prevented from pursuing our partnership strategy for Hematide in the U.S. If the arbitration panel determines that J&J is the sole owner of one or more of the U.S. patents in the dispute that are assigned to us, J&J may seek to assert such patent against us in the U.S. Although J&J's ownership of its European patent application relating to agonist peptide dimers is subject to the pending arbitration, a patent could be issued from this application to J&J by the European Patent Office in the near future. In the J&J arbitration proceeding, we have claimed that we should be at least joint owner of this European application. If this patent issues, J&J could seek to enforce this patent against us in Europe. In many European countries, a patent cannot be asserted to stop clinical trials, but in some, a patent holder can seek to enjoin clinical trials. We are seeking to minimize the effect this might have on our development plans, but there can be no assurance that our clinical trial and manufacturing plans would not be delayed if a European patent issues to J&J. The outcome of any arbitration or litigation proceeding is inherently unpredictable. The claims and underlying facts at issue in this dispute are complex, and could necessitate prolonged discovery. Since we acquired assets from Affymax N.V. (a different company from us), discovery could uncover documents and other evidence of which we are not currently aware that are adverse to our position. We have incurred significant expense in pursuing this matter to date, and because a final decision on the arbitration and related litigation may not be reached for years, we expect we will continue to incur significant and increasing expenses for several more years, likely totaling in the millions of dollars as this matter progresses toward resolution. In addition, the efforts of our technical, legal and management personnel have been and will continue to be diverted as a result of this dispute. The arbitration panel ruling permitting the scope of discovery to include certain information relating to Hematide could increase our legal expenses significantly and may further divert the efforts of our technical, legal and management personnel. Our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of Hematide among physicians, patients, health care payors and, in the renal market, acceptance by the major operators of dialysis clinics. Hematide has not been approved or commercialized for any indication. Even if approved for sale by the appropriate regulatory authorities, physicians may not prescribe Hematide, in which case we would not generate revenue or become profitable. In particular, the therapeutic indications targeted by Hematide have been served by our competitors' products for many years. These products may now be said to be the standard of care, and it may be difficult to encourage healthcare providers to switch from products with which they and their patients have become comfortable. 21 Table of Contents The dialysis market, which is one of the largest and most established markets that Hematide will attempt to penetrate, is highly concentrated, with two companies serving a significant majority of all dialysis patients on Medicare. In addition, dialysis clinics using ESAs could incur substantial expense in administration and training if they were to switch from current ESAs to Hematide. The concentration of customers for ESAs within the dialysis market may pose a risk to our ability to obtain revenues or favorable margins on Hematide, if approved. If we cannot come to agreements with one or more of the major companies operating dialysis clinics in the U.S. or even if we do, we cannot do so prior to product launch, the revenue opportunity of Hematide could be significantly reduced. In October 2006, Amgen Inc., or Amgen, marketer of the ESAs EPOGEN and Aranesp, and Fresenius Medical Care, or Fresenius, one of the two largest operators of dialysis clinics in the U.S., announced an agreement whereby Amgen would be the sole supplier of EPO products for Fresenius' dialysis business effective immediately through the end of 2011. We are not aware of the specific terms of the Amgen-Fresenius agreement, and cannot project how it may impact the commercial opportunity for Hematide if and when it is launched. However, agreements between operators of dialysis facilities and marketers of competing ESA products could potentially limit the market opportunity for Hematide, and adversely impact our ability to generate revenues. Currently, CMS reimburses healthcare providers for use of ESAs at a rate of average sales price plus a 6% margin to the provider, or ASP plus 6%. These reimbursements rates have been declining and have been subject to concerns over the uses that will be subject to future reimbursement. In addition, Congress has recently enacted legislation entitled "Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008," or 2008 Medicare Legislation, that adopts a bundled payment system covering the cost of drugs, including ESAs, as well as dialysis services effective January 2011. Significant aspects of the 2008 Medicare Legislation and the details of the bundled payment system will be determined through additional rulemaking. We cannot be certain what reimbursement policies will be in effect at the time we seek to enter the chronic renal failure market or any other indication in the U.S., or the effect these policies may have on our ability to compete effectively, if we are ever successful in reaching the market. In addition, recent studies by manufacturers of ESAs indicate that the higher levels of hemoglobin achieved through administration of ESAs can result in a statistically significant increase in cardiovascular events. This may in turn reduce the growth or cause contraction of the market for ESAs and reduce the potential revenues for Hematide. In the pre-dialysis market, one challenge is that patients suffering from anemia may not access health care resources to treat their condition for some time following its onset. As a result, the available pre-dialysis market may be limited by the overall proportion of patients who are diagnosed with the condition, how early these patients are diagnosed, and at what point they begin treatment. Additionally, reaching and educating the doctors who treat pre-dialysis patients may be difficult, as these patients are spread thinly across a variety of treatment settings. Primary care physicians that treat pre-dialysis patients may not be comfortable with reimbursement procedures for injectible products and thus delay or restrict treatment with ESAs. In addition, market acceptance of Hematide by physicians, healthcare payors and patients will depend on a number of additional factors, including: •the clinical indications for which Hematide is approved; •acceptance by physicians and patients of Hematide as a safe and effective treatment; •perceived advantages over alternative treatments; •the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; •the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties; 22 Table of Contents •the continued use of ESA treatments generally for anemia; •relative convenience and ease of administration; and •the prevalence and severity of side effects. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less costly than Hematide, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We face competition from established and emerging pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than Hematide or any other future products that we may develop and commercialize. In addition, significant delays in the development of Hematide could allow our competitors to bring new products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize Hematide. Competitors may also reduce the price of their ESAs in order to gain market share. These price reductions could force us to lower the price of Hematide in order to compete effectively, resulting in lower revenues and reduced margins on the sales of Hematide. We anticipate that, if approved, Hematide would compete with EPOGEN and Aranesp, which are both marketed by Amgen, PROCRIT, which is marketed by Ortho Biotech Products, L.P. (a subsidiary of J&J), NeoRecormon and Mircera, which are currently marketed outside the U.S. by Roche. Aranesp is approved for once-monthly dosing for treatment of anemia in pre-dialysis patients in Europe. In the U.S., Amgen is reportedly in the process of seeking approval for once-monthly dosing of Aranesp for treatment of anemia in pre-dialysis patients. If Amgen is successful in obtaining approval for once-monthly dosing or our competitors' products are administered in practice on a less frequent basis than prescribed by their labels, the market for Hematide may be decreased. In addition, Roche's Mircera has recently launched in Europe. Mircera reportedly has greater plasma stability and is longer acting than any rEPO product that is currently on the market. As a result of the patent litigation between Roche and Amgen, Mircera has been found to infringe several U.S. patents owned by Amgen and has been enjoined from being sold in the U.S. until the expiration of these patents in 2013. If Mircera enters the U.S. market before Hematide or upon its entry, we believe that Mircera will be in direct competition with Hematide, and therefore could potentially limit the market for Hematide, because of its ability to be longer acting. In addition, Merck recently announced plans to develop its own version of EPO in yeast cells instead of mammalian cells which, if successful, may permit Merck to launch its product prior to the expiration of Amgen's U.S. patents. Another potential competitor, FibroGen, Inc., or FibroGen, is developing small molecules designed to promote the production of greater levels of naturally-occurring EPO in patients. The introduction of biosimilars into the ESA market, or new market entrants, could also prove to be a significant threat to us as it could not only limit the market for Hematide, but could also drive down the price of ESAs. Most of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Current marketers of ESAs also have the ability to bundle sales of existing ESA products with their other products, potentially disadvantaging Hematide, which we plan to sell on a stand-alone basis. Established pharmaceutical and large biotechnology companies may invest heavily to discover and develop novel compounds or drug delivery technology that could make Hematide obsolete. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through strategic partnerships with large and established companies. These third parties may compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well 23 Table of Contents as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent or other intellectual property protection, receiving FDA approval, or discovering, developing and commercializing products before we do. The U.S. market opportunity for Hematide may deteriorate significantly after the entry of biosimilars in the U.S. The last significant U.S. patent for epoetin alfa, a version of short-acting rEPO, expires in 2013. Patents related to epoetin alfa expired in the E.U. in 2004. Biosimilars of short-acting rEPO are currently being developed or launched in and for various markets outside the U.S., including the E.U. Short-acting rEPO biosimilars are already being sold in various territories outside the U.S. and the E.U. We expect that biosimilars, including rEPO, will be sold at a significant discount to existing branded products when they are launched in the U.S. and the E.U. The introduction of biosimilars into the ESA market could prove to be a significant threat to Hematide if they are able to demonstrate bioequivalence to existing ESAs. Biosimilars will constitute additional competition for Hematide and could drive its price and sales volume down, which may adversely affect our revenues. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials or the submission of our NDA for Hematide could severely harm our business. Hematide, as well as any other product candidate we choose to pursue, must undergo extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials as a condition to submission of an NDA and regulatory approval. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, complicated, and take many years to complete. The rate of accrual of cardiovascular events could affect the duration of our Phase 3 clinical program, which is currently planned for 52 week treatment period of the last patient. If the cardiovascular events accrue at a lower rate than estimated, the outcome of the safety endpoint analysis may not meet the pre-defined non-inferiority criteria due to insufficient events causing a possible failure of our clinical program. In order to obtain additional data to compensate for a lower than estimated cardiovascular event rate, the Phase 3 clinical program may need to be extended or additional studies may need to be conducted, if even feasible, which could delay the development of Hematide and the achievement of milestones from Takeda. Even if the cardiovascular events accrue at the estimated rate, we could still fail to establish that Hematide is non-inferior to the comparator drugs upon analysis of the data from our Phase 3 clinical program. Further, our Phase 3 clinical program could be suspended or terminated prior to completion based on safety or other concerns, including recommendations of the data monitoring committee, which will be meeting periodically to review the interim safety data from our trials. In addition, the completion of clinical trials for Hematide and the submission of our NDA may be delayed or fail for many other reasons, including: •safety issues, including serious adverse events associated with Hematide, and concerns surrounding use of ESAs generally; •difficulties of executing our Phase 3 clinical program, for Hematide, which is large and complex, involving numerous third parties, approximately 2,600 patients and 400 sites in the U.S. and Europe, compliance with a variety of government regulations, and a number of significant new initiatives and systems for which we do not have any prior experience implementing, including the adjudication of cardiovascular events by an independent review committee; •regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to continue clinical trials or we may suspend or terminate such trials for various reasons, including recommendations of the data monitoring committee, exposure of the participating patients to unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements; 24 Table of Contents •our inability, or the inability of our collaborators or licensees, to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials of a quality or quantity sufficient to complete our preclinical studies, clinical trials or registration stability studies; •risks associated with non-inferiority trial designs, which are studies devised and statistically powered to show that the test drug is not inferior to the control drug; •risks associated with data integrity and difficulty in obtaining complete and accurate data on a timely basis which may result from our unusual Phase 3 trial design whereby all patients end treatment in each trial in the same timeframe or for a variety of other reasons, including shortage of resources, failure to follow the clinical trial protocols, inadequate monitoring or training of sites, or problems maintaining contact with patients after treatment; •poor effectiveness or safety concerns during clinical trials; •the failure of patients to complete clinical trials due to the length of our clinical program, side effects, dissatisfaction with Hematide or other reasons; •governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and •varying interpretation of data by FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. Patients participating in the trials may not live through completion of the trial or may suffer adverse medical effects unrelated to treatment with Hematide. The results from earlier preclinical testing and prior clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in other preclinical models, which we are continuing to conduct, or later and larger clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing promising results in earlier clinical trials. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of Hematide will prevent us from receiving regulatory approval and will have a material adverse impact our business. It is possible that Hematide will not complete clinical trials in any markets. We also do not know and are unable to predict whether the data arising from the clinical trials for Hematide will be satisfactory to the FDA and, if not, whether the FDA will require us to conduct additional trials or alter the scope, size or design of such trials, which could result in additional delays in bringing Hematide to market, if ever. Accordingly, we may not receive the regulatory approvals needed to market Hematide. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials or submitting our NDA to the FDA would delay commercialization of Hematide and severely harm our business and financial condition. Hematide is our only product candidate and we may not develop any other product candidates for the foreseeable future. Hematide is the main focus of our business, which we expect to be the case for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, until we are able to obtain additional financing and resources to develop and commercialize Hematide, we are unlikely to be able to successfully discover or develop any other product candidates. Further, we have had to reduce our research capabilities and efforts, including the elimination of certain research programs even some activities related to the support of Hematide. We have limited ability and resources to pursue internal research programs and strategic collaborations for the development of new products. Research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not any product candidates are ultimately identified. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: •the financial and internal resources may be insufficient and are needed for Hematide; 25 Table of Contents •the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates; •competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete; •a product candidate may on further study be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory approval; •a product candidate may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; or •a product candidate may not be accepted by patients, the medical community or third-party payors. The success of Hematide is dependent upon the strength and performance of our collaboration with Takeda. If we fail to maintain our existing collaboration with Takeda, such termination would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to develop Hematide and our business. If we fail to enter into new, strategic collaborations with other future product candidates we pursue, we may have to reduce or delay our product candidate development efforts or increase our expenditures. The maintenance and successful performance of our strategic collaboration with Takeda for development of Hematide is an important part of our business model. Our collaboration with Takeda is extremely complex particularly with respect to financial provisions, allocations of responsibilities, and the respective rights of the parties with respect to decision making. Accordingly, significant aspects of the development and commercialization of Hematide require Takeda's agreement or approval prior to implementation, which can cause delays. Further, if we are not able to reach agreement with Takeda or maintain our existing collaboration with Takeda to develop and commercialize Hematide, our business could be severely adversely affected. Takeda has the ability to terminate each of the collaboration agreements upon an uncured material breach by us or even in the absence of a material breach with six-months' notice. Currently, Takeda could provide us notice of termination of either or both of our collaboration agreements, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the advancement of our Hematide program and our business. The suspension of the Hematide oncology program may increase the likelihood that Takeda terminates the collaboration or affect the resources Takeda is willing to commit to Hematide. Through the collaboration, Takeda currently provides development funding and performs important functions, including conduct of certain clinical trials and manufacturing activities, and is expected to pay us milestone payments upon the completion of certain events, all of which would be unavailable to us in the case of an early termination of the collaboration. Even in the absence of a termination, Takeda's failure to provide funding or perform its obligations on a timely basis may have a material adverse effect on our business and the success of Hematide. In addition, if we fail to maintain the Takeda collaboration or establish and maintain additional strategic collaborations for any other potential product candidates that we may pursue: •the development of Hematide or future product candidates may be terminated or delayed; •our cash expenditures related to development of our current or future product candidates would increase significantly and we may need to seek additional financing; •we may be required to hire additional employees or otherwise develop expertise, such as sales and marketing expertise, for which we have not budgeted; •we will bear all of the risk related to the development of each of our current and future product candidates; and •we may be unable to meet demand for any future products that we may develop. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. 26 Table of Contents Reimbursement may not be available for Hematide, which would materially diminish our sales and our ability to sell our products profitably. Market acceptance and sales of Hematide will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by future health care reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for Hematide. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, Hematide. We have not commenced efforts to have our Hematide reimbursed by government or third-party payors. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize Hematide. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals in recent years to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell Hematide profitably. These proposals include prescription drug benefit proposals for Medicare beneficiaries and measures that would limit or prohibit payments for certain medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control. Legislation creating a prescription drug benefit and making certain changes in Medicaid reimbursement has recently been enacted. In particular, in December 2003, then President Bush signed into law new Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation that changed the methodology used to calculate reimbursement for certain drugs such as Hematide. In addition, the legislation directed the Secretary of Health and Human Services to contract with procurement organizations to purchase physician-administered drugs from the manufacturers and provided physicians with the option to obtain drugs through these organizations as an alternative to purchasing from the manufacturers, which some physicians may find advantageous. In addition, in response to the FDA's recent black box warning and public health advisories, CMS has recently significantly restricted coverage of ESAs. In July 2007, CMS issued its National Coverage Decision Memorandum for Use of Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agents in Cancer and Neoplastic Conditions, or the National Coverage Decision, that determined that ESA treatment was not reasonable or necessary for certain medical conditions, including any anemia of cancer not related to cancer treatment, among others. The National Coverage Decision also established the ESA reimbursement policy for Medicare and other government beneficiaries who are treated for chemotherapy-induced anemia and contains a coverage restriction for hemoglobin levels greater than 10g/dL, which has had a material adverse effect on the use of ESAs. In July 2007, CMS also issued revisions to its reimbursement policies for the use of ESAs for end stage renal disease in cases where hemoglobin levels exceed 13 g/dL and also decreased the monthly dosing limits. In July 2008, CMS announced that ESAs are a potential topic for another National Coverage Decision citing adverse effects in cancer and chronic kidney disease patients, including dialysis patients while noting the large costs but uncertain benefits. Independent of any additional action the FDA may take as to ESAs, CMS may further decrease coverage which could have a materially negative impact on the size of the ESA market in the United States and reduce the overall size of the market Hematide is expected to compete in at the time of launch. As a result of these reimbursement and other legislative proposals and the trend towards managed health care in the U.S., third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. In addition, major third-party payors have begun to follow CMS's restrictive reimbursement policies, which has further decreased the market for ESAs. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse patients for their use of newly approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. 27 Table of Contents CMS policies are constantly changing and we cannot guarantee that they will not decrease, limit or deny reimbursement of Hematide in the future. CMS, the agency within the Department of Health and Human Services that manages Medicare and will be responsible for reimbursement of the cost of Hematide administered to Medicare beneficiaries, has asserted the authority of Medicare not to cover particular drugs if it determines that they are not "reasonable and necessary" for Medicare beneficiaries, or to cover them at a lesser rate, compared to drugs that CMS considers to be therapeutically comparable. We cannot be certain that CMS will not decrease, limit or deny reimbursement of Hematide for any therapeutic indication we may pursue. As the costs of the Medicare program continue to grow, CMS may be compelled to make difficult decisions regarding the trade-offs of supporting the reimbursement of certain public health expenditures over others. Depending on methods CMS uses to calculate the cost-benefit of treatments competing for share of the Medicare budget, ESAs (including Hematide) may not be considered to offer sufficient overall health benefit to justify reimbursement at levels that will allow us to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, as a result of the recent safety concerns relating to ESAs, CMS recently announced policies significantly restricting the coverage of ESAs and has proposed another National Coverage Decision on the topic that may further negatively affect reimbursement of ESAs. CMS has instituted dramatic Medicare reimbursement changes in the past that adversely impacted the businesses of companies in other segments of the healthcare industry, and we cannot determine that CMS will not do the same in the markets in which we operate. Medicare reimbursement policies under a new bundled payment system could create disincentives for use of ESAs. CMS currently reimburses healthcare providers for use of ESAs at ASP plus 6%. However, the 2008 Medicare Legislation replaces ASP plus 6% reimbursement with a new bundled payment system to be implemented commencing in January 2011. Although significant aspects of the bundled payment system have yet to be established, providers are expected to be reimbursed a fixed amount per patient. We cannot guarantee that Hematide will be reimbursed by CMS in a method that will support physician adoption and depending upon the details of the bundled payment system that are ultimately implemented, may not be favorable to the entry of new ESAs such as Hematide. In fact, a capitated reimbursement payment methodology may create incentives for significantly lower utilization or dosing of ESAs, including Hematide, and reduce the commercial potential for Hematide. We rely on third parties to conduct preclinical and clinical trials for Hematide, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. We rely on contract research organizations, contractors and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise conducting clinical trials. We compete with larger companies for the resources of these third parties. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with these contract research organizations or contractors on acceptable terms. These third parties generally may terminate their engagements with us at any time and having to enter into alternative arrangements would delay development and 28 Table of Contents commercialization of Hematide. As a result, we can control their activities only within certain limits, and they will devote only a certain amount of their time to Hematide. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of Hematide. Significant challenges remain with us and Takeda to manufacture Hematide on a commercial scale. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture and supply may cause delays in, or prevent us from, successfully developing and commercializing Hematide. In accordance with the terms of our collaboration, Takeda has responsibility for manufacture of finished product and as a consequence, we have limited ability to control risks associated with that portion of the manufacturing process. The Hematide manufacturing process is a complicated, time-consuming process. Manufacture of Hematide active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, involves long lead times. We do not currently have the infrastructure or capability internally to manufacture the Hematide needed to conduct our clinical trials or to commercialize Hematide. We are and will continue to rely upon contract manufacturers to produce our clinical trial materials and in the future commercial supplies of Hematide. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers, partners and other third parties to produce sufficient quantities of Hematide for use in our clinical trials. If our contract manufacturers or other third parties fail to deliver materials for the manufacture of Hematide or Hematide itself for clinical use or for our registration stability studies on a timely basis, with sufficient quality and at commercially reasonable prices, and if we fail to find replacement manufacturers or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities, we may be required to delay or suspend clinical trials or our planned NDA filing or otherwise discontinue development and production. Hematide is a new chemical entity and the manufacturing process for commercial scale production remains to be validated at any manufacturer in accordance with applicable regulatory guidelines and as such, there are risks associated with the full scale manufacture of the API. Similar challenges exist for the manufacture of finished product that must meet a variety of regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and continue to change. Any of these risks and others may prevent or delay us from successfully developing Hematide, including the following: •stability issues including the potential failure of product registration studies to establish sufficient stability to obtain adequate shelf life or room temperature stability; •cost overruns, process scale-up, process reproducibility; •difficulties in maintaining or upgrading equipment and manufacturing facilities on a timely basis; and •regulatory issues or changes that may cause significant modifications in the manufacturing process or facilities. We have transferred responsibility of manufacture of Hematide finished product to Takeda and we therefore have limited control and ability to address risks associated with that portion of the manufacturing process. Further, some of suppliers and manufacturing arrangements, including the provision of bulk poly(ethylene) glycol reagent for the manufacture of Hematide from Nektar Therapeutics AL, Corporation, or Nektar, are currently single-sourced, leaving us at greater risk of supply interruptions and potential delays. 29 Table of Contents We, Takeda, and our third-party manufacturers are required to comply with applicable FDA manufacturing practice regulations. If there is any failure by us, Takeda or one of our third-party manufacturers or suppliers to maintain compliance with these regulations, the production of Hematide could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. Additionally, our third-party manufacturers must pass a pre-approval inspection before we can obtain regulatory approval for Hematide. If for any reason these third parties are unable or unwilling to perform under our agreements or enter into new agreements with us, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with them in an expeditious manner. We could also experience manufacturing delays if our third-party manufacturers, Takeda or suppliers give greater priority to the production of other products over Hematide. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of Hematide or components thereof in a timely manner from third parties could delay clinical trials or result in product shortages and prevent us from developing and commercializing Hematide in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. Further, our lack of experience providing reliable supply of product may deter health care providers and dialysis centers from selecting or otherwise switching to Hematide from our competitors' products. The commercial success of Hematide depends in part on the development and marketing efforts of Takeda, over which we have limited control. If our collaborations are unsuccessful, our ability to develop and commercialize products through our collaborations, and to generate future revenue from the sale of these products, would be significantly reduced. Our dependence on Takeda for our global collaboration with Hematide and our other collaboration arrangements, subjects us to a number of risks. Our ability to develop and commercialize drugs that we develop with our collaboration partners depends on our collaboration partners' abilities to establish the safety and efficacy of Hematide, obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of Hematide once commercialized. Under our collaboration with Takeda, we co-develop and co-commercialize Hematide in the U.S. Because we share responsibility with Takeda for clinical development activities in the U.S., the progress of the Hematide program is dependent on the efforts of Takeda of which we have no control. In fact, during 2008, Takeda has taken responsibility for conducting several clinical trials including among others, a study in patients with peritoneal dialysis and a study involving the conversion of Aranesp-treated chronic renal patients (on dialysis and not on dialysis). Accordingly, failure of Takeda to act in a timely manner may delay our ability to develop Hematide in accordance with our timelines. Takeda holds an exclusive license to develop and commercialize Hematide outside of the U.S. and any progress and commercial success in those territories is dependent solely on Takeda's efforts and commitment to the program. Takeda may delay, reduce or terminate development efforts relating to Hematide, independently develop products that compete with Hematide, or fail to commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of Hematide. Competing products or programs, either developed by Takeda or to which our collaboration partners have rights or acquire in the future, may result in our partners' withdrawal of support for Hematide. In the event that Takeda fails to diligently develop or commercialize Hematide, we may have the right to terminate our partner's rights but we may choose not to as we will not receive any future revenue from Hematide or even if we do, we may not be able to find another partner requiring us to commercialize Hematide on our own, which is likely to result in significant additional expense and delay. Business combinations, significant changes in business strategy, litigation and/or financial difficulties may also adversely affect the willingness or ability of Takeda to complete its obligations under our collaboration agreements. If Takeda fails to perform in the manner we expect, our potential to develop and commercialize products Hematide and to generate future revenue would be significantly reduced. If a conflict of interest arises between us and Takeda, it may act in its own self-interest and not in the interest of our company or our stockholders. If Takeda were to breach or terminate the collaboration agreements with us or otherwise fail to perform its obligations thereunder in a timely 30 Table of Contents manner, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of Hematide could be delayed or terminated. It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of Hematide and any other product candidates we may pursue, their use and the methods used to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. Our ability to protect Hematide from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importation by third parties is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents, or have trade secrets that cover these activities. We have licensed from third parties rights to numerous issued patents and patent applications. The rights that we acquire from licensors or collaborators are protected by patents and proprietary rights owned by them, and we rely on the patent protection and rights established or acquired by them. The remaining patent terms may not provide meaningful protection. Moreover, third parties may challenge the patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights held by our licensors or collaborators. We generally do not unilaterally control the prosecution of patent applications licensed from third parties. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we may exercise over internally developed intellectual property. Even if we are able to obtain issued patents, any patent may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. The existence of a patent will not necessarily protect us from competition or from claims of a third party that our products infringe their issued patents. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar drugs or products that do not infringe our patents, or produce drugs in countries where we have not applied for patent protection or that do not respect our patents. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our licensed patents, in our patents or in third-party patents or applications therefor. The degree of future protection to be afforded by our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: •others may be able to make similar compounds but that are not covered by the claims of our patents, or for which we are not licensed under our license agreements; •we or our licensors or collaborators might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent application or the pending patent applications and issued patents of our licensors; •we or our licensors or collaborators might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; •others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights; •it is possible that our pending patent applications will not result in issued patents; •our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors or collaborators may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; •we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or 31 Table of Contents •the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Our research and development collaborators may have rights to publish data and other information to which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals or entities to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. The ability of these individuals or entities to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations. These contractual provisions may be insufficient or inadequate to protect our trade secrets and may impair our patent rights. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be jeopardized. We expect to incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use, our technology. Our ability, and that of our commercial partners, to commercialize any approved product will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, enforce those patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We have filed multiple U.S. patent applications and foreign counterparts related to Hematide and other programs as well as underlying platform technologies and may file additional U.S. and foreign patent applications related thereto. There can be no assurance that any issued patents we own or control will provide sufficient protection to conduct our business as presently conducted or as proposed to be conducted, that any patents will issue from the patent applications owned by us, or that we will remain free from infringement claims by third parties. The failure to obtain adequate patent protection would have a material adverse effect on us and may adversely affect our ability to enter into, or affect the terms of, any arrangement for the further development and marketing of any product. There can also be no assurance that patents owned by us will not be challenged by others. We are currently involved in binding arbitration with J&J, which could result in one or more patents being issued to these parties for technology that we jointly or solely own. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings, including interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and comparable proceedings before similar agencies in other countries in connection with any claims that may arise in the future. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions about the patentability of our inventions and products, as well as about the enforceability, validity or scope of protection afforded by our patents. Patent applications in the U.S. and elsewhere are published only after 18 months from the priority date. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Therefore, patent applications relating to products similar to Hematide and any future products may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. In the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in 32 Table of Contents defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing related product development and commercialization and may be subject to damage awards. Our ongoing litigation is described in the sections entitled "Business—Intellectual Property" and "Legal Proceedings." We have incurred substantial expense as a result of our litigation and arbitration proceedings and we expect to incur even greater expense in the future. In addition, any future patent litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings will result in additional expense and distraction of our personnel. An adverse outcome in such litigation or proceedings may expose us or our collaborators to loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we may be restricted or prevented from manufacturing, developing or commercializing Hematide or from developing, manufacturing and selling any future products in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. If it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent, we could be compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages. Virtually all of our competitors are able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations, in-license technology that we need, out-license our existing technologies or enter into collaborations that would assist in commercially exploiting any technology. If we are unable either to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize Hematide successfully. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. To commercialize Hematide, we must either develop internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we decide to market Hematide directly, we must commit significant financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize Hematide directly or indirectly with Takeda include: •our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and •unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. If we, or Takeda through our collaboration, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing Hematide, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. To the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market Hematide, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control. In that event, our product revenues would likely be lower than if we marketed and sold our products directly. 33 Table of Contents If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize Hematide or any other future product candidates. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff, particularly Arlene Morris, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Anne-Marie Duliege, our Chief Medical Officer. The loss of services of Ms. Morris, Dr. Duliege, or one or more of our other members of senior management could delay or prevent the successful completion of our planned clinical trials or the commercialization of Hematide. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our clinical development and commercial activities. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. Each of our officers and key employees may terminate his/her employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. As we evolve from a company primarily involved in research and development to a company also involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. As we advance Hematide through clinical trials, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize Hematide and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts effectively, manage our clinical trials effectively and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company. Our operations may be adversely impacted by our exposure to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates. Some of our costs and expenses associated with our clinical trials are denominated in foreign currencies. We are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates with Europe due to agreements with third-party vendors and clinical sites located in Europe. When the United States dollar weakens against these currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense increases, and when the dollar strengthens against these currencies, the dollar value of the foreign-currency denominated expense decreases. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a weakening of the United States dollar, may adversely affect our results of operations. We currently do not hedge against our foreign currency risks. Risks Related to Our Industry The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of Hematide. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of drug candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other countries, and 34 Table of Contents regulations may differ from country to country. Neither we nor Takeda is permitted to market Hematide in the U.S. until we receive approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA, from the FDA. We have not received marketing approval for Hematide. Further, we have not previously prepared an NDA submission, which involves compliance with governmental regulations and successful completion of a number of significant and complicated undertakings for which we do not have any prior experience implementing. Obtaining approval of an NDA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs. Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. We initiated our Phase 3 clinical studies for Hematide following extensive discussion with the FDA on the design of the program. Based on the nature of these discussions and guidance from the FDA in light of the current regulatory environment, we did not enter into a special protocol assessment, or SPA, with the FDA for our Phase 3 clinical trials for Hematide. Nonetheless, in some instances a SPA could provide more assurance that the design, clinical endpoints, and statistical end analyses resulting from these trials would be acceptable to the FDA to support regulatory approval. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: •a drug candidate may not be deemed safe or effective; •FDA officials may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; •The FDA might not approve our or our third-party manufacturer's processes or facilities; or •The FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. Even if we receive regulatory approval for Hematide, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize Hematide. Any regulatory approvals that we or Takeda receive for Hematide may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if the FDA approves Hematide, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the drug, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. The FDA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of Hematide. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our future products and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. 35 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad through our Takeda collaboration. We intend to co-market Hematide in the U.S, and have exclusively licensed Takeda to develop Hematide in international markets. In order to market Hematide in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. Foreign regulatory approvals may not be obtained on a timely basis, if at all. We or Takeda, as part of our Hematide collaboration, may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. Foreign governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We intend to seek approval to market Hematide in the U.S. and, through our Takeda collaboration, in foreign jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our product. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of Hematide to other available therapies or a clinical trial that studies pharmacoeconomic benefits. If reimbursement of Hematide is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products comply with these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages. We are uninsured for third-party contamination injury. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of Hematide. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of conducting clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize Hematide. We may be held liable if any product we develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of Hematide. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for Hematide; •injury to our reputation; 36 Table of Contents •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •costs of related litigation; •diversion of management's attention and resources; •substantial monetary awards to patients; •product recalls; •loss of revenue; and •the inability to commercialize Hematide. Our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop. We currently carry product liability insurance covering our clinical studies in the amount of $11 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for the expenses or losses we may suffer. In addition, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to remain highly volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. For the 52 weeks ended March 2, 2009, the price ranged between a high of $22.62 per share and a low of $8.52 per share. Our stock is expected to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •actual or anticipated results from, and any delays in, our clinical trials; •actual or anticipated changes in our capital resources and our ability to obtain financing and the terms thereof; •actual or anticipated actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to ESAs generally or specifically as to Hematide; •new products or services introduced or announced by us or our collaboration partners, or our competitors, including Roche's Mircera, and the timing of these introductions or announcements; •issuance of patents to competitors, including the expected issuance of patents to J&J in Europe; •developments in and the outcome of our litigation with J&J, including both substantive and procedural rulings by the arbitration panel; •actual or anticipated regulatory approvals of Hematide or competing products; •actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to clinical trials, manufacturing process or sales and marketing activities; •changes in laws or regulations applicable to Hematide, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals; •the success of our development efforts and clinical trials; •the success of our efforts to discover, acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates; 37 Table of Contents •developments concerning our collaborations, including but not limited to those with our sources of manufacturing supply and our commercialization partners; •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; •announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; •actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •conditions or trends in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •general economic and market conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; •changes in the market valuations of similar companies; •sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future; •additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; •developments relating to proprietary rights held by us or our competitors; •disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; •trading volume of our common stock; and •sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of March 2, 2009, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders, together with their respective affiliates, owned approximately 59% of our voting stock. Accordingly, these stockholders will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our board of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the fair market value of our common stock. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. During our review of the results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, we identified a material weakness in the operation of our internal controls over financial reporting, as defined in Public Company Accounting 38 Table of Contents Oversight Board Standard No. 5, in connection with the completeness and accuracy of clinical trial expense. As of December 31, 2008, this material weakness has been fully remediated. While no material weaknesses were identified as of December 31, 2008, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. There can be no assurance that we will successfully and timely report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future periods. If we do experience a material weakness in future periods, then investor confidence, our stock price and our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, if any, within an organization have been detected. We continue to implement, improve and refine our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market that were previously restricted from sale, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In the event that we do raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, the dilution represented by the additional shares of our equity securities in the public market could cause our stock price to fall, in which case you may not be able to sell your shares of our equity securities at a price equal to or above the price you paid to acquire them. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we were to face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: •authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; •limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and 39 Table of Contents •our board of directors is classified, consisting of three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms, with each class consisting as nearly as possible of one third of the total number of directors. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on December 17, 2008 relating to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2007. The SEC requested additional information and provided comments related to (i) our revenue recognition policies, (ii) our income taxes, and (iii) our remediation efforts related to enhancement of our financial controls. We responded to the SEC on January 9, 2009 and received a follow-up letter from the SEC on February 19, 2009 requesting additional information and clarification relating our revenue recognition policies and our income taxes. As we only recently submitted another response to the SEC on March 10, 2009 immediately prior to the filing of this Form 10-K, we will be continuing to work with the SEC to resolve the remaining comments. 