Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks, some of which are set forth below to enable readers to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, many of the risks and uncertainties applicable to the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider these risk factors as each of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on the success of peginesatide. Peginesatide is a new chemical entity and currently our only product candidate. We cannot give any assurance the development program for peginesatide will be successful or completed in a timely or effective manner. Our previously announced Phase 3 results present challenges to our ability to obtain regulatory approval for peginesatide particularly in view of the heightened concerns surrounding safety of erythropoiesis stimulating agents, or ESAs. Our failure to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of peginesatide to the satisfaction of the United States, or U.S., Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, will prevent us from receiving regulatory approval and would have a material and adverse impact on our business. Even if the FDA approves our New Drug Application, or NDA, the length of the review process may be longer than anticipated or the FDA may impose requirements, conditions and restrictions that could significantly increase costs or delay and limit our ability to successfully commercialize peginesatide or otherwise severely harm our business. Peginesatide, an ESA, is a new chemical entity and currently our only product candidate. In order to commercialize peginesatide, we will be required to establish that peginesatide is sufficiently safe and effective to obtain regulatory approvals, which we may fail to do. In late June 2010, we announced preliminary top-line results from the peginesatide Phase 3 clinical program for the treatment of patients with anemia associated with chronic kidney disease. Our Phase 3 clinical program included four open-label, randomized controlled clinical trials. Two of these trials, called PEARL 1 and PEARL 2, were conducted in non-dialysis patients and designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of peginesatide compared to darbepoetin alfa to correct anemia and maintain hemoglobin in a corrected range over time. The other two trials, called EMERALD 1 and EMERALD 2, were conducted in dialysis patients and designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of peginesatide and its ability to maintain hemoglobin levels in a corrected range compared to epoetin alpha or epoetin beta when switched to peginesatide. Analysis of efficacy and safety for all of the Phase 3 studies were based primarily on assessments of non-inferiority to the comparator drugs. The primary efficacy endpoint, the mean change in hemoglobin from baseline, in each of the four Phase 3 studies met the statistical criteria for non-inferiority. In addition, peginesatide met the statistical criterion for non-inferiority for the assessment of safety for the cardiovascular composite safety endpoint, or CSE, which was composed of death, stroke, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, 19 Table of Contents unstable angina and arrhythmia from a pooled safety database across the four Phase 3 trials. However, some differences were observed when secondary analyses were conducted, including a difference in a subgroup analysis conducted in the PEARL trials where the frequency of CSE events was higher in the peginesatide group relative to the comparator in non-dialysis patients, as previously described in our Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 21, 2010 and in Part I, Item 1. Business of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The differences observed in the Phase 3 secondary analyses present risks to our ability to obtain regulatory approval for peginesatide particularly in view of the heightened concerns surrounding the safety of ESAs. Based on our discussions with the FDA regarding the regulatory path for peginesatide in light of the Phase 3 results, we submitted a NDA for treatment of anemia in chronic kidney disease patients on dialysis in May 2011. Although the NDA has been filed and accepted for review, any negative perception of peginesatide's safety relative to other ESAs would significantly limit the likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval for peginesatide. The issues arising from the Phase 3 results have caused significant delay and may negatively impact the likelihood of regulatory approval, and may significantly increase the likelihood of FDA requirements, restrictions and conditions if regulatory approval is obtained. Any or all of these factors may significantly reduce the ultimate commercial potential of peginesatide. Regardless of whether peginesatide met the statistical criteria for non-inferiority to the comparator drugs, peginesatide could still fail to establish that it is sufficiently safe for regulatory approval for any indication. In addition to data from clinical trials, extensive data from pre-clinical studies, including carcinogenicity studies, has been submitted as part of the NDA. As peginesatide is the first ESA to undergo carcinogenicity studies, the regulatory requirements and standards for review remain uncertain and may increase the risk for regulatory approval. The results from earlier pre-clinical testing and prior clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in other pre-clinical models, later clinical trials or in a practice setting. In addition, the approval of our NDA may be delayed or fail for many reasons, including: •safety issues, including serious adverse events associated with peginesatide, and concerns surrounding use of ESAs generally; •difficulties arising from administration, data gathering and analysis of our large and complex Phase 3 clinical program for peginesatide, which involved numerous third parties, approximately 2,600 patients and over 300 sites in the U.S. and Europe, compliance with a variety of government regulations, and a number of significant new initiatives and processes for which we did not have any prior experience implementing, including the adjudication of cardiovascular events by an independent review committee; •risks associated with non-inferiority trials, which are studies devised and statistically powered to show that the test drug is not inferior to the comparator drug; •risks associated with data integrity and difficulty in obtaining complete and accurate data on a timely basis which may result from our large and complex Phase 3 trial design for a variety of other reasons, including shortage of resources, delays in data entry, inaccurate or inconsistent data entry, failure to follow the clinical trial protocols, inadequate monitoring or training of sites, inadequate oversight of third party clinical research organizations, or CROs, delays or failures to establish adequate procedures, remediations or corrective actions that regulatory agencies may not find sufficient, problems maintaining contact with patients after treatment or as a consequence of the open-label, non-inferiority design of the Phase 3 trials; •suspension or termination of clinical trials for various reasons, including exposure of the participating patients to unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements; 20 Table of Contents •manufacturing issues or failure to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials of sufficient quality; •inadequate effectiveness or safety concerns arising from clinical trials or pre-clinical studies, including the carcinogenicity studies; •the failure of patients to complete clinical trials due to death or the length of our clinical program, side effects, dissatisfaction with peginesatide or other reasons including adverse medical effects unrelated to treatment with peginesatide; •our lack of experience as an organization in obtaining regulatory approvals; •governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and •varying interpretation of data by FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. Further analysis, regulatory review or inspections or additional data may reveal further issues associated with the Phase 3 results. For example, negative imbalances in safety events, which could give rise to safety concerns whether or not they are statistically significant, or potential issues surrounding data quality, which may be of greater concern for non-inferiority designed trials, may negatively impact the ultimate acceptability of the data for regulatory approval. As noted in the FDA's March 2010 draft Guidance for Industry Non-inferiority Clinical Trials, there is a critical need for particular attention to study quality and conduct when planning and executing a non-inferiority study, as poor quality can sometimes lead to an apparent finding of non-inferiority that is incorrect. The FDA appears to be increasing its focus on clinical data quality which may delay or increase the risk of failure to obtain regulatory approval. For example, in late 2009, Basilea Pharmaceutica AG failed to obtain approval for ceftobiprole from the FDA as the agency cited unreliable or unverifiable data and inadequate monitoring on the part of sponsor Johnson & Johnson as the basis for the agency's decision. As the sponsor of the peginesatide clinical trials, the FDA holds us accountable for oversight of our clinical trials, including monitoring performed by our CROs. To the extent the FDA determines that we failed to properly oversee our clinical trials and the CROs, the FDA may find our Phase 3 results or other clinical data unreliable. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of peginesatide or the integrity of the data will prevent us from receiving regulatory approval and will have a material adverse impact on our business. Obtaining approval of a NDA by the FDA is highly uncertain and like many product candidates, we may fail to obtain approval even though our NDA for peginesatide has been filed and accepted for review. The NDA review process is extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and the FDA may delay action on the NDA significantly beyond the March 27, 2012 date assigned under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, limit or deny approval of peginesatide for many reasons, including: •we may not be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that peginesatide is safe and effective for any indication; •the data arising from the clinical trials, including the Phase 3 results, the development program or the NDA for peginesatide may not be satisfactory to the FDA; •the FDA may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials or conclude that the data fails to meet statistical or clinical significance; •the FDA may have difficulties approving a dosing regimen for peginesatide in view of the FDA's safety concerns surrounding hemoglobin variability, rates of rise and excursions with ESAs as a class; 21 Table of Contents •the FDA may not find the data from preclinical studies, including our carcinogenicity studies, and clinical studies sufficient to demonstrate that peginesatide's clinical and other benefits outweighs its safety risks; •the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; •the FDA may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites and monitored by third party CROs; •the FDA may determine that we did not properly oversee third party CROs and our clinical trials; •the FDA may have difficulties approving a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, or labeling for peginesatide; •the FDA may identify deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, facilities or analytical methods or those of our third party contract manufacturers or Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Takeda, our collaboration partner; and •the FDA may still deny approval as it is not bound by the recommendations of its Oncologic Drug Advisory Committee, or ODAC, which voted 15 to 1, with 1 abstention, in December 2011 that peginesatide demonstrated a favorable benefit/risk profile for use in the treatment of dialysis patients with anemia due to chronic kidney disease. A delay in the FDA review of our NDA, or denial of approval, would delay or foreclose commercialization of peginesatide. Even if the FDA ultimately approves our NDA, the FDA may impose requirements, conditions and restrictions that could significantly increase costs or delay and limit our ability to successfully commercialize peginesatide. For example, as a result of our Phase 3 clinical results with respect to non-dialysis patients, the ODAC discussed various measures, including a REMS, a postmarketing study and label restrictions, to assure safe use of peginesatide, including minimizing the risk of administration to non-dialysis patients. The FDA may require a REMS plan for peginesatide, which could include: •a medication guide to explain the risks and benefits of peginesatide; •a communication plan to disseminate information regarding the risks of peginesatide, the applicable safety protocols and the REMS plan—e.g., a "Dear Healthcare Provider" letter; •limited or targeted distribution including elements to assure safe use, which could require healthcare providers who administer peginesatide to have specialized training, experience or certifications, require dialysis centers to be specially certified, require patients to sign an informed consent acknowledging the risks of peginesatide prior to treatment, require monitoring of each patient who uses peginesatide and require them to be enrolled in a registry; and •an implementation system to monitor, evaluate, and improve the implementation of the REMS plan. The FDA may also require postmarketing studies or trials to further evaluate the safety of peginesatide and may require postmarketing commitments to monitor adverse events. Finally, the FDA may impose label restrictions to address safety concerns. Such label restrictions could include limited indications and usage, expanded contraindications and expanded warnings and precautions. Any REMS plan, postmarketing studies, trials or commitments or label restrictions could significantly delay, limit, or prevent, successful commercialization of peginesatide or otherwise severely harm our business and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Results from the Trial to Reduce Cardiovascular Endpoints with Aranesp Therapy, or TREAT, heightens concerns surrounding safety of ESAs and increases the regulatory risk for peginesatide as the class faces greater regulatory scrutiny. These concerns may limit our ability to develop and obtain regulatory approval for peginesatide, or to do so on a timely basis. The FDA recently announced label changes including additional boxed warnings and more conservative dosing guidelines for ESAs in the treatment of anemia in chronic kidney disease. We cannot predict what future actions the FDA may take that could affect the potential of peginesatide given the uncertain regulatory environment. In late 2009, Amgen Inc., or Amgen, announced the results of TREAT, its large, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 study of patients with chronic kidney disease (not requiring dialysis), anemia and type-2 diabetes. In this study, treatment of anemia with Aranesp to a target hemoglobin of 13 g/dL, which was higher than the 10 g/dL - 12 g/dL range previously approved by the FDA in the label. Study results reportedly failed to show benefit compared to the control group with regard to composite of time to all-cause mortality or cardiovascular morbidity (including heart failure, heart attack, stroke, or hospitalization for myocardial ischemia) and a composite of time to all-cause mortality or chronic renal replacement. In addition, higher rates of stroke were reported amongst patients treated with Aranesp compared to the control group. Further, among a subgroup of patients with a history of cancer at baseline, a statistically significant increase in deaths from cancer was observed in the Aranesp treated patients compared to placebo treated patients. However, Aranesp treatment reportedly was associated with a statistically significant reduction in blood transfusions and a modest improvement in patient reported fatigue. In January 2010, FDA officials published an editorial in the New England Journal of Medicine entitled "Erythropoiesis-Stimulating Agents—Time for a Reevaluation" and plans to convene a public advisory committee meeting to evaluate the use of ESAs in the treatment of anemia due to chronic kidney disease. The editorial noted that a number of randomized trials, including TREAT, have attempted to show that using ESAs to raise hemoglobin concentrations to higher targets improves clinical outcomes but rather have suggested the opposite. Accordingly, the article indicates that more conservative hemoglobin targets (well below 12 g/dL), more frequent hemoglobin monitoring, and more cautious dosing, should be evaluated. In February 2010, the FDA announced that ESAs must be prescribed and used under a REMS to ensure the safe use of these drugs. As part of the REMS, a medication guide explaining the risks and benefits of ESAs must be provided to all patients receiving ESAs for all indications. In addition, in the case of oncology use, the FDA required ESA manufacturers to implement training for hospitals and healthcare professionals and the signing of a patient informed consent acknowledging the risks of ESA use prior to treatment. As part of any REMS, the manufacturer has reporting and monitoring obligations to ensure compliance. In October 2010, the FDA convened a cardio-renal advisory committee to review TREAT and to re-evaluate the use of ESAs in the treatment of anemia in chronic kidney disease. Although the advisory panel voted against withdrawal of the indication for Aranesp's use in non-dialysis patients even those with a history of stroke, and voted against the adoption of the TREAT control group dosing regimen (treatment once hemoglobin is below 9 g/dL), the advisory committee discussion included potential areas of concerns regarding the use of ESAs, including hemoglobin variability and rates of excursions associated with current dosing regimens, use by certain subgroups including diabetics and hyporesponders, among others, for further consideration in clinical trials. In June 2011, the FDA cited increased risks of cardiovascular events as a basis for more conservative dosing guidelines for use of ESAs in chronic kidney disease and announced related changes to ESA labeling. The FDA removed the prior target range of 10-12 g/dL and while separately issuing guidance for non-dialysis patients, the FDA recommended that dialysis patients initiate treatment when the hemoglobin is less than 10 g/dL and to reduce or interrupt dosing if hemoglobin 23 Table of Contents level approaches or exceeds 11 g/dL. The FDA also required Amgen to conduct additional clinical trials to explore dosing strategies, including in dialysis patients to minimize hemoglobin variability, rates of change and excursions while exploring benefit. The FDA may continue to impose further restrictions or requirements on ESAs, including on peginesatide. The TREAT results and the FDA's recent and potential future actions represent additional challenges to ESAs as a class and increase the uncertainty associated with peginesatide's regulatory approval. Even prior to these recent events, for the last several years, the FDA, the medical community, and others have recently raised significant safety concerns relating to commercially available ESAs as a result of reports of increased mortality and side effects from a number of clinical trials. These concerns have resulted in a number of negative actions affecting the market for ESAs, including the following: •As a result of concerns associated with administering ESAs to target higher hemoglobin levels, the FDA required revised warnings, including boxed warnings, be added to labels of currently marketed ESAs advising physicians to monitor hemoglobin levels and to use the lowest dose of ESA to increase the hemoglobin concentration to the lowest level sufficient to avoid the need for red blood cell transfusions. •The FDA also issued a public health advisory statement re-evaluating the safe use of the ESA class and convened the ODAC, in May 2007 to consider recent information on risks associated with ESAs for use in the treatment of anemia in cancer patients. The ODAC recommended that the FDA institute restrictions on the usage of currently marketed ESAs, including limitations on the treatment of certain types of cancer and the duration of treatment. •The FDA also convened a joint meeting in September 2007 of the Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee and the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee to review the risks and benefits of ESAs. •The FDA approved revised boxed warnings and other safety-related product labeling changes for commercially available ESAs during 2007 and thereafter. •In addition, the FDA convened another ODAC meeting in March 2008 to review data from more recent clinical trials with breast cancer patients and cervical cancer patients using currently marketed ESAs, and to consider additional action. The ODAC recommended the use of informed consents and further restrictions on the use of currently marketed ESAs for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced anemia, including the exclusion of patients with metastatic breast or head and neck cancer as well as those cancer patients potentially receiving curative treatment. •In July 2008, the FDA announced additional safety-related label restrictions for the use of commercially available ESAs including revisions to the boxed warnings to provide that ESAs are not indicated for patients undergoing chemotherapy expected to cure their cancer. In addition, the FDA required new prescribing information to assure that ESA therapy is not initiated until the hemoglobin level drops below 10 g/dL. In 2008, these factors and the uncertain regulatory climate resulted in our and Takeda's decision to suspend the development of peginesatide to treat chemotherapy-induced anemia. Further, in 2010, based on our discussion with the FDA, we and Takeda decided to submit an NDA for treatment of anemia in chronic kidney disease patients for dialysis patients only. These events may have a material adverse effect on our business and future financial results. We cannot predict what further action, if any, the FDA may take, which may include, among others, additional label restrictions, the use of informed consents, further lowering or removal of target hemoglobin levels, or even the removal of indications from the label altogether. Further, regardless of 24 Table of Contents whether the FDA takes additional action or not, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, and private payors may still decide separately to lower or discontinue reimbursement as CMS has recently adopted changes and continues to evaluate reimbursement policy for ESAs. The controversy surrounding ESAs and FDA concerns has, and may further negatively affect peginesatide, including the completion of our development program. These safety concerns may increase the risk of not achieving regulatory approval or negatively affect the timing or costs associated with obtaining regulatory approval, including potential risk mitigation activities we may be required to complete either prior to or after product approval. We cannot predict the scope of the REMS we may ultimately be required to implement by the FDA and the impact on the use of peginesatide. Even a small imbalance in safety events or unfavorable signal or trend against peginesatide may increase the risk of or the conditions or limitations associated with approval by the FDA, as regulators are increasingly uncomfortable with the safety of the comparator ESAs. Any of these factors could significantly delay or negatively impact the commercialization of peginesatide. Our development program for peginesatide may not lead to a commercial drug either because we fail to adequately demonstrate that it is safe and effective in clinical trials and or pre-clinical studies and we therefore fail to obtain necessary approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies, or because we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance peginesatide through development and commercialization. The Phase 3 results remain subject to a final determination as to the safety and efficacy of peginesatide by the FDA. Any significant delay or failure to obtain approval of peginesatide would have a material and adverse impact on our business as we would have to incur substantial expense and it would take a significant amount of time and resources to bring any future product candidate to market, if ever. We have relied and continue to rely on numerous third parties, particularly CROs, to conduct and complete our development program for peginesatide. If we cannot obtain the necessary third-party assistance on acceptable terms, then we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for peginesatide. Due to the size and limited experience of our organization, we have relied heavily on CROs, contractors and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise conducting clinical trials. Our Phase 3 clinical program for peginesatide was large and complex and conducted at over 300 sites in the U.S. and Europe. Even though we have completed our Phase 3 clinical program and our NDA was accepted for review, we continue to require the assistance of these third parties through the FDA review process and in the future. We have had significant difficulties obtaining the necessary and quality resources. We continue to compete with larger and other companies for the attention and assistance of these third parties. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining the needed assistance on acceptable terms, we will have difficulty maintaining our timelines and obtaining approval for peginesatide. Moreover, FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements, and regulatory authorities may find remediation efforts by us or our CROs insufficient. Recently, the FDA appears to be increasing its focus on clinical data quality, which may delay or reduce the likelihood of regulatory approval. 25 Table of Contents Even if peginesatide is approved by the FDA, we may not be able to commercialize it successfully. If peginesatide is approved by the FDA, our success will depend on our ability to commercialize the product successfully, including the ability to: •achieve acceptance and generate product sales through Takeda's execution of agreements with one or more major operators of dialysis clinics on commercially reasonable terms; obtain a Medicare reimbursement code for peginesatide, and receive adequate levels of reimbursement; •hire, train, deploy and support a qualified commercial and medical affairs organization and field force; •support the process of dialysis clinics to safely and efficiently convert dialysis patients to peginesatide; •create market demand for peginesatide through our education, marketing and sales activities, as well as through our co-promotion agreement with Takeda, including our ability to establish or demonstrate the safety and efficacy of peginesatide; •comply with requirements established by the FDA, including REMS, postmarketing studies, trials or commitments or label restrictions; •comply with other healthcare regulatory requirements; •manufacture the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient, or API, for peginesatide in sufficient quantities and in compliance with requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and at an acceptable quality and pricing level in order to meet commercial demand; and •ensure that the entire supply chain for peginesatide—from API to finished product—efficiently and consistently delivers peginesatide to our customers. If we are unable to successfully commercialize peginesatide, then we will not be able to generate product sales, which will have a material adverse impact on our business and our prospects. If we are unable either to build commercial, medical affairs and distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will be unable to commercialize peginesatide successfully. We currently have limited commercial and medical affairs capabilities, and we have no experience commercializing a pharmaceutical product. To commercialize peginesatide, we must either further develop internal sales, marketing, contracting, reimbursement, and distribution capabilities, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. As we currently plan to market peginesatide directly with Takeda, we must commit significant time and financial and managerial resources to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize peginesatide directly or indirectly with Takeda include: •our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective commercial and medical affairs personnel; •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe peginesatide; •our inability to train sales personnel, who will have no prior experience with our company or peginesatide, to deliver a consistent and appropriate message regarding peginesatide and be credible and persuasive in convincing physicians to prescribe the product; 26 Table of Contents •our inability to equip sales personnel with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them inform and educate physicians and other healthcare providers regarding peginesatide and its proper administration; •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; •our inability to manage a potential substantial increase in our number of full-time employees in a matter of months; and •unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating and sustaining an independent sales and marketing organization. If we, or Takeda through our collaboration, are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing peginesatide, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. To the extent we rely on other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies with established sales, marketing and distribution systems to market peginesatide, we will need to establish and maintain partnership arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially in our control. In that event, our product revenues would likely be lower than if we marketed and sold our products directly. Our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of peginesatide among physicians, patients and health care payors. Further, our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of peginesatide among the major operators of dialysis clinics as well as reaching an agreement with one or more of such major operators of dialysis clinics. We may not be able to reach agreement with either of the largest operators of dialysis clinics in the U.S., DaVita Inc. and Fresenius Medical Care, or DaVita and Fresenius, respectively, because DaVita entered into a seven-year supply agreement with Amgen commencing in January 2012 and Fresenius entered into a "multi-year" supply agreement with Amgen also commencing in January 2012. Peginesatide has not been approved or commercialized for any indication and we are planning to pursue approval from the FDA for treatment of anemia associated with chronic kidney disease in dialysis patients. Even if approved for sale by the appropriate regulatory authorities, reimbursement on a bundled basis adopted by CMS may create incentives for significantly lower utilization or dosing of ESAs, including peginesatide, and physicians may not prescribe peginesatide, in which case our ability to sell product and become profitable would be adversely impacted. The therapeutic indication targeted by peginesatide has been served by our competitor's products for many years. These products may now be said to be the standard of care, and it may be difficult to encourage healthcare providers to switch from products with which they and their patients have become comfortable. This dialysis market, which peginesatide will attempt to penetrate, is highly established and concentrated, with two ESA products serving a significant majority of all dialysis patients on Medicare. In addition, dialysis clinics using ESAs could incur substantial expense in administration and training if they were to switch from current ESAs to peginesatide. The concentration of customers for ESAs within the dialysis market may pose a risk to our ability to obtain revenues or favorable margins on peginesatide, if approved. Finally, if we cannot reach an agreement with one or more of the major companies operating dialysis clinics in the U.S., or even if we can but we cannot do so on favorable terms or on a timely basis, the revenue opportunity for peginesatide could be significantly reduced. In particular, we may not be able to reach an agreement with either of the largest operators of dialysis clinics in the U.S., DaVita and Fresenius, because DaVita entered into an ESA-supply agreement with Amgen to begin in January 27 Table of Contents 2012, and Fresenius entered into an ESA-supply agreement with Amgen also to begin in January 2012. Amgen markets the ESAs EPOGEN and Aranesp. In November 2011, DaVita and Amgen announced the execution of a seven-year agreement whereby Amgen would supply EPOGEN to meet at least 90% of DaVita's requirements for ESAs used in providing dialysis services in the U.S. commencing in January 2012. In addition, Fresenius announced the execution of a "multi-year" agreement with Amgen whereby Amgen would supply EPOGEN on a "non-exclusive" basis to Fresenius commencing in January 2012. Amgen has not disclosed this agreement with Fresenius in any of its public filings to date. The specific terms of the Amgen-DaVita agreement and the Amgen-Fresenius agreement have not been publicly disclosed, and we cannot predict how these agreements may impact the commercial opportunity for peginesatide if and when it is launched. But these agreements may limit the market opportunity for peginesatide and adversely impact our ability to generate product sales. Our commercial success depends on the market opportunity for peginesatide, which may be significantly reduced as a result of the increasing controversy surrounding ESAs, the TREAT results and recent and future actions by the FDA and CMS. Safety concerns have significantly reduced the market for ESAs in recent years. As the perception of the risks of ESA usage continues to increase with the controversy surrounding the TREAT results, the concerns are likely to further negatively impact the use of ESAs and the commercial potential of peginesatide. The FDA's recent actions, including the removal of target hemoglobin ranges, may limit the use of ESAs in chronic kidney disease in dialysis patients. In addition, we cannot guarantee that future decisions by CMS will support current ESA utilization levels or provider adoption of peginesatide. CMS held Medicare Evidence Development & Coverage Advisory Committee, or MedCAC, meetings in March 2010 and January 2011 to review current ESA coverage policy based on the available evidence on the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients who have chronic kidney disease, and the role of ESAs in successful kidney transplantation, respectively. In November 2011, pursuant to the FDA label changes, CMS, through rulemaking, modified its performance incentive program for dialysis providers by removing a performance measure focused on maintaining hemoglobin level above 10g/dL in dialysis patients, which may create incentives for lower overall ESA utilization. These recent events and further action by FDA to continue to restrict ESA use or decrease reimbursement coverage by CMS could have a materially negative impact on the size of the ESA market in the U.S. and reduce the overall size of the market peginesatide is expected to compete in at the time of launch. Not only may a small imbalance in safety events or unfavorable signal or trend against peginesatide increase FDA approval risk or the risk of peginesatide obtaining reimbursement, but any negative perception of peginesatide's safety relative to other ESAs could keep us from successfully commercializing peginesatide. Peginesatide is our only product candidate and we may not develop any other product candidates for the foreseeable future. Peginesatide is the main focus of our business, which we expect to be the case for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, until we are able to obtain additional financing and resources to commercialize peginesatide, we are unlikely to be able to successfully discover or develop any other product candidates. Further, we have had to reduce our research capabilities and efforts, including the elimination of certain research programs even some activities related to the support of peginesatide. We have limited ability and resources to pursue internal research and programs and strategic collaborations for the development of new products. Research programs to identify new disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not any product candidates are ultimately identified. Our research programs may initially show promise in 28 Table of Contents identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: •the financial and internal resources may be insufficient and are needed for peginesatide; •the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates; •competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete; •a product candidate may, on further study, be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory requirements for approval; •a product candidate may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; or •a product candidate may not be accepted by patients, the medical community or third party payors. The U.S. market opportunity for peginesatide may deteriorate significantly after the entry of biosimilars in the U.S. In March 2010, federal legislation gave the FDA authority to create an abbreviated approval path for biological products that are demonstrated to be "biosimilar" to, or "interchangeable" with, an FDA-approved biological product. In February 2012, the FDA released three draft guidance documents regarding this abbreviated approval path for biosimilar products, and the FDA is accepting public comments on these documents. A biosimilar product would be a subsequent version of an existing, branded FDA-approved biologic product. The patent for the existing branded product must expire in a given market before biosimilars may enter that market. The patents for epoetin alfa, a version of recombinant human erythropoietin, or rEPO, expired in 2004 in the European Union, or E.U., and the remaining patents expire from 2012 through 2015 in the U.S. Biosimilars of rEPO are currently being developed or sold in the E.U., and in various other markets outside the U.S. And in January 2012, Hospira Inc. announced the beginning of its U.S. Phase 3 clinical program for its biosimilar of rEPO with results anticipated in 2013. We expect that biosimilars, including rEPO, will be sold at a discount to existing branded products when they are launched in the U.S. as in the E.U. The introduction of biosimilars into the rEPO market in the U.S. could prove to be a significant threat to peginesatide if they are able to demonstrate biosimilarity to existing rEPO. Biosimilars will constitute additional competition for peginesatide, if approved, and are expected to drive its price and sales volume down, which would adversely affect our revenues. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future, which will require us to obtain substantial additional financing. If we incur significant delays or expenses and are unable to obtain additional financing, we will be unable to complete the development and commercialization of peginesatide and may need to cease operations. Even if we obtain additional financing, when needed, we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 2001. Currently, we have no products approved for commercial sale and, to date, we have not generated any revenue from product sales. At December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $450.3 million. Due to the recognition of revenues from milestone payments from our collaboration with Takeda, we were profitable for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2010 and may have profitable quarters from time to time if we are successful in obtaining FDA approval for peginesatide. We continue to expect to incur substantial losses in order to complete the development and commercialization of peginesatide. 29 Table of Contents Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since our inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts in order to: •prepare to launch and commercialize peginesatide, including building our own commercial organization, sales force and infrastructure to address renal markets; •prepare for the manufacturing process for peginesatide at our contract manufacturers for commercial launch; •pursue approval of the NDA for peginesatide through the FDA review process, which is a lengthy and uncertain process; and •complete clinical development of peginesatide, and any postmarketing requirements. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments together with the interest thereon will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations for at least the next 12 months. However, further challenges or delays to approval and commercialization of peginesatide may require us to raise additional funding to complete the development and commercialization of peginesatide. Since the announcement of our Phase 3 data in late June 2010 and the arbitration decision in October 2010, we have experienced a severe decline in our stock price, which has impaired our ability to access capital on potentially favorable terms. In contrast, our funding needs have only increased with the delays in the peginesatide development program, the potential loss of milestone payments from Takeda associated with the non-dialysis indication. Our failure to raise capital when needed may harm our business and operating results. The current capital markets have been extremely volatile, and biotechnology companies have been limited or unsuccessful in obtaining funding in this environment. Securing funding has been particularly difficult for companies of our size with limited capital resources. Continuation of this market and the issues arising from our Phase 3 results significantly limit our ability to raise funds such that that there can be no assurance we can raise the additional funds, when needed, to support our continuing operations and maintain current development and commercialization timelines for peginesatide. To date, our sources of cash have been limited primarily to the proceeds from the sale of our securities to private and public investors and payments by Takeda under our collaboration agreements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, if available, our stockholders may experience significant dilution particularly given the stock price decline we experienced subsequent to the announcement of our Phase 3 results. Further, our equity line of credit with Azimuth Opportunity Ltd., or Azimuth, is subject to a number of conditions that limits our ability to draw against such facility. Any debt financing, if available, may involve security interests on our assets or restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to raise additional funds when required or on acceptable terms, we may have to: •assume greater risks and significantly delay, scale back, or discontinue the development and/or commercialization of peginesatide; •relinquish our existing rights to peginesatide; •eliminate or defer formulation research and development or other manufacturing efforts that may be required to successfully develop or commercially launch peginesatide; or •pursue merger and acquisition alternatives. We expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses as we pursue regulatory review and approval of the NDA, add infrastructure and operations to support commercialization of peginesatide, 30 Table of Contents and potentially begin new research and development programs. Our ability to generate product sales depends heavily on our ability to successfully develop and secure regulatory approval for, and commercially launch, our product candidate, peginesatide. If due to lengthy and complicated development, clinical and regulatory requirements or any other reason, we are unable to commercialize peginesatide, we may never be able to commercialize any future product candidates. Even if we receive regulatory approval of peginesatide, we must successfully commercialize peginesatide before we can become profitable. We expect to incur substantial expenses associated with our commercialization efforts, as well as share in those of Takeda's, prior to obtaining approval of peginesatide in preparation for launch into a highly competitive market as well as thereafter. Accordingly, we may never generate significant revenues and, even if we do generate product sales, we may never achieve or sustain profitability. Peginesatide may require extensive additional clinical evaluation and will require regulatory approval, significant marketing efforts and substantial investment before it can provide us or our partners with any revenue. If we or our partners are unable to develop and commercialize peginesatide or even if we receive marketing approval for peginesatide, sales revenue therefrom may be insufficient, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, and we may be unable to continue our operations. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less costly than peginesatide, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, in particular companies that have an approved ESA on the market. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than peginesatide or any other future products that we may develop and commercialize. Significant delays in the approval or commercialization of peginesatide could allow our competitors to bring new products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize peginesatide. Competitors may also reduce the price of their ESAs in order to gain market share. These price reductions could force us to lower the price of peginesatide in order to compete effectively, resulting in lower revenues and reduced margins on the sales of peginesatide. We anticipate that, if approved, for treatment of anemia associated with chronic kidney disease in dialysis patients, peginesatide would compete with EPOGEN and potentially Aranesp, which are both marketed by Amgen, NeoRecormon and Mircera, which are currently marketed outside the U.S. by Roche. Mircera reportedly has greater plasma stability and is longer acting than any rEPO product that is currently on the market. As a result of the patent litigation between Roche and Amgen, Mircera has been found to infringe several U.S. patents owned by Amgen and has been enjoined from being sold in the U.S. until the expiration of these patents in mid-2014 under a limited license. If Mircera enters the U.S. market before peginesatide or upon its entry, we believe that Mircera will be in direct competition with peginesatide, and therefore could potentially limit the market for peginesatide, because of its ability to be longer acting. Other potential competitors, including FibroGen, Inc., are developing small molecules designed to promote the production of greater levels of naturally-occurring EPO in patients. The introduction of biosimilars into the ESA market, or new market entrants, could also prove to be a significant threat to us as it could not only limit the market for peginesatide, but could also drive down the price of ESAs. Most of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Current marketers of ESAs also have the ability to bundle sales of existing ESA products with their other products, potentially disadvantaging peginesatide, which we plan to sell on a stand-alone basis. Established pharmaceutical and large biotechnology companies may invest heavily to discover and develop novel compounds or drug delivery 31 Table of Contents technology that could make peginesatide obsolete. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through strategic partnerships with large and established companies. These third parties may compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent or other intellectual property protection, receiving FDA approval, or discovering, developing and commercializing products before we do. The success of peginesatide is dependent upon the strength and performance of our collaboration with Takeda in the U.S. If we fail to maintain our existing collaboration with Takeda, such termination would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to develop peginesatide and our business. The maintenance and successful performance of our strategic collaboration with Takeda for development of peginesatide is an important part of our business model. Our collaboration with Takeda is extremely complex, particularly in the context of our planned U.S. commercial launch with respect to financial provisions, allocations of responsibilities, and the respective rights of the parties in decision making. Accordingly, significant aspects of the development and commercialization of peginesatide require Takeda's agreement or approval prior to implementation, which could cause significant delays that may materially impact the potential success of peginesatide in the U.S. Further, if we are not able to reach agreement with Takeda or maintain our existing collaboration with Takeda on plans and efforts to develop and commercialize peginesatide, our business could be severely and adversely affected. Takeda has the ability to terminate each of the collaboration agreements upon an uncured material breach by us or even in the absence of a material breach with six months notice. Currently, Takeda could terminate either or both of our collaboration agreements, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the advancement of our peginesatide program and our business. Events such as the suspension of the peginesatide oncology program, the impact of the Phase 3 results on the renal program particularly on the non-dialysis indication, and the decreased market opportunity for ESAs may increase the possibility that Takeda may elect to terminate the collaboration or limit the resources Takeda is willing to commit to peginesatide on a worldwide basis, particularly in advance of obtaining regulatory approvals for peginesatide. In December 2011, Takeda notified us of its decision not to commercialize peginesatide in Japan, which may negatively impact Takeda's overall commitment in the U.S. or elsewhere. Through the collaboration, Takeda currently provides development and commercialization funding and performs important functions, including conduct of certain clinical trials and manufacturing activities, and is expected to pay us milestone payments upon the completion of certain events, all of which would be unavailable to us in the case of an early termination of the collaboration. Even in the absence of a termination, the significant resources and commitment that may be required to successfully commercialize peginesatide in the U.S. may be limited, and Takeda's failure to provide funding or perform its obligations on a timely basis in anticipation of commercial launch may have a material adverse effect on our business and the success of peginesatide, in particular in the U.S. If we fail to maintain the Takeda collaboration or establish and maintain additional strategic collaborations for any other potential product candidates that we may pursue: •the development of peginesatide or future product candidates may be terminated or delayed; •our cash expenditures related to development of our current or future product candidates would increase significantly and we may need to seek additional financing; •we may be required to hire additional employees or otherwise develop expertise, such as sales and marketing expertise, for which we have not budgeted; •we will bear all of the risk related to the development of each of our current and future product candidates; and •we may be unable to meet demand for any future products that we may develop. 32 Table of Contents Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. The commercial success of peginesatide in the U.S. depends in significant part on the development and commercialization efforts of Takeda, over which we have limited control in the U.S. The corporate governance structure and division of roles and responsibilities with Takeda under our co-promotion agreement is complex and requires substantial coordination and focus on the part of Takeda to successfully execute our plans. Outside of the U.S. in the Takeda territory, we are solely dependent on the efforts and commitments of Takeda, either directly or through third parties, to further develop and commercialize peginesatide. If our collaborations are unsuccessful, our ability to develop and commercialize products through our collaborations, and to generate future product sales, would be significantly reduced. Our dependence on Takeda for our global collaboration with peginesatide subjects us to a number of risks, including our ability to successfully develop and commercialize peginesatide in the U.S. and sole reliance on Takeda, either directly or through third parties, to further develop, obtain and maintain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of peginesatide in the Takeda territory. Under our collaboration with Takeda in the U.S., we co-develop and co-commercialize peginesatide in the U.S. Because we share responsibility with Takeda for clinical development and commercialization activities in the U.S., which involves a complex corporate governance structure and division of roles and responsibilities, the conduct and success of the peginesatide program is substantially dependent on the efforts of Takeda over which we have limited or no control. Further, as Takeda has significant rights, responsibilities and decision-making authority over commercialization of peginesatide in the U.S. including final decision making authority with respect to pricing, contracting and distribution activities, any failure of Takeda to act in a timely manner or make adequate investments of funds or resources may delay further development or commercialization of peginesatide that may result in a negative impact on our planned timelines, require us to contribute more resources to successfully commercialize peginesatide and decrease the likelihood of commercial success for peginesatide in the U.S. Outside of the U.S., Takeda holds an exclusive license to develop and commercialize peginesatide and has primary responsibility for filing regulatory submissions and obtaining product approvals in those territories, including in Europe and Japan. As a consequence, any progress and commercial success in those territories is dependent solely on Takeda's efforts and commitment to the program. Takeda's recent decision not to commercialize peginesatide in Japan and the delay or failure to secure a third party to commercialize the product in a timely manner may significantly reduce the commercial opportunity in that territory. In addition, Takeda may delay, reduce or terminate development efforts relating to peginesatide elsewhere, independently develop products that compete with peginesatide, or fail to commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of peginesatide. Competing products or programs, either developed by Takeda or to which our collaboration partners have rights or acquire in the future, may result in our partners' withdrawal of support for peginesatide. In the event that Takeda fails to diligently develop or commercialize peginesatide, our collaboration and co-promotion agreements provide us the right to allege breach and if successfully asserted, terminate our partner's rights in certain instances. However, our ability to enforce the diligence provisions and establish breach of Takeda's diligence or other obligations so as to obtain meaningful recourse within a reasonable timeframe is uncertain. Further, any decision to pursue available remedies including termination would impact the potential success of peginesatide and we may choose not to as we may not be able to find another partner and any new collaboration will likely not provide comparable financial terms to those in our Takeda Arrangement. In the event of our termination, this may require us to commercialize peginesatide on our own, which is likely to result in significant additional expense and delay. Significant changes in Takeda's business strategy, resource commitment and the willingness or ability of Takeda to complete its obligations under the Arrangement, particularly in advance of obtaining regulatory approvals in the U.S. and abroad, could materially affect the potential success of peginesatide. 33 Table of Contents We have limited ability to control and influence Takeda in its strategic decisions. This is particularly important as we are currently planning for commercialization of peginesatide in the U.S. If Takeda were to breach or terminate either of our collaboration agreements or otherwise inadequately perform or fail to perform its obligations thereunder in a timely manner, the development and commercialization of peginesatide would be delayed, terminated or negatively impacted. Moreover, if Takeda fails to successfully develop and commercialize peginesatide outside of the U.S., our potential to generate future revenue in the Takeda territory would be significantly reduced. Reimbursement may not be available for peginesatide, which would materially diminish our sales and our ability to sell our products profitably. Market acceptance and sales of peginesatide will depend on reimbursement policies and may be affected by future health care reform measures. Government authorities and third party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for peginesatide. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts or policies will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, peginesatide. We have not commenced efforts to have peginesatide reimbursed by government or third party payors. If reimbursement is not available, is available only to limited levels or is not available in a timely manner, then we may not be able to commercialize peginesatide. In both the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals in recent years to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell peginesatide profitably. In response to the FDA's recent boxed warning and public health advisories, CMS has significantly restricted coverage of ESAs. In July 2007, CMS issued its National Coverage Decision Memorandum for Use of Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agents in Cancer and Neoplastic Conditions, or the National Coverage Decision, that determined that ESA treatment was not reasonable or necessary for certain medical conditions, including any anemia of cancer not related to cancer treatment, among others. The National Coverage Decision also established the ESA reimbursement policy for Medicare and other government beneficiaries who are treated for chemotherapy-induced anemia and contains a coverage restriction for hemoglobin levels greater than 10g/dL, which has had a material adverse effect on the use of ESAs. In July 2007, CMS also issued revisions to its reimbursement policies for the use of ESAs for end stage renal disease in cases where hemoglobin levels exceed 13 g/dL and also decreased the monthly dosing limits. In July 2008, CMS announced that ESAs are a potential topic for another National Coverage Decision citing adverse effects in cancer and chronic kidney disease patients, including dialysis patients, while noting the large costs but uncertain benefits. In March 2010, CMS convened a MedCAC meeting to review the available evidence on the use of ESAs to manage anemia in patients who have chronic kidney disease and in January 2011 to review the role of ESAs in successful kidney transplantation. In November 2011, pursuant to the FDA label changes, CMS, through rulemaking, modified its performance incentive program for dialysis providers by removing a performance measure focused on maintaining hemoglobin level above 10g/dL in dialysis patients, which may create incentives for lower overall ESA utilization. Independent of any additional action the FDA may take as to ESAs, CMS may further decrease coverage or create disincentives which could have a materially negative impact on the size of the ESA market in the U.S. and reduce the overall size of the market peginesatide is expected to compete in at the time of launch. As a result of these reimbursement and other legislative proposals and the trend towards managed health care in the U.S., third party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. In addition, major third party payors have begun to follow CMS's restrictive 34 Table of Contents reimbursement policies, which has further decreased the market for ESAs. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third party payors will reimburse patients for their use of newly approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. CMS policies are constantly changing and we cannot guarantee that they will not decrease, limit or deny reimbursement of peginesatide in the future. CMS, the agency within the Department of Health and Human Services that manages Medicare and will be responsible for reimbursement of the cost of peginesatide administered to Medicare beneficiaries, has asserted the authority of Medicare not to cover particular drugs if it determines that they are not "reasonable and necessary" for Medicare beneficiaries, or to cover them at a lesser rate, compared to drugs that CMS considers to be therapeutically comparable. We cannot be certain that CMS will not decrease, limit or deny reimbursement of peginesatide for any therapeutic indication we may pursue. Even if CMS ultimately authorizes reimbursement for peginesatide, it may be not do so in a timely manner. As the costs of the Medicare program continue to grow, CMS may be compelled to make difficult decisions regarding the trade-offs of supporting the reimbursement of certain public health expenditures over others. Depending on methods CMS uses to calculate the cost-benefit of treatments competing for share of the Medicare budget, ESAs (including peginesatide) may not be considered to offer sufficient overall health benefit to justify reimbursement at levels that will allow us to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, as a result of the recent safety concerns relating to ESAs, CMS recently announced policies significantly restricting the coverage of ESAs and has proposed another National Coverage Decision on the topic that may further negatively affect reimbursement of ESAs. CMS has instituted dramatic Medicare reimbursement changes in the past that adversely impacted the businesses of companies in other segments of the healthcare industry, and we cannot determine that CMS will not do the same in the markets in which we operate. Medicare reimbursement policies under a new bundled payment system could create disincentives for use of ESAs. Prior to this year, CMS generally reimbursed healthcare providers for use of ESAs at average selling price, or ASP, plus 6%. However, under the 2008 Medicare Legislation a new bundled payment system commenced in January 2011 for facilities that furnish renal dialysis services and home dialysis to Medicare beneficiaries with end-stage renal disease. Under the new bundled payment system, providers are expected to be reimbursed a fixed amount per patient. We cannot guarantee that peginesatide will be reimbursed by CMS or in a manner that will support physician adoption and depending upon the implementation of the bundled payment, may not be favorable to the entry of new ESAs such as peginesatide. In fact, a capitated reimbursement payment methodology may create incentives for significantly lower utilization or dosing of ESAs, including peginesatide, and reduce the commercial potential for peginesatide. Significant challenges remain with us and Takeda to manufacture peginesatide on a commercial scale. Our dependence upon third parties for manufacture and supply may cause delays in, or prevent us from, successfully developing and commercializing peginesatide. In accordance with the terms of our collaboration, Takeda has responsibility for manufacture of finished product and as a consequence, we have limited ability to control risks associated with that portion of the manufacturing process. The peginesatide manufacturing process is a complicated, time-consuming process. Manufacture of peginesatide API involves long lead times. We do not currently have the infrastructure or capability internally to manufacture the peginesatide needed to conduct our clinical trials or to commercialize 35 Table of Contents peginesatide. We are and will continue to rely upon contract manufacturers to produce our clinical trial materials and in the future commercial supplies of peginesatide. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers, partners and other third parties to produce sufficient quantities of peginesatide for all our uses, including commercialization. If our contract manufacturers or other third parties fail to deliver materials for the manufacture of peginesatide or peginesatide itself on a timely basis, with sufficient quality and at commercially reasonable prices, and if we fail to find replacement manufacturers or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities, we may be required to delay or suspend clinical trials or otherwise delay or discontinue development, commercialization or production. Peginesatide is a new chemical entity and the manufacturing process for commercial scale production in accordance with applicable regulatory guidelines remains challenging and as such, there are risks associated with the commercial scale manufacture of the API. Similar challenges exist for the manufacture of finished product that must meet a variety of regulatory requirements that vary from country to country and continue to change. Any of these risks and others may prevent or delay us from successfully developing peginesatide, including the following: •stability or formulation issues including the potential failure of product registration studies to establish sufficient stability to obtain adequate shelf life at refrigerated or room temperature; •cost overruns, process scale-up, process reproducibility; •difficulties in maintaining or upgrading equipment and manufacturing facilities on a timely basis; and •regulatory issues or changes that may cause significant modifications in the manufacturing process or facilities or otherwise impact our ability to offer competitive product presentations or formulations. We have transferred responsibility of manufacture of peginesatide finished product to Takeda and we therefore have limited control and ability to address risks associated with that portion of the manufacturing process. Further, some of suppliers and manufacturing arrangements, including the provision of bulk poly(ethylene) glycol reagent for the manufacture of peginesatide from Nektar Therapeutics AL, Corporation, or Nektar, are currently single-sourced, leaving us at greater risk of supply interruptions, potential delays and failure to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize. Unless we are able to successfully negotiate with Nektar, which we may not be able to do on acceptable terms, we may have difficulties under our existing arrangement with Nektar from obtaining proprietary information and additional services from Nektar which may be useful or necessary to obtain regulatory approvals or for commercial manufacture of peginesatide. We, Takeda, and our third party manufacturers are required to comply with applicable FDA manufacturing practice regulations. If there is any failure by us, Takeda or one of our third party manufacturers or suppliers to maintain compliance with these regulations, the production of peginesatide could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. Additionally, our third party manufacturers must pass a pre-approval inspection before we can obtain regulatory approval for peginesatide. If for any reason these third parties are unable or unwilling to perform under our agreements or enter into new agreements with us, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with them in an expeditious manner. We could also experience manufacturing delays if our third party manufacturers, Takeda or suppliers give greater priority to the production of other products over peginesatide. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of peginesatide or components thereof in a timely manner from third parties could delay clinical trials or result in product shortages and prevent us from developing and commercializing peginesatide in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. Further, our lack of experience providing 36 Table of Contents reliable supply of product may deter health care providers and dialysis centers from selecting or otherwise switching to peginesatide from our competitors' products. It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of peginesatide and any other product candidates we may pursue, their use and the methods used to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. Our ability to protect peginesatide from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importation by third parties is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents, or have trade secrets that cover these activities. We have licensed from third parties rights to numerous issued patents and patent applications. The rights that we acquire from licensors or collaborators are protected by patents and proprietary rights owned by them, and we rely on the patent protection and rights established or acquired by them. The remaining patent terms may not provide meaningful protection. Moreover, third parties may challenge the patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights held by our licensors or collaborators. We generally do not unilaterally control the prosecution of patent applications licensed from third parties. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we may exercise over internally developed intellectual property. Even if we are able to obtain issued patents, any patent may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. The existence of a patent will not necessarily protect us from competition or from claims of a third party that our products infringe their issued patents. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar drugs or products that do not infringe our patents, or produce drugs in countries where we have not applied for patent protection or that do not respect our patents. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our licensed patents, in our patents or in third party patents or applications therefor. The degree of future protection to be afforded by our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: •others may be able to make similar compounds but that are not covered by the claims of our patents, or for which we are not licensed under our license agreements; •we or our licensors or collaborators might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our pending patent application or the pending patent applications and issued patents of our licensors; •we or our licensors or collaborators might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; •others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights; •it is possible that our pending patent applications will not result in issued patents; •our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors or collaborators may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; •we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or •the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. 37 Table of Contents We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Our research and development collaborators may have rights to publish data and other information to which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals or entities to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. The ability of these individuals or entities to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations. These contractual provisions may be insufficient or inadequate to protect our trade secrets and may impair our patent rights. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be jeopardized. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use, our technology. Our ability, and that of our commercial partners, to commercialize any approved product will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, enforce those patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We have filed multiple U.S. patent applications and foreign counterparts related to peginesatide and other programs as well as underlying platform technologies and may file additional U.S. and foreign patent applications related thereto. There can be no assurance that any issued patents we own or control will provide sufficient protection to conduct our business as presently conducted or as proposed to be conducted, that any patents will issue from the patent applications owned by us, or that we will remain free from infringement claims by third parties. The failure to obtain adequate patent protection would have a material adverse effect on us and may adversely affect our ability to enter into, or affect the terms of, any arrangement for the further development and marketing of any product. There can also be no assurance that patents owned by us will not be challenged by others. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings, including interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and comparable proceedings before similar agencies in other countries in connection with any claims that may arise in the future. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions about the patentability of our inventions and products, as well as about the enforceability, validity or scope of protection afforded by our patents. Patent applications in the U.S. and elsewhere are published only after 18 months from the priority date. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Therefore, patent applications relating to products similar to peginesatide and any future products may have already been filed by others without our knowledge. In the event an infringement claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay substantial legal and other expenses to defend such a claim and, if we are unsuccessful in defending the claim, we may be prevented from pursuing related product development and commercialization and may be subject to damage awards. Any future patent litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings will result in additional expense and distraction of our personnel. An adverse outcome in such litigation or 38 Table of Contents proceedings may expose us or our collaborators to loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we may be restricted or prevented from manufacturing, developing or commercializing peginesatide or from developing, manufacturing and selling any future products in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. If it is determined that we have infringed an issued patent, we could be compelled to pay significant damages, including punitive damages. Virtually all of our competitors are able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations, in-license technology that we need, out-license our existing technologies or enter into collaborations that would assist in commercially exploiting any technology. If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key commercial, medical affairs, clinical and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize peginesatide or any other future product candidates. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, commercial, medical affairs, clinical and scientific personnel, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management, commercial, medical affairs, clinical and scientific staff, particularly John Orwin, our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Knapp, our Chief Commercial Officer and Dr. Anne-Marie Duliege, our Chief Medical Officer. The loss of services of Mr. Orwin, Mr. Knapp or Dr. Duliege, or one or more of our other members of senior management could delay or prevent the successful completion of our development or the commercialization of peginesatide. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our clinical development and commercial activities. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. Our ability to retain or attract qualified personnel has been negatively impacted by the Phase 3 results and the severe decline in our stock price. Each of our officers and key employees may terminate his/her employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. As we evolve from a company primarily involved in research and development to a company also involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. As we advance peginesatide through the development stage towards commercialization, we will need to expand our organization, including marketing and sales and medical affairs capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize peginesatide and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts effectively, and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of peginesatide. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of drug candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other countries, and regulations may differ from country to country. Neither we nor Takeda is permitted to market peginesatide in the U.S. until we receive approval of our NDA from the FDA which we may never obtain. We have not received marketing approval for peginesatide or for any product approval. Obtaining approval of an NDA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs. Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the drug approval process. We initiated our Phase 3 clinical trials for peginesatide following extensive discussion with the FDA on the design of the program. Based on the nature of these discussions and guidance from the FDA in light of the current regulatory environment, we did not enter into a special protocol assessment, or SPA, with the FDA for our Phase 3 clinical trials for peginesatide. Nonetheless, in some instances a SPA could provide more assurance that the design, clinical endpoints, and statistical end analyses resulting from these trials would be acceptable to the FDA to support regulatory approval. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. The number of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: •a drug candidate may not be deemed safe or effective; •FDA officials may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; •the FDA might not approve our or our third party manufacturer's processes or facilities; or •the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. Even if peginesatide is approved by the FDA, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize peginesatide. Any regulatory approvals that we or Takeda receive for peginesatide may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if the FDA approves peginesatide, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. Our Phase 3 results may increase the risk of significant additional requirements to maintain any regulatory approval that we might receive. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the drug, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. The FDA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of peginesatide. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent 40 Table of Contents of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our future products and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. If we fail to comply with federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and healthcare privacy and security laws, we could face substantial penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and healthcare privacy and security laws. The healthcare laws that may affect our ability to operate include: •federal "sunshine" laws that require transparency regarding financial arrangements with healthcare providers, such as the reporting and disclosure requirements imposed on drug manufacturers by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively, PPACA, regarding any "transfer of value" made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers; •the federal healthcare programs' Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; •the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters; and •state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. In addition, California, and other states such as Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of comprehensive compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations.. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of operations. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws, and we have enacted a compliance program to ensure such compliance. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws, or that the occurrence of one or more violations of these laws would not result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products abroad through our Takeda collaboration. We intend to co-market peginesatide in the U.S., and have exclusively licensed Takeda to develop peginesatide in international markets. In order to market peginesatide in the E.U. and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. Foreign regulatory approvals may not be obtained on a timely basis, if at all. We or Takeda, as part of our peginesatide collaboration, may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. Foreign governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We intend to seek approval to market peginesatide in the U.S. and, through our Takeda collaboration, in foreign jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our product. In some foreign countries, particularly in the E.U., prescription drug pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of peginesatide to other available therapies or a clinical trial that studies pharmacoeconomic benefits. If reimbursement of peginesatide is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products comply with these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages. We are uninsured for third party contamination injury. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of peginesatide. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of conducting clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize peginesatide. We may be held liable if any product we develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of peginesatide. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for peginesatide; •injury to our reputation; 42 Table of Contents •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •costs of related litigation; •diversion of management's attention and resources; •substantial monetary awards to patients; •product recalls; •loss of revenue; and •the inability to commercialize peginesatide. Our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop. We currently carry product liability insurance covering our clinical trials in the amount of $11 million in the aggregate. However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for the expenses or losses we may suffer. In addition, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile and is likely to remain highly volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. For the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2011, the closing price of our common stock ranged between a high of $7.99 per share and a low of $4.04 per share. Our stock is expected to be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •actual or anticipated results from, and any delays in, our development program, regulatory review and commercialization of peginesatide; •actual or anticipated regulatory approvals including limitations, scope or conditions with respect thereto of peginesatide or competing products; •actual or anticipated contractual arrangements of peginesatide or competing products; •actual or anticipated changes in our funding requirements, capital resources and our ability to obtain financing and the terms thereof; •actual or anticipated actions taken by regulatory agencies including CMS with respect to ESAs generally or specifically as to peginesatide; •new products or services introduced or announced by us or our collaboration partners, or our competitors, including Roche's Mircera or biosimilars, and the timing of these introductions or announcements; •actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to clinical trials, manufacturing process or sales and marketing activities; •changes in laws or regulations applicable to peginesatide, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals; •the success of our development efforts and clinical trials; 43 Table of Contents •the success of our efforts to discover, acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates; •developments concerning our collaborations, including but not limited to those with our sources of manufacturing supply and our commercialization partners; •actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; •announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; •actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •conditions or trends in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •general economic and market conditions and other factors that may be unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; •changes in the market valuations of similar companies; •sales of common stock or other securities by us or our stockholders in the future; •additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; •developments relating to proprietary rights held by us or our competitors; •disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; and •trading volume of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation or regulatory investigations have often been instituted against companies. Such litigation or investigations, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. We currently have not had any material weaknesses for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. We did identify a material weakness in the operation of our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the second quarter of 2008 which has been fully remediated. We cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. There can be no assurance that we will successfully and timely report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future periods. If we do experience a material weakness in future periods, then investor confidence, our stock price and our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, if 44 Table of Contents any, within an organization have been detected. We continue to implement, improve and refine our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market that were previously restricted from sale, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In the event that we do raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, the dilution represented by the additional shares of our equity securities in the public market could cause our stock price to fall, in which case investors may not be able to sell their shares of our equity securities at a price equal to or above the price they paid to acquire them. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income or future tax will be limited and may be further limited in the future due to ownership changes that have occurred or may occur in the future. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our NOL and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such "ownership change". The issuance of shares of our common stock in our March 2011 public offering resulted in an ownership change and further ownership changes may occur in the future, including as a result of transactions outside of our control, such as sales by existing stockholders, and as a consequence, our ability to utilize our NOL and tax credit carryforwards will be limited. Limitations imposed on the ability to use NOLs and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than would otherwise be required if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs and tax credits. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because of the significant decrease in our stock price as a result of the announcement of our Phase 3 data and the decision from the arbitration panel relating to the dispute with Johnson & Johnson. Further, our stock price may continue to experience extreme price volatility as has been experienced by biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in recent years. If we were to face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. 45 Table of Contents These provisions include: •authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; •limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and •our board of directors is classified, consisting of three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms, with each class consisting as nearly as possible of one third of the total number of directors. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 