ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Related to JetBlueWe operate in an extremely competitive industry.The domestic airline industry is characterized by low profit margins, high fixed costs and significant price competition in an increasingly concentrated competitive field. We currently compete with other airlines on all of our routes. Most of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do. Following our entry into new markets or expansion of existing markets, some of our competitors have chosen to add service or engage in extensive price competition. Unanticipated shortfalls in expected revenues as a result of price competition or in the number of passengers carried would negatively impact our financial results and harm our business. The extremely competitive nature of the airline industry could prevent us from attaining the level of passenger traffic or maintaining the level of fares required to maintain profitable operations in new and existing markets and could impede our profitable growth strategy, which would harm our business. Furthermore, there have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the airline industry including, for example, the recent combinations of Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines, United Airlines and Continental Airlines, and Southwest Airlines and AirTran Airways. In the future, there may be additional mergers and acquisitions in our industry. Any business combination could significantly alter industry conditions and competition within the airline industry and could cause fares of our competitors to be reduced. Additionally, if a traditional network airline were to fully develop a low cost structure, or if we were to experience increased competition from low cost carriers, our business could be materially adversely affected.Our business is highly dependent on the availability of fuel and fuel is subject to price volatility.Our results of operations are heavily impacted by the price and availability of fuel. Fuel costs comprise a substantial portion of our total operating expenses and are our single largest operating expense. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical factors as well as supply and demand. The availability of fuel is not only dependent on crude oil but also on refining capacity. When even a small amount of the domestic or global oil refining capacity becomes unavailable, supply shortages can result for extended periods of time. The availability of fuel is also affected by demand for home heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products, as well as crude oil reserves, dependence on foreign imports of crude oil and potential hostilities in oil producing areas of the world. Because of the effects of these factors on the price and availability of fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty.Our aircraft fuel purchase agreements do not protect us against price increases or guarantee the availability of fuel. Additionally, some of our competitors may have more leverage than we do in obtaining fuel. We have and may continue to enter into a variety of option contracts and swap agreements for crude oil, heating oil, and jet fuel to partially protect against significant increases in fuel prices; however, such contracts and agreements do not completely protect us against price volatility, are limited in volume and duration, and can be less effective during volatile market conditions and may carry counterparty risk. Under the fuel hedge contracts we may enter from time to time, counterparties to those contracts may require us to fund the margin associated with any loss position on the contracts if the price of crude oils falls below specified benchmarks. Meeting our obligations to fund these margin calls could adversely affect our liquidity.Due to the competitive nature of the domestic airline industry, at times we have not been able to adequately increase our fares to offset the increases in fuel prices nor may we be able to do so in the future. Future fuel price increases, continued high fuel price volatility or fuel supply shortages may result in a curtailment of scheduled services and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We have a significant amount of fixed obligations and we will incur significantly more fixed obligations, which could harm our ability to service our current or satisfy future fixed obligations.As of December 31, 2013, our debt of $2.59 billion accounted for 55% of our total capitalization. In addition to long-term debt, we have a significant amount of other fixed obligations under operating leases related to our aircraft, airport terminal space, other airport facilities and office space. As of December 31, 2013, future minimum payments under noncancelable leases and other financing obligations were approximately $2.11 billion for 2014 through 2018 and an aggregate of $1.62 billion for the years thereafter. Terminal 5 at JFK is under a 30-year lease with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, or PANYNJ. The minimum payments under this lease are being accounted for as a financing obligation and have been included in the future minimum payment totals above.13As of December 31, 2013, we had commitments of approximately $6.87 billion to purchase 146 additional aircraft and other flight equipment through 2022, including estimated amounts for contractual price escalations. We may incur additional debt and other fixed obligations as we take delivery of new aircraft and other equipment and continue to expand into new markets. In an effort to limit the incurrence of significant additional debt, we may seek to defer some of our scheduled deliveries, sell or lease aircraft to others, or pay cash for new aircraft, to the extent necessary or possible. The amount of our existing debt, and other fixed obligations, and potential increases in the amount of our debt and other fixed obligations could have important consequences to investors and could require a substantial portion of cash flows from operations for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes.Our high level of debt and other fixed obligations could:•impact our ability to obtain additional financing to support capital expansion plans and for working capital and other purposes on acceptable terms or at all;•divert substantial cash flow from our operations and expansion plans in order to service our fixed obligations;•require us to incur significantly more interest expense than we currently do if rates were to increase, since approximately 43% of our debt has floating interest rates; and•place us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors with better access to capital resources or more favorable terms.Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other fixed obligations will depend on our future operating performance and cash flows, which in turn will depend on prevailing economic and political conditions and financial, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We are principally dependent upon our operating cash flows and access to the capital markets to fund our operations and to make scheduled payments on debt and other fixed obligations. We cannot assure you we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations or from capital market activities to pay our debt and other fixed obligations as they become due; if we fail to do so our business could be harmed. If we are unable to make payments on our debt and other fixed obligations, we could be forced to renegotiate those obligations or seek to obtain additional equity or other forms of additional financing.Our substantial indebtedness may limit our ability to incur additional debt to obtain future financing needs.We typically finance our aircraft through either secured debt or lease financing. The impact on financial institutions from the continuing economic malaise may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to JetBlue as well as to prospective purchasers of our aircraft we undertake to sell in the future, including financing commitments we have already obtained for purchases of new aircraft. To the extent we finance our activities with additional debt, we may become subject to financial and other covenants that may restrict our ability to pursue our strategy or otherwise constrain our operations.Our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages.Our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages. In the past, we have incurred lower maintenance expenses because most of the parts on our aircraft were under multi-year warranties; many of these warranties have expired. If any maintenance provider with whom we have a flight hours agreement fails to perform or honor such agreements, we will incur higher interim maintenance costs until we negotiate new agreements. Furthermore, as our fleet ages, we expect to implement various fleet modifications over the next several years to ensure our aircrafts’ continued efficiency, modernization, brand consistency and safety. Our plans to equip our Airbus A320 aircraft with Sharklets®, for example, may require significant modification time. These fleet modifications may require significant investment over several years, including taking aircraft out of service for several weeks at a time. Our salaries, wages and benefits costs will increase as our workforce ages. As our employees' tenure with JetBlue matures, our salaries, wages and benefits costs increase. Our pilot pay structure, for example, is based on an industry derived average and to the extent our competitors continue consolidating and/or begin raising their pilot salaries in the face of a possible pilot shortage, or if overall pilot wages increase across the industry due to regulatory changes, we may have to address increased salary cost pressure to retain our pilots in an environment where our capacity is also forecast to continue to grow. As our work force ages, we expect our medical and related benefits to increase as well, despite an increased corporate focus on Crewmember wellness. 14There are risks associated with our presence in some of our international emerging markets, including political or economic instability and failure to adequately comply with existing legal requirements.Expansion to new international emerging markets may have risks due to factors specific to those markets. Emerging markets are countries which have less developed economies and are vulnerable to economic and political problems, such as significant fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest and currency exchange rates, civil disturbances, government instability, nationalization and expropriation of private assets, trafficking and the imposition of taxes or other charges by governments. The occurrence of any of these events in markets served by us and the resulting instability may adversely affect our business.We have expanded and expect to continue to expand our service to countries in the Caribbean and Latin America, some of which have less developed legal systems, financial markets, and business and political environments than the United States, and therefore present greater political, legal, economic and operational risks. We emphasize legal compliance and have implemented and continue to implement and refresh policies, procedures and certain ongoing training of employees with regard to business ethics, anti-corruption policies and many key legal requirements; however, there can be no assurance our employees will adhere to our code of business ethics, anti-corruption policies, other Company policies, or other legal requirements. If we fail to enforce our policies and procedures properly or maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to sanctions. In the event we believe or have reason to believe our employees have or may have violated applicable laws or regulations, we may be subject to investigation costs, potential penalties and other related costs which in turn could negatively affect our reputation, and our results of operations and cash flow.In addition, to the extent we continue to grow our business, opening new markets requires us to commit a substantial amount of resources even before the new services commence. Expansion is also dependent upon our ability to maintain a safe and secure operation and requires additional personnel, equipment and facilities.We may be subject to risks through the commitments and business of LiveTV, our wholly-owned subsidiary.LiveTV has agreements to provide in-flight entertainment products and services with JetBlue and six other airlines. At December 31, 2013, LiveTV services were available on 461 aircraft under these agreements, with firm commitments for 196 additional aircraft through 2015 and with options for 9 additional installations through 2016. Performance under these agreements requires LiveTV to hire, train and retain qualified employees, obtain component parts unique to its systems and services from their suppliers and secure facilities necessary to perform installations and maintenance on those systems. Should LiveTV be unable to satisfy its commitments under these third party contracts, our business could be harmed.We may be subject to unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labor costs; recent changes to the labor laws may make unionization easier to achieve.Our business is labor intensive and, unlike most other airlines, we have a non-union workforce. The unionization of any of our employees could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any of the different crafts or classes of our employees could unionize at any time, which would require us to negotiate in good faith with the employee group’s certified representative concerning a collective bargaining agreement. In February 2014, the Airline Pilots Association filed a petition with the National Mediation Board, or NMB, seeking to become the collective bargaining representative of our pilots. The NMB will hold an election from March through April, 2014. In 2010, the NMB changed its election procedures to permit a majority of those voting to elect to unionize (from a majority of those in the craft or class). These rule changes fundamentally alter the manner in which labor groups have been able to organize in our industry since the inception of the Railway Labor Act. Ultimately, if we and a newly elected representative were unable to reach agreement on the terms of a collective bargaining agreement and all of the dispute resolution processes of the Railway Labor Act were exhausted, we could be subject to work stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to other disruptions by organized labor groups protesting our non-union status. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could harm our business.Our high aircraft utilization rate helps us keep our costs low, but also makes us vulnerable to delays and cancellations in our operating regions; such delays and cancellations could reduce our profitability.We maintain a high daily aircraft utilization rate (the amount of time our aircraft spend in the air carrying passengers). High daily aircraft utilization allows us to generate more revenue from our aircraft and is achieved in part by reducing turnaround times at airports so we can fly more hours on average in a day. Aircraft utilization is reduced by delays and cancellations from various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, security requirements, air traffic congestion and unscheduled maintenance. The majority of our operations are concentrated in the Northeast and Florida, which are particularly vulnerable to weather and congestion delays. Reduced aircraft utilization may limit our ability to achieve and maintain profitability as well as lead to customer dissatisfaction.15Our business is highly dependent on the New York metropolitan market and increases in competition or congestion or a reduction in demand for air travel in this market, or governmental reduction of our operating capacity at JFK, would harm our business.We are highly dependent on the New York metropolitan market where we maintain a large presence with approximately one-half of our daily flights having JFK, LaGuardia, Newark, Westchester County Airport or Newburgh’s Stewart International Airport as either their origin or destination. We have experienced an increase in flight delays and cancellations at these airports due to airport congestion which has adversely affected our operating performance and results of operations. Our business could be further harmed by an increase in the amount of direct competition we face in the New York metropolitan market or by continued or increased congestion, delays or cancellations. Our business would also be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation in the New York metropolitan area, such as adverse changes in local economic conditions, negative public perception of New York City, terrorist attacks or significant price or tax increases linked to increases in airport access costs and fees imposed on passengers.We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business; any failure of these systems could harm our business.We are dependent on automated systems and technology to operate our business, enhance customer service and achieve low operating costs. The performance and reliability of our automated systems and data center is critical to our ability to operate our business and compete effectively. These systems include our computerized airline reservation system, flight operations system, telecommunications systems, website, maintenance systems, check-in kiosks, in-flight entertainment systems and our primary and redundant data centers. Our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information. These systems require upgrades or replacement periodically, which involve implementation and other operational risks. Our business may be harmed if we fail to operate, replace or upgrade our systems or data center infrastructure successfully.We rely on the third party providers of our current automated systems and data center infrastructure for technical support. If the current provider were to fail to adequately provide technical support for any one of our key existing systems or if new or updated components were not integrated smoothly, we could experience service disruptions, which, if they were to occur, could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses, decrease our revenues and generally harm our business and reputation. Furthermore, our automated systems cannot be completely protected against events beyond our control, including natural disasters, computer viruses, other security breaches, or telecommunications failures. Substantial or sustained system failures could impact customer service and result in our customers purchasing tickets from other airlines. We have implemented security measures and change control procedures and have disaster recovery plans as well as requiring our third party providers to have disaster recovery plans; however, we cannot assure you these measures are adequate to prevent disruptions, which, if they were to occur, could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses, decrease our revenues and generally harm our business and reputation.We may be impacted by increases in airport expenses relating to infrastructure and facilities.In order to operate within our current markets as well as continue to grow in new markets, we must be able to obtain adequate infrastructure and facilities within the relevant airports. This includes gates, check-in facilities, operations facilities and landing slots (where applicable). The costs associated to these airports are often negotiated on a short-term basis with the relevant airport authority and we could be subject to increases in costs on a regular basis with or without our approval.In addition, our operations concentrated in older airports may be harmed if the infrastructure at those airports fail to operate as expected due to age, overuse or significant unexpected weather events.Our reputation and business may be harmed and we may be subject to legal claims if there is loss, unlawful disclosure or misappropriation of, or unsanctioned access to, our customers’, employees’, business partners’ or our own information or other breaches of our information security.We make extensive use of online services and centralized data processing, including through third party service providers. The secure maintenance and transmission of customer and employee information is a critical element of our operations. Our information technology and other systems maintain and transmit customer information, or those of service providers or business partners, may be compromised by a malicious third party penetration of our network security, or of a third party service provider or business partner, or impacted by deliberate or inadvertent actions or inactions by our employees, or those of a third party service provider or business partner. As a result, personal information may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without consent.16We transmit confidential credit card information by way of secure private retail networks and rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission and storage of confidential information, such as customer credit card information. The Company has made significant efforts to secure its computer network. If any compromise of our security or computer network were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the reputation, business, operating results and financial condition of the Company, and could result in a loss of customers. Additionally, any material failure by the Company to achieve or maintain compliance with the Payment Card Industry, or PCI, security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on the Company's ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment.Any such loss, disclosure or misappropriation of, or access to, customers’, employees’ or business partners’ information or other breach of our information security can result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, may have a negative impact on our reputation and may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the loss, disclosure or misappropriation of our business information may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.Our liquidity could be adversely impacted in the event one or more of our credit card processors were to impose material reserve requirements for payments due to us from credit card transactions.We currently have agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by our customers. Credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel which can occur several weeks after the purchase. Our credit card processing agreements provide for reserves to be deposited with the processor in certain circumstances. We do not currently have reserves posted for our credit card processors. If circumstances were to occur requiring us to deposit reserves, the negative impact on our liquidity could be significant which could materially adversely affect our business.If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel or fail to maintain our company culture, our business could be harmed.We compete against the other major U.S. airlines for pilots, mechanics and other skilled labor; some of them offer wage and benefit packages exceeding ours. As more pilots in the industry approach mandatory retirement age, the U.S. airline industry may be affected by a pilot shortage, to some extent. We may be required to increase wages and/or benefits in order to attract and retain qualified personnel or risk considerable employee turnover. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified employees, our business could be harmed and we may be unable to implement our growth plans.In addition, as we hire more people and grow, we believe it may be increasingly challenging to continue to hire people who will maintain our company culture. One of our competitive strengths is our service-oriented company culture which emphasizes friendly, helpful, team-oriented and customer-focused employees. Our company culture is important to providing high quality customer service and having a productive workforce in order to help keep our costs low. As we continue to grow, we may be unable to identify, hire or retain enough people who meet the above criteria, including those in management or other key positions. Our company culture could otherwise be adversely affected by our growing operations and geographic diversity. If we fail to maintain the strength of our company culture, our competitive ability and our business may be harmed.Our results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors.We expect our quarterly operating results to fluctuate due to seasonality including high vacation and leisure demand occurring on the Florida routes between October and April and on our western routes during the summer. Actions of our competitors may also contribute to fluctuations in our results. We are more susceptible to adverse weather conditions, including snow storms and hurricanes, as a result of our operations being concentrated on the East Coast, than some of our competitors. As we enter new markets we could be subject to additional seasonal variations along with any competitive responses to our entry by other airlines. Price changes in aircraft fuel as well as the timing and amount of maintenance and advertising expenditures also impact our operations. As a result of these factors, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future performance. In addition, it is possible in any future period our operating results could be below the expectations of investors and any published reports or analyses regarding JetBlue. In such an event, the price of our common stock could decline, perhaps substantially.We are subject to the risks of having a limited number of suppliers for our aircraft, engines and a key component of our in-flight entertainment system.Our current dependence on three types of aircraft and engines for all of our flights makes us vulnerable to significant problems associated with the International Aero Engines, or IAE V2533-A5 engine on our Airbus A321 fleet, the International Aero Engines, or IAE V2527-A5 engine on our Airbus A320 fleet and the General Electric Engines CF-34-10 engine on our EMBRAER 190 fleet. This could include design defects, mechanical problems, contractual performance by the manufacturers, or adverse perception by the public which would result in customer avoidance or in actions by the FAA resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft. Carriers operating a more diversified fleet are better positioned than we are to manage such events.17One of the unique features of our fleet is every seat in each of our aircraft is equipped with free in-flight entertainment including DIRECTV®. An integral component of the system is the antenna, which is supplied to us by KVH Industries Inc, or KVH. If KVH were to stop supplying us with its antennas for any reason, we would have to incur significant costs to procure an alternate supplier.In addition, our Fly-Fi service uses technology and satellite access through our partnership with ViaSat, Inc. Similarly an integral component of the Fly-Fi system is the antenna, which is supplied to us by ViaSat. If ViaSat were to stop supplying us with its antennas for any reason, we would have to incur significant costs to procure an alternate supplier. Additionally, if the satellites Fly-Fi uses were to become inoperable for any reason, we would have to incur significant costs to replace the service.Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or incident involving our aircraft.An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft, or an aircraft containing LiveTV equipment, could involve significant potential claims of injured passengers or others in addition to repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service. We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance. Although we believe we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception we are less safe or reliable than other airlines which would harm our business.An ownership change could limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. income tax purposes.As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $456 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. income tax purposes that begin to expire in 2025. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes limitation on a corporation’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards if it experiences an “ownership change”. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. In the event an “ownership change” were to occur in the future, our ability to utilize our net operating losses could be limited.Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of the JetBlue brand.The JetBlue brand name symbolizes high-quality friendly customer service, innovation, fun, and a pleasant travel experience. JetBlue is a widely recognized and respected global brand; the JetBlue brand is one of our most important and valuable assets. The JetBlue brand name and our corporate reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to activities by our employees, contractors or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand.We may be subject to competitive risks due to the long term nature of our fleet order book.At present, we have existing aircraft commitments through 2022. As technological evolution occurs in our industry, through the use of composites and other innovations, we may be competitively disadvantaged because we have existing extensive fleet commitments that would prohibit us from adopting new technologies on an expedited basis.Risks Associated with the Airline IndustryThe airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic condition.Fundamental and permanent changes in the domestic airline industry have been ongoing over the past several years as a result of several years of repeated losses, among other reasons. These losses resulted in airlines renegotiating or attempting to renegotiate labor contracts, reconfiguring flight schedules, furloughing or terminating employees, as well as considering other efficiency and cost-cutting measures. Despite these actions, several airlines have reorganized under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to permit them to reduce labor rates, restructure debt, terminate pension plans and generally reduce their cost structure. Since 2005, the U.S. airline industry has experienced significant consolidation and liquidations. The global economic recession and related unfavorable general economic conditions, such as higher unemployment rates, a constrained credit market, housing-related pressures, and increased business operating costs can reduce spending for both leisure and business travel. Unfavorable economic conditions could also impact an airline’s ability to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs. It is foreseeable further airline reorganizations, consolidation, bankruptcies or liquidations may occur in the current global recessionary environment, the effects of which we are unable to predict. We cannot assure you the occurrence of these events, or potential changes resulting from these events, will not harm our business or the industry.18A future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could adversely affect our industry.Acts of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could have an adverse effect on the airline industry. In the event of a terrorist attack, whether or not successful, the industry would likely experience increased security requirements and significantly reduced demand. We cannot assure you these actions, or consequences resulting from these actions, will not harm our business or the industry.Changes in government regulations imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations or the U.S. Government ceasing to provide adequate war risk insurance could increase our operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions.Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements, both domestically and internationally, involving significant compliance costs. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the agencies of the federal government, including, but not limited to, the DOT, FAA, CBP and the TSA have issued regulations relating to the operation of airlines that have required significant expenditures. We expect to continue to incur expenses in connection with complying with government regulations. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce the demand for air travel. If adopted or materially amended, these measures could have the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing air travel demand and/or revenue and increasing costs. We cannot assure you these and other laws or regulations enacted in the future will not harm our business.The U.S. Government currently provides insurance coverage for certain claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. Should this coverage no longer be offered, the coverage that would be available to us through commercial aviation insurers may have substantially less desirable terms, result in higher costs and not be adequate to protect our risk, any of which could harm our business. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has proposed changes to underground storage tank regulations that could affect certain airport fuel hydrant systems. In addition to the proposed EPA and state regulations, several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of de-icing fluid to local groundwater, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport de-icing facilities.Amended FAA regulations relating to flight, duty and rest regulations and the additional operational requirements will impact our business In January 2014, the FAA’s rule amending the FAA’s flight, duty, and rest regulations became effective. Among other things, the new rule requires a ten hour minimum rest period prior to a pilot’s flight duty period; mandates a pilot must have an opportunity for eight hours of uninterrupted sleep within the rest period; and imposes new pilot “flight time” and “duty time” limitations based upon report times, the number of scheduled flight segments, and other operational factors. We have hired additional pilots to address the requirements of the new rule. The new rule may reduce our staffing flexibility, which could impact our operational performance, costs, and delivery of the JetBlue Experience, any of which could harm our business.The impact of federal sequester budget cuts mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011 or other federal budgetary constraints may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations and financial position.On April 16, 2013, the FAA imposed furloughs mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011, which included reduced staffing of air traffic controllers. This action resulted in increased delays, reduced arrival rates and flight cancellations across the airline industry and impacting the flying public for approximately one week until Congress passed legislation allowing the FAA to redirect other funds to cover staffing for air traffic controllers. On October 1, 2013, after Congress failed to pass a 2014 budget, portions of the federal government deemed nonessential were shut down. After extending the federal debt ceiling limit, the partial government shutdown ended on October 17, 2013, but not before delaying the delivery of two aircraft from their manufacturers. Much of our airline operations are regulated by governmental agencies, including the FAA, the DOT, CBP, The TSA and others. Should mandatory furloughs and/or other budget constraints continue or resume for an extended period of time, our operations and results of operations could be materially negatively impacted. The travel behaviors of the flying public could also be affected, which may materially adversely impact our industry and our business. Compliance with future environmental regulations may harm our business.Many aspects of airlines’ operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations, and growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional regulation. Since the domestic airline industry is increasingly price sensitive, we may not be able to recover the cost of compliance with new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations from our passengers, which could adversely affect our business. Although it is not expected the costs of complying with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, no assurance can be made the costs of complying with environmental regulations in the future will not have such an effect.19We could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease or an environmental disaster that significantly affects travel behavior.Any outbreak of a disease affecting travel behavior could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, outbreaks of disease could result in quarantines of our personnel or an inability to access facilities or our aircraft, which could adversely affect our operations. Similarly, if an environmental disaster were to occur and adversely impact any of our destination cities, travel behavior could be affected and in turn, could materially adversely impact our business.The unknown impact from the Dodd-Frank Act as well as the rules to be promulgated under it could require the implementation of additional policies and require us to incur administrative compliance costs.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, contains a variety of provisions designed to regulate financial markets. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to rulemaking that will take effect over several years, thus making it difficult to assess its impact on us at this time. We expect to successfully implement any new applicable legislative and regulatory requirements and may incur additional costs associated with our compliance with the new regulations and anticipated additional reporting and disclosure obligations; however, at this time we do not expect such costs to be material to us.20ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.