Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this report, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If any of the following risks is realized, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our business is dependent upon the availability of tax-advantaged consumer-directed benefits to employers and employees and any diminution in, elimination of, or change in the availability of, these benefits would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Our business fundamentally depends on employer and employee demand for tax-advantaged consumer-directed health, commuter and other employee spending plan benefits, or CDBs. Any diminution in or elimination of the availability of CDBs for employees would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. In addition, incentives for employers to offer CDBs may also be reduced or eliminated by changes in laws that result in employers no longer realizing financial gain from the implementation of these benefits. If employers cease to offer CDB programs or reduce the number of programs they offer to their employees, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects would also be materially adversely affected. We are not aware of any reliable statistics on the growth of CDB programs and cannot assure you that participation in CDB programs will grow. In addition, if the payroll tax savings employers currently realize from their employees’ utilization of CDBs become reduced or unavailable, employers may be less inclined to offer these programs to their employees. If the tax savings currently realized by employee participants by utilizing CDBs were reduced or unavailable, we expect employees would correspondingly reduce or eliminate their participation in such CDB plans. Any such reduction in employer or employee incentives would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Future portfolio purchases and acquisitions are an important aspect of our growth strategy, and any failure to successfully identify, acquire or integrate acquisitions or additional portfolio targets could materially adversely affect our ability to grow our business. In addition, costs of integrating acquisitions and portfolio purchases may adversely affect our results of operations in the short term. Our recent growth has been, and our future growth will be, substantially dependent on our ability to continue to make and integrate acquisitions and complementary portfolio purchases to expand our employer client base and service offerings. Since 2007, we have completed six portfolio purchases and one acquisition, including two portfolio purchases and one acquisition in 2012. Our most recent portfolio purchase, the acquisition of Benefit Concepts, Inc., or BCI, was completed in December 2012. Our successful integration of these portfolio purchases and acquisitions into our operations on a cost-effective basis is critical to our future financial performance. While we believe that there are numerous potential portfolio purchases that would add to our employer client base and service offerings, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully make a sufficient number of such portfolio purchases in a timely and effective manner in order to support our growth objectives. In addition, the process of integrating portfolio purchases and our most recent acquisition may create unforeseen difficulties and expenditures. We face various risks in making portfolio purchases and any acquisition, including: • our ability to retain acquired employer clients and their associated revenues; • diversion of management’s time and focus from operating our business to address integration challenges; 19 Table of Contents • our ability to retain or replace key employees from acquisitions and portfolios we acquire; • cultural and logistical challenges associated with integrating employees from acquired portfolios into our organization; • our ability to integrate the combined products, services and technology; • the migration of acquired employer clients to our technology platforms; • our ability to cross-sell additional CDB programs to acquired employer clients; • our ability to realize expected synergies; • the need to implement or improve internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at businesses that, prior to the portfolio purchase or acquisition, may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies, including, but not limited to, processes required for the effective and timely reporting of the financial condition and results of operations of the acquired business, both for historical periods prior to the acquisition and on a forward-looking basis following the acquisition; • possible write-offs or impairment charges that result from acquisitions and portfolio purchases; • unanticipated or unknown liabilities that relate to purchased businesses; • the need to integrate purchased businesses’ accounting, management information, human resources, and other administrative systems to permit effective management; and • any change in one of the many complex federal or state laws or regulations that govern any aspect of the financial or business operations of our business and businesses we acquire, such as state escheatment laws. Portfolio purchases and acquisitions may have a short-term material adverse impact on our results of operations, including a potential material adverse impact on our cost of revenues, as we seek to migrate acquired employer clients to our proprietary technology platforms, typically over the succeeding 12 to 24 months, in order to achieve additional operating efficiencies. For example, our cost of revenues in 2012 included additional expenses of $9.1 million due to the purchases of TC and CS. Additionally, from time to time, we may incur material costs related to consolidating our operations following our portfolio purchases and acquisitions. If we are unable to retain and expand our employer client base and establish new channel partnerships, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects would be materially adversely affected. Most of our revenue is derived from the long term, multi-year agreements that we typically enter into with our employer clients. The initial subscription period is typically three years for our larger employer clients, which we refer to as enterprise clients, and one to three years for our small- and medium-sized business, or SMB, clients. We also derive revenue from our channel partner agreement with American Family Life Assurance Company, or Aflac, and we may in the future establish new channel partnerships with other companies. Our employer clients, however, have no obligation to renew their agreements with us after the initial term and we cannot assure you that our employer clients will continue to renew their agreements at the same rate, if at all. Moreover, most of our employer clients have the right to cancel their agreements for convenience, subject to certain notice requirements. While few employer clients have terminated their agreements with us for convenience, some of our employer clients have elected not to renew their agreements with us. Our employer clients’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the prices of competing products or services or reductions in our employer clients’ spending levels. Channel partners are independent and typically offer products of competing companies. They require that we provide competitive prices, products and services which may require a significant amount of investment on our part without a guarantee of a return on our investment. Our ability to grow our business will therefore depend to a degree upon our ability to maintain our existing channel partner relationships and develop new relationships. No assurance 20 Table of Contents can be given that new channel partners will be found, that any such new relationships will be successful when they are in place, or that business with our current channel partners will increase. If our employer clients or channel partners do not renew their agreements with us, and we are unable to attract new employer clients or channel partners, our revenue may decline and our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects may be materially adversely affected. Our business may not grow if our marketing efforts do not successfully raise awareness among employers and employees about the advantages of adopting and participating in CDB programs. Our revenue model is substantially based on the number of employee participants enrolled in the CDB programs that we administer. We devote significant resources to educating both employers and their employees on the potential cost savings available to them from utilizing CDB programs. We have created various marketing, educational and awareness tools to inform employers about the benefits of offering CDB programs to their employees and how our services allow them to offer these benefits in an efficient and cost effective manner. We also provide marketing information to employees that informs them about the potential tax savings they can achieve by utilizing CDB programs to pay for their healthcare, commuter and other benefit needs. However, if more employers and employees do not both become aware of or understand these potential cost savings and choose to adopt CDB programs, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects may be materially adversely affected. Our business may not grow if a greater percentage of employees do not participate in our employer clients’ CDB programs. Our revenue depends on the number of employees who participate in the CDB programs that we sell to our employer clients. If more employees do not participate in these benefit programs for various reasons, including a lack of information about the tax-related advantages of doing so, insufficient funds to set aside pre-tax income into such programs, concerns about forfeiting contributions due to forfeiture provisions in FSA benefit programs, or otherwise, our business may not grow as we anticipate and that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Our business and prospects may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to cross-sell our products and services. A significant component of our growth strategy is the increased cross-selling of products and services to current and future employer clients. In particular, many of our employer clients use only one of our products so we expect our ability to cross-sell our commuter programs to our healthcare program clients and our healthcare programs to our commuter employer clients to be an important part of this strategy. We may not be successful in cross-selling our products and services if our employer clients find our additional products and services to be unnecessary or unattractive. Any failure to sell additional products and services to current and future clients could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. We may be unable to compete effectively against our current and future competitors. The market for our products and services is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. We have numerous competitors, including health insurance carriers, such as Aetna and UHC, human resources consultants and outsourcers, such as Aon Hewitt, payroll providers, such as ADP and Ceridian, national CDB specialists, such as TASC, and regional third party administrators and commercial banks, such as Bank of America. Many of our competitors, including health insurance carriers, have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, some of these competitors may be in a position to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services. 21 Table of Contents In addition, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could materially adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future strategic brokers, insurance carriers, payroll services companies, third party advisors or other parties with which we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our CDB programs with these parties and limiting the number of brokers available to sell or market our programs. Additionally, the cost of switching to a competing product or service may be too low to prevent our employer clients from moving to a competitor’s product or service. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors for any of the foregoing reasons or for any other reasons, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Changes in healthcare laws and other regulations applicable to our business may constrain our ability to offer our products and services. Changes in healthcare or other laws and regulations applicable to our business may occur that could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business, require significant systems enhancement, or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For instance, when the new debit card network exclusivity restrictions set forth in the Durbin Amendment to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act are implemented in April 2013, we will be required to use at least two unaffiliated networks for our prepaid debit cards and the card issuers and networks may pass a portion of the implementation costs of such changes to us. While we do not currently expect that this will have, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse impact on our financial condition or operating results, we will need to continue to monitor the status of this rule as well as other potential changes in laws or regulations that may impact our business as such changes could potentially adversely affect our business, prospects and results of operations. In addition, if the existing law which requires forfeiture of unused flexible spending account balances at the end of the plan year or at the end of an FSA grace period (referred to as the use it or lose it rule) is amended or eliminated, we expect there to be an increased number of participants holding FSAs and we may incur additional costs associated with an increase in personnel in order to accommodate the increased participation rates. There has been an increasing political and regulatory focus on healthcare laws in recent years. While legislation such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act has been signed into law, many of the details necessary to implement the legislation have yet to be defined. For example, any new laws that increase reporting and compliance burdens on employers may make them less likely to offer CDBs to their employees and instead offer employees benefit coverage through state run health insurance exchanges. If employers are less incentivized to offer our CDB programs to employees because of increased regulatory burdens or otherwise, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We plan to extend and expand our products and services and introduce new products and services, and we may not accurately estimate the impact of developing and introducing these products and services on our business. We intend to continue to invest in technology and development to create new and enhanced products and services to offer our employer clients and their participating employees. For example, in 2012, in addition to enhancing our mobile platform, we rolled out a new participant website that includes a technology upgrade, improved navigation, a new look and feel, and mobile and tablet device compatibility. Some of the enhanced capability now available includes the ability for participants to electronically view all claim and receipt images submitted via our participant website or EZ Receipts mobile application. Our health and wellness offerings were also expanded over the past year to include online claims for our wellness product and the integration of a Wellness Portal to provide our users with the most up-to-date health and wellness information. We have limited experience in these areas and so we may not be able to anticipate or manage new risks and obligations or legal, compliance or other requirements that may arise. In addition, the anticipated benefits of these expanded products and services may not outweigh the costs and resources associated with their development. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain new employer clients and increase revenue from existing employer clients will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing products and services and to introduce new products and services. The success of any enhancement or new product or service depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or new product or service. Any new product or service we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new products or services or enhance our existing products or services to meet client requirements, our results of operations, financial condition, business or prospects may be materially adversely affected. If the market for our services does not grow as we anticipate, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects may be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends on increasing the number of employer clients and their employee participants to whom we provide our services. However, there is no guarantee that the market for our services will grow as we expect. For example, the value of our services is directly related to the complexity of administering CDB programs and government action that significantly reduces or simplifies these requirements could reduce demand or pricing for our services. If the market for our services declines or develops more slowly than we expect, or the number of employer clients that select us to provide CDB programs to their employee participants declines or fails to increase as we expect, our revenue, results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, we may not be able to market and sell our products and services successfully. We have expanded our operations significantly in recent years and anticipate that further expansion will be required in order for us to grow our business. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects, and damage our reputation among existing and prospective clients. In order to manage our future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also be required to continue to improve our existing systems for operational and financial information management, including our reporting systems, procedures and controls and regulatory compliance processes. These improvements may require significant capital expenditures and will place increasing demands on our management. We may not be successful in managing or expanding our operations, or in maintaining adequate operating and financial information systems and controls. If we are not successful in implementing improvements in these areas, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects would be materially adversely affected. General economic and other conditions may adversely affect trends in employment and hiring patterns, which could result in lower employee participation in CDB programs, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Our revenue is attributable to the number of employee participants at each of our employer clients, which in turn is influenced by the employment and hiring patterns of our employer clients. To the extent that weak economic conditions cause our employer clients to freeze or reduce their headcount or wages paid, demand for our programs may decrease, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Similarly, our revenue growth opportunities may be negatively affected by such headcount or wage reductions by our potential employer clients. 23 Table of Contents Our business and prospects may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to maintain high levels of service while reducing operating costs. One of the key attributes of our business is providing high quality service to our employer clients and their employee participants. While we have exceeded contractual service levels to our enterprise employer clients each month since May 2007, as our business grows and we service increasing numbers of employer clients and their employee participants, we may be unable to sustain these same levels of service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Alternatively, we may only be able to sustain high levels of service by significantly increasing our operating costs, which would materially adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to maintain these high levels of service performance, our brand and reputation could suffer and our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects would be materially adversely affected. Failure to effectively develop and expand our direct and indirect sales channels may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects and reduce our growth. We will need to continue to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure in order to grow our employer client base and our business. We rely on our enterprise sales force to target new Fortune 1000 client accounts, as well as to cross-sell additional products and services to our existing enterprise clients. Effectively training our sales personnel requires significant time, expense and attention. In addition, we utilize various channel brokers, including insurance agents, benefits consultants, regional and national insurance carriers, health plans, payroll companies, banks and regional TPAs, to sell and market our programs to SMB employers. If we are unable to develop and expand our direct sales teams or these indirect sales channels, our ability to attract new employer clients and cross-sell our programs may be negatively impacted and our growth opportunities will be reduced, each of which would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. If our efforts to develop and expand our direct and indirect sales channels do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business may be materially adversely affected. In particular, if we are unable to effectively train our sales personnel or if our direct sales personnel are unable to achieve expected productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to increase our revenue and grow our business. Long sales cycles make the timing of our long-term revenues difficult to predict. Our average sales cycle ranges from approximately two months for SMBs to six to nine months for our large institutional clients, and, in some cases, even longer depending on the size of the potential client. Factors that may influence the length of our sales cycle include: • the need to educate potential employer clients about the uses and benefits of our CDB programs; • the relatively long duration of the commitment clients make in their agreements with us or with pre-existing plan administrators; • the discretionary nature of potential employer clients’ purchasing and budget cycles and decisions; • the competitive nature of potential employer clients’ evaluation and purchasing processes; • fluctuations in the CDB program needs of potential employer clients; and • lengthy purchasing approval processes of potential employer clients. The fluctuations that result from the length of our sales cycle may be magnified for large- and mid-sized potential employer clients. If we are unable to close an expected significant transaction with one or more of these potential clients in the anticipated period, our operating results for that period, and for any future periods in which revenue from such transaction would otherwise have been recognized, would be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Our business and operational results are subject to seasonality as a result of open enrollment for CDB programs and decreased use of commuter program offerings during typical vacation months. The number of accounts that generate revenue is typically greatest during our first calendar quarter due primarily to three factors. First, new employer clients and their employee participants typically begin service on January 1. Second, during the first calendar quarter, we are also servicing the end of plan year activity for existing clients, including assisting our clients initiate the deduction of healthcare premiums on a tax-deferred basis, and employee participants who do not continue participation into the next plan year. Third, we receive the majority of cash for pre-funded accounts from our employer clients in late December or early January, which results in higher cash balances during our first quarter. Generally, in comparison to other quarters, our revenue is highest in the first quarter and lowest in the second and third quarters. Thereafter, our revenue generally grows gradually in the fourth quarter as our employer clients hire new employees who then elect to participate in our programs, thereby increasing our monthly minimum billing amount. The minimum billing amount is not, however, generally subject to downward revision when employees leave their employers because we continue to administer those former employee participants’ accounts for the remainder of the plan year. Revenue from commuter programs may vary from month-to-month because employees may elect to participate in our commuter programs at any time during the year and may change their election to participate or the amount of their contribution on a monthly basis; however, participation rates in our commuter business typically slow during the summer as people take vacations and do not purchase transit passes or parking passes during that time. Our operating expenses increase during the fourth quarter because of increased debit card production and because we increase our customer support center capacity to answer questions from employee participants during the open enrollment periods related to their CDB participation decisions. The cost of providing services peaks in the first quarter as new employee participants contact us for information about their CDBs, and as terminating employee participants submit their final claims for reimbursement. Our operating results can fluctuate from period-to-period, which could cause our share price to fluctuate. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause our stock price to decline rapidly, may lead analysts to change their long-term models for valuing our common stock, could cause short-term liquidity issues, may impact our ability to retain or attract key personnel or cause other anticipated issues. If our quarterly operating results or guidance fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our quarterly operating expenses and operating results may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. If employee participants do not continue to utilize our prepaid debit cards, our results of operations, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We derive a portion of our revenue from interchange fees that are paid to us when employee participants utilize our prepaid debit cards to pay for certain healthcare and commuter expenses under CDB programs. These fees represent a percentage of the expenses transacted on each debit card. If our employer clients do not adopt these prepaid debit cards as part of the benefits programs they offer, if the employee participants do not use them at the rate we expect, or if other alternatives to prepaid tax-advantaged benefit cards develop, our results of operations, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand and reputation, our ability to sustain and grow our business may be materially adversely affected. Maintaining and strengthening our brand is critical to attracting new clients and growing our business. Our ability to maintain and strengthen our brand and reputation will depend heavily on our capacity to continue to provide high levels of customer service to our employer clients and their employee participants at cost effective 25 Table of Contents and competitive prices, which we may not do successfully. In addition, our continued success depends, in part, on our reputation as an industry leader in promoting awareness and understanding of the positive impact of CDBs among employers and employees. If we fail to successfully maintain and strengthen our brand, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects will be materially adversely affected. Some plan providers with which we have relationships also provide, or may provide, competing services. We face competitive risks in situations where some of our strategic partners are also current or potential competitors. For example, certain of the banks we utilize as custodians for our prepaid debit card funds also offer their own HSA products. To the extent that these partners choose to offer competing products and services that they have developed or in which they have an interest to our current or potential clients, our results of operations, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to complex regulation, and any compliance failures or regulatory action could materially adversely affect our business. The plans we administer and, as a result, our business are subject to extensive, complex and continually changing federal and state laws and regulations, including IRS regulations, ERISA, privacy and HIPAA regulations and Department of Labor regulations, all of which are further described in “Business—Government Regulation” below. If we fail to comply with any applicable law, rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines and penalties, indemnification claims by our clients, or become the subject of a Department of Labor enforcement action, each of which would materially adversely affect our business and reputation. We may also become subject to additional regulatory and compliance requirements as a result of changes in laws or regulations, or as a result of any expansion or enhancement of our existing products and services or any new products or services we may offer in the future. For example, if we expand our product and service offerings into the health insurance market in the future, we would become subject to state Department of Insurance regulations. Compliance with any new regulatory requirements may divert internal resources and take significant time and effort. Any claims of noncompliance brought against us, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, could subject us to investigation by the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Treasury Department or other federal and state regulatory authorities, which could result in substantial costs to us and divert management’s attention and other resources away from our operations. In addition, investor perceptions of us may suffer and could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our compliance processes may not be sufficient to prevent assertions that we failed to comply with any applicable law, rule or regulation. Failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of participant data could lead to legal liability, adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business or financial condition. We must collect, store and use employee participants’ confidential information, including the transmission of that data to third parties, to provide our services. For example, we collect names, addresses, social security numbers and other personally identifiable information from employee participants. In addition, we facilitate the issuance and funding of prepaid debit cards and, in some cases, collect bank routing information, account numbers and personal credit card information for purposes of funding an account or issuing a reimbursement. We have invested significantly in preserving the security of this data. In addition, we outsource customer support center services and claims processing services to third-party subcontractors to whom we transmit certain confidential information of our employee participants. We have security measures in place with each of these subcontractors to protect this confidential information, including 26 Table of Contents written agreements that outline how protected health information will be handled and shared. However, there are no assurances that these measures, or any additional security measures that our subcontractors may have in place, will be sufficient to protect this outsourced confidential information from unauthorized security breaches. We cannot assure you that, despite the implementation of these security measures, we will not be subject to a security breach or that this data will not be compromised. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches, or to pay penalties as a result of such breaches. Despite our implementation of security measures, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures to protect this data. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security could damage our reputation with our clients and brokers, and could subject us to significant liability, as well as regulatory action, including financial penalties, which would materially adversely affect our brand, results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Privacy concerns could require us to modify our operations. As part of our business, we collect employee participants’ personal data for the sole purpose of processing their benefits. For privacy or security reasons, privacy groups, governmental agencies and individuals may seek to restrict or prevent our use of this data. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. Increased domestic or international regulation of data utilization and distribution practices, including self-regulation, could require us to modify our operations and incur significant additional expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. If we fail to effectively upgrade our information technology systems, our business and operations could be disrupted. As part of our efforts to continue the improvement of our enterprise resource planning, we plan to upgrade our existing information technology systems in order to automate several controls that are currently performed manually. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to these upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as personnel work to become familiar with these new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and as our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems or respond to changes in our business needs, we may not be able to effectively manage our business and we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. Our future success depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees, including our executive officers. Our success is substantially dependent upon the performance of our senior management, such as our chief executive officer. Our management and employees may terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of the services of any of our executive officers could materially adversely affect our business. Our success is also substantially dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects would be materially adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents We might require additional capital to support business growth in the future, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, combined with our credit line and expected cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements, as well as anticipated requirements for potential additional portfolio purchases, for at least the next 12 months. Our business and operations may, however, consume resources faster than we currently anticipate. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth, including through additional portfolio purchases of complementary businesses, and may require additional funds in the future to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features and platforms, enhance our existing programs or improve our operating infrastructure. Accordingly, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional debt financing. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential portfolio purchases. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing and there can be no assurances that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Changes in credit card association or other network rules or standards set by Visa or MasterCard, or changes in card association and debit network fees or products or interchange rates, could materially adversely affect our results of operations, business and financial position. We, and the banks that issue our prepaid debit cards, are subject to Visa and MasterCard association rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks for acts or omissions by us or businesses that work with us, including card processors, such as Fidelity National Information Services. The termination of the card association registrations held by us or any of the banks that issue our cards, or any changes in card association or other debit network rules or standards, including interpretation and implementation of existing rules or standards that increase the cost of doing business or limit our ability to provide our products and services, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. In addition, from time-to-time, card associations increase the organization or processing fees that they charge, which could increase our operating expenses, reduce our profit margin and materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected if we experience unanticipated delays in rollouts by our employer clients of services to their employee participants. We generally do not earn fees from our employer clients until our services are available to their employee participants. If our infrastructure capacity is insufficient to meet our needs, we may experience delays in deploying our programs to new employer clients, or expanding the services we offer to existing employer clients, and on-boarding their employee participants. If the rollout of our services to our employer clients and, subsequently, their employee participants is delayed, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into outsourcing and other agreements with third parties related to certain of our business operations, and any difficulties experienced in these arrangements could result in additional expense, loss of revenue or an interruption of our services. We have entered into outsourcing agreements with third parties to provide certain customer service and related support functions to our employer clients and their participant employees. As a result, we rely on third parties over which we have limited control to perform certain of our operations. If these third parties are unable 28 Table of Contents to perform to our requirements or to provide the level of service required or expected by our employer clients and their employee participants, our operating results, financial condition, business, prospects and reputation may be materially harmed and we may be forced to pursue alternative strategies to provide these services, which could result in delays, interruptions, additional expenses and loss of clients and related revenues. If our intellectual property and technology are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, our business and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in the United States. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and our trademarks and copyrights may be held invalid or unenforceable. We may not be effective in policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property, and even if we do detect violations, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time consuming and expensive, could divert our management’s attention and may result in a court determining that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable. If we are not successful in cost-effectively protecting our intellectual property rights, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited. As of December 31, 2012, we had $38.2 million of federal and $36.9 million of state net operating loss carryforwards available to offset future taxable income. These net operating loss carryforwards will expire beginning in 2023 through 2029 for U.S. federal income tax purposes and beginning in 2017 through 2031 for state income tax purposes, if not fully utilized. In addition, we have federal and state research and development credit carryforwards of approximately $2.6 million and $1.4 million respectively. The federal research credit carryforwards expire beginning in 2022 through 2031, if not fully utilized. The California research credit carries forward indefinitely. Our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards are subject to limitations in the event of an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) of 1986, as amended, and similar state tax law. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). The Company completed Section 382 studies through December 31, 2011, and updated the analysis encompassing all common stock transactions through October 9, 2012, the date of the Company’s follow-on public offering. There were no material common stock transactions between October 9, 2012 and December 31, 2012 that would have caused another ownership change. The ownership change did not result in a limitation of the Company’s utilization of its net operating loss or in its research and development credits expiring unused. If one or more jurisdictions successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect additional sales and use taxes on our fees, we could be subject to additional liability with respect to past or future sales and the results of our operations could be adversely affected. We do not collect sales and use taxes in all jurisdictions in which our employer clients are located, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable. Sales and use tax laws and rates vary by jurisdiction and such laws are subject to interpretation. Jurisdictions in which we do not collect sales and use taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in the assessment of such taxes, interest and penalties, and we could be required to collect such taxes in the future. This additional sales and use tax liability could adversely affect the results of our operations. 29 Table of Contents Third parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our services may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may subject us to legal liability and materially adversely affect our reputation. Assertion of intellectual property infringement claims against us could result in litigation. We might not prevail in any such litigation or be able to obtain a license for the use of any infringed intellectual property from a third party on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if obtained, we may be unable to protect such licenses from infringement or misuse, or prevent infringement claims against us in connection with our licensing efforts. Any such claims, regardless of their merit or ultimate outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention and our resources away from our operations and otherwise adversely affect our reputation. Our process for controlling our own employees’ use of third-party proprietary information may not be sufficient to prevent assertions of intellectual property infringement claims against us. We rely on insurance to mitigate some risks of our business and, to the extent the cost of insurance increases or we maintain insufficient coverage, our results of operations, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We contract for insurance to cover a portion of our potential business risks and liabilities. In the current environment, insurance companies are increasingly specific about what they will and will not insure. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay very high prices for the coverage we do obtain or may not acquire any insurance for certain types of business risk. This could leave us exposed, and to the extent we incur liabilities and expenses for which we are not adequately insured, our results of operations, business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Also, to the extent the cost of maintaining insurance increases, our operating expenses will rise, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. VantagePoint Capital Partners holds a high percentage of our common stock, which may limit the ability of our public stockholders to affect significant corporate actions. As of December 31, 2012, funds affiliated with VantagePoint Capital Partners, or VantagePoint, held approximately 36.8% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, we and VantagePoint are parties to a stockholder agreement related to a number of board of directors, stockholder and related governance matters. The stockholder agreement provides that the following actions by us require the approval of VantagePoint for so long as VantagePoint owns 25% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock: • any amendment of our bylaws; • the issuance of any securities with economic rights senior to our common stock or with voting rights different than our common stock, subject to certain exceptions; • the incurrence or guarantee of any debt in excess of $20.0 million; • the issuance of equity or debt, or any securities convertible into equity or debt, for consideration in excess of 12.5% of our market capitalization; • the acquisition or disposition of stock or assets, including through a license or lease, for consideration in excess of 12.5% of our market capitalization; • the adoption of a stockholder rights plan; • the approval of any “golden parachute” or other compensatory plan contingent upon a change in control of us for any of our executive officers valued in excess of $1 million for an individual officer or $5 million for a group of officers, at the time such compensatory arrangement is adopted; or • any change in the number of authorized directors. 30 Table of Contents Accordingly, our ability to engage in significant transactions, such as a merger, acquisition or liquidation, is limited without the consent of VantagePoint. Conflicts of interest could arise between us and VantagePoint, and any conflict of interest may be resolved in a manner that does not favor us. VantagePoint may decide not to consent to a transaction in which you would receive consideration for your common shares that is higher than the cost to you or the then-current market price of those shares. Any decision that VantagePoint may make at some future time regarding their ownership of us will be in their absolute discretion. In addition, our stockholder agreement with VantagePoint and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide the following additional rights to VantagePoint: • so long as VantagePoint owns more than 30% of our outstanding voting stock, a special meeting of our stockholders may be called by either VantagePoint or any two members of our board of directors, whether or not VantagePoint designees; • so long as VantagePoint owns more than 40% of our outstanding voting stock, our stockholders may act by written consent to change the number of authorized directors, remove a director without cause or fill a vacancy on our board of directors (following the closing of our follow-on offering on October 9, 2012, VantagePoint held approximately 31.8% of our outstanding common stock); • we may not amend any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws relating to VantagePoint’s rights without VantagePoint’s consent; and • VantagePoint and its representatives will have access to our books and records, subject to customary confidentiality and non-disclosure provisions. VantagePoint has the right to designate (and remove or replace) three of the members of our board of directors if VantagePoint owns at least 50% or more of our outstanding shares, two members of our board of directors if VantagePoint owns between 20% and 50% of our outstanding shares, and one member of our board of directors if VantagePoint owns between 10% and 20% of our outstanding shares (following the closing of our follow-on offering on October 9, 2012, VantagePoint held approximately 31.8% of our outstanding common stock). VantagePoint also has the right to select one of its board designees to serve on our compensation committee, our nominating and corporate governance committee and any other special committee of our board of directors, so long as it continues to hold at least 10% of our outstanding shares. VantagePoint is not prohibited from selling its interest in us to a third party. We will continue to incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations that affect public companies, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. As a public company and particularly after we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements. These requirements include compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE. In addition, our management team will also have to continue to adapt to the requirements of being a public company. We expect that compliance with these rules and regulations will substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The increased costs associated with operating as a public company will decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. 31 Table of Contents However, for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act, we plan to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may continue to take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years from the date of our initial public offering, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31, or if we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” immediately. As a public company, we also expect that it may be more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. As a public company, we are required to maintain a system of effective control over financial reporting. In the past significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting have been identified. If our internal controls are not effective, there may be errors in our financial information that could require a restatement or delay our SEC filings, and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. We have, in the past, experienced issues with our internal control over financial reporting. For example, three significant deficiencies were identified in internal controls in connection with the preparation of our financial statements and the audit of our financial results for 2010. We had significant deficiencies relating to: the completion of our financial reporting cycle within the expected period and our ability to produce reliable financial statements in the period that would normally be expected of a public company; our ability to timely integrate accounting functions of certain of our portfolio purchases; and certain inconsistencies and omissions in some of our key documents and agreements. The lack of timely financial reporting involved adjustments of a bonus accrual that was not timely made and the number of errors, missing disclosures and incorrect numbers in the financial statements we delivered to our independent registered public accounts for audit. The inability to timely integrate the accounting function of portfolio purchases related to our inability through March 2011 to reconcile an opening balance sheet for our PBS acquisition on August 31, 2010. The inconsistencies and omissions in key documents related to certain agreements that were not appropriately documented or referred to other agreements that did not exist, including agreements relating to our acquisition of the CDB assets of FBM. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements and the audit of our financial results for 2011, it was determined that we remediated the significant deficiency relating to lack of timely financial reporting and reliable financial statements by the hiring of additional qualified accounting personnel. It was also determined that we remediated the significant deficiency related to inconsistencies and omissions in some of our key documents and agreements. Since we did not complete any portfolio purchases in 2011, we were unable to remediate the significant deficiency with respect to timely integration of the accounting function of portfolio purchases in 2011; however, in connection with the preparation of our financial statements and the audit of our financial results for 2012, it was determined that we remediated this significant deficiency by assessing earlier the accounting function at the company from which the portfolio is purchased and allocation of needed resources, including the hiring of consultants, to assure timely integration. For example, for the acquisition and portfolio purchases that we have 32 Table of Contents completed in 2012, we have assigned a full-time accounting resource and a consultant to lead the accounting integration of CS, TC and BCI. It is possible that we may discover significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial information. Any such delays or restatements could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price. We will not be required to comply with certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company.” As long as we remain an “emerging growth company” we will not be required to comply with certain of the SEC rules that implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and require us to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Though we will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 before that time, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31, or if we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” immediately. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we plan to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An “emerging growth company” can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we are choosing to “opt out” of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. 33 Table of Contents Our stock price has been volatile, may continue to be and may decline regardless of our financial performance. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; • the financial projections we provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; • ratings changes by any securities analysts who follow our company; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other newly public companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the global economy; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for newly public companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. If securities class action litigation is instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources and could materially adversely affect our operating results. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, preventing or rendering more difficult an acquisition of us if such acquisition is deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions that: • create a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; • authorize “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by the board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limit the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; • limit the ability of stockholders to act by written consent to such periods during which VantagePoint Capital Partners and its affiliates hold 40% or more of our outstanding common stock; 34 Table of Contents • require advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; • control the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings; and • provide the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent unsolicited takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our existing credit facility prohibits us from paying cash dividends, and any future financing agreements may prohibit us from paying any type of dividends. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 