RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Advantest’s Business Advantest’s business and results of operations are subject to significant demand volatility in the semiconductor industry Advantest’s business depends largely upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, foundries and test houses. These companies, in turn, determine their capital expenditure and investment levels largely based on current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products incorporating semiconductors. Such demand is influenced significantly by the overall condition of the global economy. Historically, the percentage reduction in capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers during downturns in the semiconductor industry, including investment in semiconductor test systems, has typically been much greater than the percentage reduction in worldwide sales of semiconductors. The semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of excess inventory, which often have had a severe effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for semiconductor test systems, including those of Advantest. In particular, the market for memory semiconductors shows higher demand volatility as compared to non memory semiconductors. In fiscal 2008, the economic downturn and the slowdown in the semiconductor market both became more pronounced, and Advantest’s net sales of test systems for memory semiconductors decreased by ¥75,252 million (81.0%) from fiscal 2007 to ¥17,644 million, and in fiscal 2009 decreased by ¥5,200 million (29.5%) from fiscal 2008 to ¥12,444 million. Advantest’s overall net sales in fiscal 2008 decreased by ¥106,115 million (58.1%) from fiscal 2007 to ¥76,652 million, and in fiscal 2009 decreased by ¥23,427 million (30.6%) from fiscal 2008 to ¥53,225 million, primarily due to lower sales of test systems for memory semiconductors. Any downturn in the memory semiconductor market will therefore likely continue to adversely affect Advantest’s business. The worldwide semiconductor market grew by 6.8%, 8.9% and 3.2% in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2008 and 2009, the semiconductor market contracted by 2.8% and 9.0%, respectively, compared to the previous year, reflecting the global economic downturn that stemmed from the financial crisis. Worldwide sales of memory semiconductors increased by 2.9% and 20.5% in 2005 and 2006, respectively, on a year-to-year basis, primarily due to the increase in demand for flash memory semiconductors used in digital consumer products and for DRAM semiconductors used in personal computers. Worldwide sales of memory semiconductors, however, declined slightly by 1.1% in 2007, mainly due to a substantial reduction in capital expenditure by semiconductor manufacturers reflecting a substantial decline in the price of DRAM semiconductors and NAND-type flash memory semiconductors. Moreover, worldwide sales of memory semiconductors in 2008 decreased by 19.9% compared to 2007, primarily due to the substantial decline in the price of memory semiconductors. Although the markets for personal computers and cellular phones including smart phones remained steady in 2009, worldwide sales of memory semiconductors in 2009 declined by 3.3% compared to 2008 reflecting the global economic downturn, resulting in negative growth for two consecutive years. Worldwide sales of non memory semiconductors increased by 7.9% in 2005. Furthermore, in 2006 and 2007, demand in the consumer market and automobile market stabilized and the data processing market were strong. Accordingly, worldwide sales of non memory semiconductors grew by 5.7% and 4.5% in 2006 and 2007, respectively. Worldwide sales of non memory semiconductors in 2008 increased by 2.3% from 2007, primarily due to steady demand for mobile PCs despite the deterioration in the overall condition of the global economy. In 2009, worldwide sales of non memory semiconductors decreased by 10.3% compared to 2008, primarily as a result of the impact of the global economic downturn stemming from the financial crisis that started in 2008. 4 Table of Contents The significant demand volatility of the market for semiconductors is affected by various factors such as: • the overall state of the global economy; • demand in personal computer and server industries; • consumer demand for digital consumer products such as flat-panel TVs, DVD/Blu-ray disc recorders, portable audio players and electronic books; • levels of investment in communications infrastructure and trends in the mobile telecommunications industry; • demand in the automobile industry; and • trends in the semiconductor industry. Advantest’s net sales in fiscal 2005 increased by 6.0% as compared with the previous fiscal year to ¥253,922 million, and net income achieved ¥41,374 million, reflecting the overall completion of adjustment of excess inventory on the part of semiconductor manufacturers. However, net sales in fiscal 2006 declined mainly as a result of a decrease in the price of semiconductors and, as a result, net sales for fiscal 2006 were ¥235,012 million, representing a 7.4% decrease compared to fiscal 2005, and net income decreased by 14.1% as compared to fiscal 2005 to ¥35,556 million. The substantial decline in the price of semiconductors continued through fiscal 2007 and many semiconductor manufacturers froze or postponed their capital expenditures. Primarily reflecting the foregoing, net sales in fiscal 2007 decreased by 22.2%, as compared to fiscal 2006, to ¥182,767 million, and net income decreased by 53.5%, as compared to fiscal 2006, to ¥16,550 million. Furthermore, in fiscal 2008, the global economic downturn that stemmed from the financial crisis led semiconductor manufacturers to maintain their prudent position, with many implementing inventory adjustments and freezing or postponing their capital expenditures. Primarily reflecting the foregoing, Advantest’s net sales decreased by 58.1% as compared with fiscal 2007 to ¥76,652 million, and Advantest recorded a net loss of ¥74,902 million in fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2009, the semiconductor manufactures gradually resumed capital expenditures as semiconductor prices rose and equipment utilization rates climbed. Despite the gradual recovery in fiscal 2009, Advantest’s net sales in fiscal 2009 decreased by 30.6%, as compared to fiscal 2008, to ¥53,225 million, and Advantest recorded a net loss of ¥11,454 million in fiscal 2009 primarily due to the drop in orders seen in late fiscal 2008. Advantest believes that its results are significantly impacted by the significant demand volatility of the semiconductor industry. Significant downturns in the semiconductor industry are likely to therefore adversely affect financial condition and results of operations. Advantest is unable to predict trends in the semiconductor industry going forward, and Advantest’s financial condition and results of operations may be affected adversely if the demand for semiconductor test systems remains weak or further weakens beyond Advantest’s expectations as a result of a further downturn in the semiconductor industry. The price of semiconductors, which have decreased significantly in recent years, may not return to their original levels if, for example, the over-supply of semiconductors persists. Should semiconductor prices remain at low levels, semiconductor manufacturers’ earnings could deteriorate, resulting in their further restraint towards capital expenditures, and Advantest’s results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure by Advantest to meet demand for its products upon a significant expansion in the semiconductor and component test systems and mechatronics systems markets may adversely affect its future market share and financial results In response to the global economic downturn following the financial crisis, suppliers have typically adjusted their production capacity through the reduction of production line and personnel. If the market for semiconductor and component test systems and mechatronics systems were to suddenly expand, Advantest would require significant increases in production capabilities including personnel, as well as materials, components and supplies from suppliers, in order to fully capitalize on such expansion. The failure of Advantest to adjust to such 5 Table of Contents unanticipated increases in demand for its products during the period of recovery in demand could result in Advantest losing one or more of its existing large-volume customers or losing the opportunity to establish a strong relationship with potential large-volume customers with which it currently does little or no business. Such failure may adversely affect Advantest’s future market share and its financial results. If Advantest does not introduce new products meeting its customers’ technical requirements in a timely manner and at competitive prices, its products may become obsolete and its financial condition and results of operations may suffer Advantest sells its products to several industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, the frequent introduction of new products and services, varying and unpredictable product lifecycles and evolving industry standards. Advantest anticipates that future demand for its products will be driven, in large part, by technological innovation in semiconductor technology, which create new testing requirements that are not adequately addressed by currently installed semiconductor test systems. Customer needs in response to these technological innovations, and their need for greater cost-effectiveness and efficiency to respond to the market environment, include: • investment by memory semiconductor manufacturers in facilities that are used to produce memory semiconductors, such as flash memory, DDR3-SDRAM and the next generation DDR4-SDRAM; • the introduction of non memory semiconductors that incorporate more advanced memory semiconductors, logic and analog circuits; • investment by semiconductor manufacturers in mechatronics related products which transport devices faster, more accurately and more stably; • the utilization of testing technologies that employ self-test circuit designs incorporated into semiconductor chips; • introduction of mechatronics products that respond to reduced testing time resulting from advances in customers’ back-end testing; • prompt response and quick repair in the event of failure; and • total solutions that allow customers to reduce their testing costs. Advantest also believes demand for its products, including semiconductor and component test systems, are affected by the level of demand for personal computers, high-speed wireless and wireline data services and digital consumer products. It is likely that advances in technologies used in those products and services will require new testing systems. Without the timely introduction of semiconductor test systems capable of effectively testing and measuring equipment that use new technologies, Advantest’s products and services may become technologically obsolete over time. A failure by Advantest to meet its customers’ technical requirements at competitive prices or to deliver conforming equipment in a timely manner may result in its products being replaced by those of a competitor or an alternative technology solution. Furthermore, Advantest’s inability to provide a product that meets requested performance criteria at an acceptable price when required by its customers would severely damage its reputation with those customers and may adversely affect future sales efforts with respect to those customers. Advantest’s dependence on certain subcontractors and its dependence on a sole source or a limited number of suppliers for its components and parts may prevent it from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis Advantest relies on subcontractors to perform some of the assembly requirements for its products. In addition, many of the components used in Advantest’s semiconductor and component test systems and 6 Table of Contents mechatronics systems are produced by suppliers based on Advantest’s specifications. Advantest’s reliance on these subcontractors and suppliers gives it less control over the manufacturing process and exposes it to significant risks, especially inadequate manufacturing capacity, late delivery, substandard quality, lack of labor availability and high costs. In addition, Advantest depends on a sole source or a limited number of suppliers for a portion of its components and parts. Advantest does not maintain long-term supply agreements with most of its suppliers, and it purchases most of its components and parts through individual purchase orders. If suppliers become unable to provide components or parts in the volumes needed and at acceptable prices, Advantest would have to identify and procure acceptable replacements. Furthermore, the markets for semiconductors and other specialized components have, in the past, experienced periods of inadequate supply to meet demand. The process of selecting subcontractors or suppliers and of identifying suitable replacement components and parts is lengthy and may result in Advantest being unable to deliver products meeting customer requirements in a timely manner. Advantest has, in the past, been unable to deliver its products according to production schedules primarily due to the inability of suppliers to supply components and parts based on Advantest’s specifications and by other shortages in components and parts. Moreover, a deterioration in the financial position of Advantest’s subcontractors or suppliers reflecting the decline in the economic environment may result in certain subcontractors and suppliers being unable to meet Advantest’s requirements. Advantest faces substantial competition in its businesses and, if Advantest does not maintain or expand its market share, its business may be harmed Advantest faces substantial competition throughout the world Advantest’s primary competitors in the semiconductor and component test system market include, among others, Teradyne, Inc., Verigy Ltd., LTX-Credence Corporation, Yokogawa Electronic Corporation, FROM30 CO., LTD., EXICON Ltd. and UniTest Inc. In the mechatronics system related market, Advantest also competes with Delta Design, Inc., Seiko Epson Corporation, Mirae Corporation and TechWing, Inc. in test handler devices, and with TSE Co., Ltd. and Secron Co., Ltd. in device interfaces. Some of Advantest’s competitors have greater financial and other resources than Advantest. Advantest faces many challenges in its businesses, including increased pressure from customers to produce semiconductor and component test systems and mechatronics systems that reduce testing costs. To compete effectively and maintain and expand its market share, Advantest must continue to enhance its business processes to lower the cost of its products, as well as introduce enhancements that lower overall testing costs. Advantest also expects its competitors to continue to introduce new products with improvements in price and performance, as well as to increase their customer service and support offerings, and Advantest expects new market participants to launch low-price testers. Significant increases in competition may erode Advantest’s profit margin and weaken its earnings. Advantest’s product lines are facing significant price pressure Price pressure in Advantest’s businesses is adversely affecting Advantest’s operating margins. Irrespective of the trend in the demand for semiconductors, there is ongoing price pressure on semiconductors, which puts continuous pressure on the market price for products in the Semiconductor and Component Test System Segment and Mechatronics System Segment. Especially with the ongoing slowdown in the semiconductor industry, price pressure is salient. During these periods, semiconductor manufacturers and test houses, which are Advantest’s customers, seek to increase their production capacities while minimizing their capital expenditures. In addition, increased competition in the market for digital consumer products and personal computers has driven down prices of these goods, subsequently creating significant price pressure on Advantest’s product lines. An increase in price pressure may adversely affect Advantest’s future financial condition and results of operations. Advantest may not recoup costs incurred in the development of new products Enhancements to existing products and the development of new generations of products are, in most cases, costly processes. Furthermore, because the decision to purchase semiconductor and component test systems 7 Table of Contents products and mechatronics systems generally involves a significant commitment of capital, the sale of this equipment typically involves a lengthy sales period and requires Advantest to expend substantial funds and sales efforts to secure the sale. Advantest’s enhancements or new generations of products may not generate net sales in excess of development and sales costs if, for example, these new enhancements or products are quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, the introduction by Advantest’s competitors of products embodying new technologies or features, the introduction by Advantest’s customers of new products that require different testing functions or the failure of the market for Advantest’s customer’s products to grow at the rate, or to the levels, anticipated by Advantest. This risk is believed to be particularly acute with respect to test systems for non memory semiconductors because, in general, new non memory semiconductor product lines are introduced to market more frequently than new memory semiconductor product lines. In some cases, Advantest must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of its customers’ products. This requires Advantest to make significant investments in product development well before it determines the commercial viability of these innovations. If Advantest’s customers fail to introduce their devices in a timely manner or the market rejects their devices, Advantest may not recover its investments in product development through sales in significant volume. The market for Advantest’s major products is highly concentrated, and Advantest may not be able to increase sales of its products because of limited opportunities The market for test systems for memory semiconductors in the Semiconductor and Component Test System Segment is highly concentrated, with a small number of large semiconductor manufacturers, foundries and test houses accounting for a large portion of total sales in the semiconductor and component test system industry. Advantest believes that this market concentration could become even more severe in the future as larger semiconductor device manufacturers, foundries and test houses acquire smaller semiconductor market participants, and as corporate restructuring, such as elimination and consolidation of businesses, progresses. Advantest’s ability to increase sales will depend in large part upon its ability to obtain or increase orders from large-volume customers. Furthermore, in the event there is an over-supply of semiconductor and component test system products on the second-hand market reflecting, among others, restructuring within the industry, Advantest faces an additional risk of losing its sales opportunities. Advantest’s largest customers currently account for a significant part of its net sales and, in addition to the risk of Advantest’s business being harmed by the loss of one or more of these customers or changes in their capital expenditures, Advantest may not be able to recover its accounts receivables if its largest customers experience a deterioration in their financial position Advantest’s success depends on its continued ability to develop and manage relationships with its major customers, a small number of which currently account for a significant portion of its net sales. Sales to Advantest’s largest customer as a percentage of its total sales were approximately 9% in fiscal 2007, approximately 24% in fiscal 2008 and approximately 20% in fiscal 2009. Sales to Advantest’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 32% in fiscal 2007, approximately 51% in fiscal 2008 and approximately 43% in fiscal 2009. The loss of one or more of these major customers or changes in their capital expenditures could materially harm Advantest’s business. Furthermore, if Advantest’s major customers experience a deterioration in their financial position and are unable to fulfill their payment obligations to Advantest in accordance with the applicable terms, Advantest’s business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in exchange rates could reduce Advantest’s profitability The majority of Advantest’s net sales derive from products sold to customers located outside of Japan. Approximately 78% of Advantest’s fiscal 2009 net sales were from products sold to overseas customers. Most of Advantest’s products are manufactured in Japan, but approximately 38% of Advantest’s net sales in fiscal 2009 were made in currencies other than the Japanese yen, predominantly the U.S. dollar. A strengthening in the 8 Table of Contents Japanese yen relative to foreign currencies (mostly U.S. dollar and, to a much lesser extent, other currencies) would increase the prices of Advantest products as stated in U.S. dollars and in those other currencies, which could hurt sales in those countries. In addition, significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and foreign currencies, especially the U.S. dollar, could require Advantest to lower its prices with respect to foreign sales of its products that are priced in Japanese yen, and reduce the Japanese yen equivalent amounts of its foreign sales for products that are based in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies, and overall reducing its profitability. These fluctuations could also cause prospective customers to push out or delay orders because of the increased relative cost of Advantest’s products. In the past, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the foreign countries in which Advantest’s sales are denominated. If Advantest’s main facilities for research and development, production or information technology systems for all of its businesses, or the facilities of its subcontractors and suppliers, were to experience catastrophic loss, its results of operations would be seriously harmed Advantest’s main facilities for research and development for its Semiconductor and Component Test Systems and Mechatronics System Segments production, as well as many of Advantest’s service bases, are located in Japan and particularly concentrated in Gunma Prefecture and Saitama Prefecture. In addition, the main system server and the network hub are maintained in system centers approved by the Information System Management System, or ISMS, and local network servers are located in certain operations offices in Japan. Japan suffers from relatively frequent earthquakes. If Advantest’s facilities, particularly its semiconductor and component test system manufacturing factories, were to experience a catastrophic loss, it would materially disrupt Advantest’s operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities. Advantest has insurance to cover most potential losses at its manufacturing facilities, other than those that result from earthquakes. However, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all possible losses. Similar disruptions to Advantest’s business may occur if the facilities of Advantest’s subcontractors and suppliers or if the facilities of Advantest’s information system network were to experience a catastrophic loss. Advantest has prepared itself for crises such as large-scale natural disasters, and each department of Advantest has documented its own disaster procedures and manuals. Furthermore, in order to prevent any disruption of its core businesses, or in case of suspension, to re-start the suspended businesses, including the recovery of important facilities, in the shortest possible time, Advantest has formulated and is in the process of implementing a “Business Continuity Plan.” However, if Advantest cannot implement such Business Continuity Plan, or if upon implementation such Business Continuity Plan is not effective, Advantest’s core businesses could be disrupted at a time of crisis, such as large-scale natural disasters, and could take a substantial amount of time to recover. Advantest’s business is subject to economic, political and other risks associated with international operations and sales Advantest’s business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally because it sells its products, and purchases parts and components from, around the world. In fiscal 2009, 64.2% of Advantest’s total net sales came from Asia (excluding Japan), a majority of which consisted of sales in Taiwan, the People’s Republic of China and Korea, 9.3% from the Americas and 4.0% from Europe. Advantest anticipates that net sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of its total net sales. In addition, some of Advantest’s distribution and support subsidiaries are located in the Americas, Europe, and Asian countries including Singapore, Taiwan, the People’s Republic of China and Korea and some of Advantest’s suppliers are also located overseas. Accordingly, Advantest’s future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • political and economic instability, natural calamities, epidemics or other risks related to countries where Advantest procures its components and parts or sells its products; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; 9 Table of Contents • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • risks with respect to international taxation, including transfer pricing regulations; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable because of distance and different legal rules; and • risks with respect to social and political crises resulting from terrorism and war, among others. Advantest’s financial condition and results of operations are subject to factors relating to its marketing and sales capabilities and its branding Advantest’s financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected by factors relating to its marketing and sales capabilities and its branding, including: • the long selling process involved in the sale of semiconductor and component test systems; • the relatively small number of total units sold in the semiconductor and component test system market; • order cancellations or delays by customers; • delays in collection of, or increases in provisions for, accounts receivable reflecting the financial condition of customers; • increases in required provisions for product warranty costs and write-downs of inventory; and • any real or perceived decrease in performance and reliability of Advantest products, which could lead to a decline in Advantest’s reputation. Chemicals used by Advantest may become subject to more stringent regulations, and Advantest may be required to incur significant costs in adapting to new requirements Advantest uses chemicals in the manufacturing of its products, the manufacture, processing and distribution of which are subject to environmental related laws, regulations and rules of Japanese governmental agencies, as well as by various industry organizations and other regulatory bodies in other countries. These regulatory bodies may strengthen existing regulations governing chemicals used by Advantest and may also begin to regulate other chemicals used by Advantest. While Advantest is taking measures to eliminate toxic substances included in parts used to manufacture its products, Advantest uses solder which contains lead for mounting electronic parts and components for its products in order to ensure the reliability of its products as a matter of priority. Further, as a method to cool some of its semiconductor and component test systems, Advantest uses a type of perfluorocarbon, or PFC, that is not currently regulated by laws related to global warming. Advantest believes that it is in compliance with regulations with respect to the use of chemicals by promoting environmental policies for its products with the focus on ensuring the safety and the reliability of its products; however, Advantest must be prepared to adapt to regulatory requirements in all relevant countries as requirements change. Advantest may be required to incur significant cost in adapting to new requirements. Any failure by Advantest to comply with applicable government or industry regulations could result in restrictions on its ability to carry on or expand its operations, including being unable to sell its products. Advantest could suffer significant liabilities, litigation costs or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling its products if it is infringing the intellectual property of third parties Advantest may be unknowingly infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties and may be held responsible for that infringement. To date, Advantest has not been the subject of a material intellectual property claim. However, any future litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property infringement could be costly 10 Table of Contents and time consuming and divert management and key personnel from Advantest’s business operations. If Advantest loses a claim, it might be forced to pay significant damages, pay license fees, modify its products or processes, stop making products or stop using processes. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Changing Advantest’s products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of third parties may be costly or impractical. Advantest may be unable to protect its proprietary rights due to the difficulty of Advantest gaining access to, and investigating, the products believed to infringe Advantest’s intellectual property rights Advantest relies on patents, utility model rights, design rights, trademarks and copyrights obtained in various countries to actively protect its proprietary rights. For instance, with respect to the device interface market, Advantest has taken legal action based on its patent and utility model rights against manufacturers that sell replicas of Advantest’s products and, in some instances, has obtained injunctions against sales of such replicas. However, in general, it is difficult for Advantest to gain access to, and investigate, the products believed to infringe its intellectual property rights. Therefore, Advantest cannot ensure that its intellectual property rights will provide meaningful protection of its proprietary rights. Nevertheless, Advantest is focused on protecting its intellectual property rights from third party infringement and will continue to monitor and enforce its rights. The technology labor market is very competitive, and Advantest’s business may suffer if Advantest is unable to hire and retain engineers and other key personnel Advantest’s future success depends partly on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified engineers for its research and development and customer service and support divisions. If Advantest fails to hire and retain a sufficient number of these personnel, it may not be able to maintain and expand its business. Advantest may need to revise its compensation and other personnel related policies to retain its existing officers and employees and attract and retain the additional personnel that it expects to require. Confidential information could be inadvertently disclosed through unauthorized access or use, which could lead to substantial costs or harm Advantest’s reputation Advantest uses both paper documents and electronic data in managing confidential information. Although Advantest has established the Information Security Committee and Security Control Office and is taking measures to keep information confidential through procedures designed to prevent accidental release of information through unauthorized access or use, such information may be inadvertently disclosed without Advantest’s knowledge. If this occurs, Advantest’s reputation could be harmed and Advantest could incur substantial costs to remedy the situation. Accordingly, inadvertent disclosure of confidential information could have a material adverse effect upon Advantest’s business results and financial condition. Product defects and any damages stemming from Advantest’s product liability could harm Advantest’s reputation among existing and potential customers and could have a material adverse effect upon Advantest’s business results and financial condition Advantest manufactures its products in accordance with internationally accepted quality control standards such as ISO 9000. However, Advantest cannot guarantee that there are no defects in its products. Advantest maintains product liability insurance, but cannot guarantee that such insurance will sufficiently cover the ultimate amount of damages with respect to Advantest’s liabilities. Large scale accidents or any discovery of defects in its products could harm Advantest’s reputation for not adequately addressing defects, could cause Advantest to incur higher costs and could have a material adverse effect upon Advantest’s business results and financial condition if Advantest is liable for claims for damages. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of ADSs or Common Stock Japanese yen-dollar fluctuations could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline and reduce dividend amounts payable to ADS holders as expressed in U.S. dollars Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar may affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Japanese yen price of the shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and, primarily reflecting the foregoing, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. The Company has historically paid dividends on its shares twice a year. If the Company declares cash dividends, dividends on the shares represented by the ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Japanese yen and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars. Therefore, exchange rate fluctuations could also affect the dividend amounts payable to ADS holders following conversion into U.S. dollars of dividends paid in Japanese yen on the shares represented by the ADSs. As a holder of ADSs, you will have fewer rights than a shareholder has, and you must act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining Advantest’s accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights, are available only to holders of record on the Company’s register of shareholders. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the registered holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying a holder’s ADSs as instructed by the holder and will pay to the holder the dividends and distributions collected from Advantest. However, in the holder’s capacity as an ADS holder, that holder will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine Advantest’s accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. There are restrictions on the withdrawal of shares from the Company’s depositary receipt facility Under the Company’s ADS program, each ADS represents the right to receive one share. To withdraw any shares, a holder of ADSs has to surrender for cancellation American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, evidencing 100 ADSs or any integral multiple thereof. Each ADR bears a legend to that effect. As a result, holders of ADSs are unable to withdraw fractions of shares or units or receive any cash settlement from the depositary in lieu of withdrawal of fractions of shares or units. Holders of shares representing less than one unit, or 100 shares, may require the Company to repurchase those shares, whereas holders of ADSs representing less than one unit of shares are unable to exercise this right because the holders of these ADSs are unable to withdraw the underlying shares. Under the Company’s ADS program, an ADS holder cannot cause the depositary to require the Company to repurchase fractions of shares or units on its behalf. For a further discussion of the ADSs and the ADS program, see “Description of American Depositary Receipts” set forth in the Company’s registration statement on Form F-1 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 22, 2002. For a further discussion of the Japanese unit share system, see “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—The Unit Share System.” Enforcement of Civil Liabilities The Company is a limited liability, joint-stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Almost all of the Company’s directors, executive officers and corporate auditors reside in Japan. Substantially all of the Company’s assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan. It may not be possible, therefore, for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon the Company or these persons or to enforce against the Company or these persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. The Company’s Japanese counsel, Nagashima Ohno & Tsunematsu, has advised the Company that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the U.S. 12 Table of Contents 