RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Advantest’s Business Advantest’s business and results of operations are subject to significant demand volatility in the semiconductor industry Advantest’s business depends largely upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, foundries and test houses. These companies, in turn, determine their capital expenditure and investment levels largely based on current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and demand for products incorporating semiconductors. Historically, the percentage reduction in capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers during downturns in the semiconductor industry, including investment in test systems, has typically been much greater than the percentage reduction in worldwide sales of semiconductors. The semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of excess inventory, which often have had a severe effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for test systems, including those of Advantest. In particular, the market for memory semiconductors shows higher demand volatility as compared to non memory semiconductors. In fiscal 2007, 70.6% of Advantest’s net sales from semiconductor and component test systems was derived from the sale of semiconductor test systems for memory semiconductors, a 5.3% increase from 65.3% in fiscal 2006. Accordingly, it still remains over 50%. Any downturns in the memory semiconductor market will therefore be likely to adversely affect Advantest’s business. The worldwide semiconductor market grew by 18.3% in 2003 as compared to 2002 and grew substantially by 28.0% in 2004. Thereafter, the semiconductor market grew by 6.8%, 8.9% and 3.2% in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Worldwide sales of memory semiconductors increased by 20.2%, 45.0%, 2.9% and 20.5% in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, on a year-to-year basis, primarily due to the increase in demand for flash memory semiconductors used in digital consumer products and for DRAM semiconductors used in personal computers. Worldwide sales of memory semiconductors, however, declined slightly by 1.1% in 2007, due to a substantial reduction in capital expenditure by semiconductor manufacturers reflecting a substantial decline in the price of DRAM semiconductors and NAND-type flash memory semiconductors. Also, worldwide sales of non memory semiconductors increased by 17.8% and 23.9% in 2003 and 2004, respectively. Net sales were sluggish after the summer of 2004 due to adjustments of excess inventory by semiconductor manufacturers. However, demand recovered as the adjustment of excess inventory stabilized after the spring of 2005 and the market for personal computers (especially notebooks) and digital consumer devices expanded. Accordingly, net sales of semiconductors increased by 7.9% in 2005, as compared with the previous year. Furthermore, in 2006 and 2007, demand in the consumer market and automobile market stabilized and the data processing market were strong. Accordingly, worldwide sales of non memory semiconductors grew by 5.7% and 4.5% in 2006 and 2007, respectively. The significant demand volatility of the market for semiconductors is affected by various factors such as: • the overall state of the global economy; • the consumer demand for digital consumer products such as flat-panel TVs, DVD recorders, portable audio players and game machines; • the demand in personal computer and server industries; • the levels of investment in communications infrastructure and trends in the mobile telecommunications industry; and • the change in the price of semiconductors. 4 Table of Contents Advantest recorded an increase of 78.2% in net sales for fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002, and net sales for fiscal 2004 stood at ¥239,439 million, representing a 37.4% increase over fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2005, the adjustment of excess inventory by semiconductor manufacturers ended, net sales increased by 6.0% as compared with the previous fiscal year to ¥253,922 million, and net income achieved ¥41,374 million. Although net sales for the first half of fiscal 2006 continued to remain strong as in fiscal 2005, sales declined mainly as a result of a decrease in the price of semiconductors in the second half of fiscal 2006, and as a result, net sales for the full fiscal 2006 were ¥235,012 million, representing a 7.4% decrease compared to fiscal 2005, and net income decreased by 14.1% as compared to fiscal 2005 to ¥35,556 million. The substantial decline in the price of semiconductors continued from the second half of fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2007 and many semiconductor manufacturers froze or postponed their capital expenditure spending. Reflecting the foregoing, net sales in fiscal 2007 decreased by 22.2%, as compared to fiscal 2006, to ¥182,767 million, and net income decreased by 53.5%, as compared to fiscal 2006, to ¥16,550 million Accordingly, Advantest believes that its results are significantly impacted by the significant demand volatility of the semiconductor industry. Significant downturns in, among others, the semiconductor industry are likely to therefore adversely affect Advantest’s financial condition and results of operations. If Advantest does not introduce new products meeting its customers’ technical requirements in a timely manner and at competitive prices, its products will become obsolete and its financial condition and results of operations will suffer Advantest sells its products to several industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, the frequent introduction of new products and services, varying and unpredictable product lifecycles and evolving industry standards. Advantest anticipates that future demand for its products will be driven, in large part, by technological innovation in semiconductor technology, which create new testing requirements that are not adequately addressed by currently installed semiconductor test systems. Customer needs in response to these technological innovations include: • investment by memory semiconductor manufacturers in facilities that are used to produce memory semiconductors, such as flash memory, DDR2-SDRAM, DDR3-SDRAM and the next generation DDR4-SDRAM; • the introduction of non memory semiconductors that incorporate more advanced memory, logic and analog circuits; • investment by semiconductor manufacturers in mechatronics related products which transport devices faster, more accurately and more stably; • the utilization of testing technologies that employ self-test circuit designs incorporated into semiconductor chips; • introduction of mechatronics products that respond to reduced testing time resulting from advances in customers’ back-end testing; • prompt response and quick repair in the event of failure; and • total solutions that allow customers to reduce their testing costs. Advantest also believes demand for its products, including semiconductor and component test systems, will continue to be strongly affected by the level of demand for personal computers, high-speed wireless and wireline data services and digital consumer products. It is likely that advances in technologies used in those products and services require new testing systems. Without the timely introduction of semiconductor test systems capable of effectively testing and measuring equipment that use new technologies, Advantest’s products and services will become technologically obsolete over time. The failure of Advantest to meet its customers’ technical requirements at a competitive price or to deliver conforming equipment in a timely manner can result in its products being replaced by equipment of a competitor 5 Table of Contents or an alternative technology solution. Accordingly, Advantest’s inability to provide a product that meets requested performance criteria at an acceptable price when required by its customers would severely damage its reputation with that customer and may adversely affect future sales efforts with respect to that customer. Advantest faces substantial competition in its businesses and, if Advantest does not maintain or expand its market share, its business may be harmed Advantest faces substantial competition throughout the world. Advantest’s primary competitors in the semiconductor and component test system market include, among others, Teradyne, Inc., Verigy Ltd., Credence Systems Corporation, Yokogawa Electronic Corporation, EXICON Ltd. and UniTest Inc. In the mechatronics system related market, Advantest also competes with Delta Design, Inc., Seiko Epson Corporation, Mirae Corporation and TechWing, Inc. in test handler devices, and with TSE Co., Ltd. and Secron Co., Ltd. in device interfaces. In addition, in the services, support and others segment, Advantest has been competing with companies providing similar services. Some of Advantest’s competitors have greater financial and other resources than Advantest. Advantest faces many challenges in its businesses, including increased pressure from customers to produce semiconductor and component test systems and mechatronics systems that reduce testing costs. To compete effectively and maintain and expand its market share, Advantest must continue to enhance its business processes to lower the cost of its products, as well as introduce enhancements that lower overall testing costs. Advantest also expects its competitors to continue to introduce new products with improvements in price and performance, as well as increase their customer service and support offerings. Significant increases in competition may erode Advantest’s profit margin and weaken its earnings. Advantest’s product lines are facing significant price pressure Price pressure in Advantest’s businesses is adversely affecting Advantest’s operating margins. Price pressure with respect to semiconductors continues to grow even during periods when demand, in terms of volume, for semiconductors is increasing, resulting in continuous pressure on the market price for products in the Semiconductor and Component Test System Segment and Mechatronics System Segment. During these periods, semiconductor manufacturers and test houses, which are Advantest’s customers, seek to increase their production capacities while minimizing their capital expenditures. In addition, increased competition in the market for digital consumer products and personal computers drove down prices of these goods, subsequently creating significant price pressure on Advantest’s product lines. An increase in price pressure may adversely affect Advantest’s future financial condition and results of operations. Advantest may not recoup costs incurred in the development of new products Enhancements to existing products and the development of new generations of products are, in most cases, costly processes. Furthermore, because the decision to purchase semiconductor and component test systems products and mechatronics systems generally involves a significant commitment of capital, the sale of this equipment typically involves a lengthy sales period and requires Advantest to expend substantial funds and sales efforts to secure the sale. Advantest’s enhancements or new generations of products may not generate net sales in excess of development and sales costs if, for example, these new enhancements or products are quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, the introduction by Advantest’s competitors of products embodying new technologies or features, the introduction by Advantest’s customers of new products that require different testing functions or the failure of the market for Advantest’s customer’s products to grow at the rate, or to the levels, anticipated by Advantest. This risk is believed to be particularly acute with respect to test systems for non memory semiconductors because, in general, new non memory semiconductors product lines are introduced to market more frequently than new memory semiconductor product lines. In some cases, Advantest must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of its customers’ products. This requires Advantest to make significant investments in product development well before it determines the 6 Table of Contents commercial viability of these innovations. If Advantest’s customers fail to introduce their devices in a timely manner or the market rejects their devices, Advantest may not recover its investments in product development through sales in significant volume. The market for Advantest’s major products is highly concentrated, and Advantest may not be able to increase sales of its products because of limited opportunities The market for test systems for memory semiconductors in the semiconductor and component test system segment is highly concentrated, with a small number of large semiconductor manufacturers, foundries and test houses accounting for a large portion of total sales in the semiconductor test system industry. Advantest believes that this market concentration will become even more severe in the future as larger semiconductor device manufacturers, foundries and test houses acquire smaller semiconductor market participants, and as corporate restructuring, such as elimination and consolidation of businesses, progresses. Advantest’s ability to increase sales will depend in large part upon its ability to obtain or increase orders from large-volume customers. Advantest’s largest customers currently account for a significant part of its net sales, and the loss of one or more of these customers or changes in their capital expenditures could harm its business Advantest’s success depends on its continued ability to develop and manage relationships with its major customers, a small number of which currently accounts for a significant portion of its net sales. Sales to Advantest’s largest customer as a percentage of its total sales were approximately 17% in fiscal 2005, approximately 11% in fiscal 2006, and approximately 9% in fiscal 2007. Sales to Advantest’s five largest customers accounted for approximately 41% of total net sales in fiscal 2005, approximately 35% in fiscal 2006 and approximately 32% in fiscal 2007. The loss of one or more of these major customers or changes in their capital expenditures could materially harm Advantest’s business. Advantest’s dependence on subcontractors and on sole source or a limited number of suppliers for its components and parts may prevent it from delivering an acceptable product on a timely basis Advantest relies on subcontractors to perform some of the assembly requirements for its products. In addition, many of the components used in Advantest’s semiconductor and component test systems and mechatronics systems are produced by suppliers based on Advantest’s specifications. Advantest’s reliance on these subcontractors and suppliers gives it less control over the manufacturing process and exposes it to significant risks, especially inadequate manufacturing capacity, late delivery, substandard quality, lack of labor availability and high costs. In addition, Advantest depends on sole source or a limited number of suppliers for a portion of its components and parts. Advantest does not maintain long-term supply agreements with most of its suppliers, and it purchases most of its components and parts through individual purchase orders. If suppliers become unable to provide components or parts in the volumes needed and at acceptable prices, Advantest would have to identify and procure acceptable replacements. Furthermore, the markets for semiconductors and other specialized components have, in the past, experienced periods of inadequate supply to meet demand. The process of selecting subcontractors or suppliers and of identifying suitable replacement components and parts is a lengthy process and can result in Advantest being unable to deliver products meeting customer requirements on a timely basis. Advantest has, in the past, been unable to deliver its products according to production schedules due to the inability of suppliers to supply components and parts based on Advantest’s specifications and due to other shortages in components and parts. Advantest may not fully benefit from the industry-wide adoption of OPENSTAR® Advantest is encouraging the adoption of OPENSTAR®, an industry-wide, open architecture, because Advantest believes that OPENSTAR® will provide an opportunity for late entrants, such as Advantest, to achieve a stronger entry into the test systems of non memory semiconductors market. This would help increase Advantest’s market share, improve its operation results and expand its customer base. 7 Table of Contents Even if OPENSTAR® is broadly accepted by the semiconductor industry, the effects of the adoption of OPENSTAR® on Advantest’s business are uncertain. Because OPENSTAR® is an open architecture that can be used by all semiconductor industry participants, an increase in the number of market participants could result in a loss of market share for Advantest. In addition, OPENSTAR® is a standard which, if adopted, will require all test system manufacturers, including Advantest, to re-design their products. These and other uncertainties that can result from the broad acceptance of OPENSTAR® could adversely affect Advantest’s test systems for non memory semiconductors business. Fluctuations in exchange rates could reduce Advantest’s profitability The majority of Advantest’s net sales derive from products sold to customers located outside of Japan. Approximately 69% of Advantest’s fiscal 2007 net sales were from products sold to overseas customers. Most of Advantest’s products are manufactured in Japan, but approximately 11% of Advantest’s net sales in fiscal 2007 were made in currencies other than the yen, predominantly the U.S. dollar. A strengthening in the yen relative to foreign currencies (mostly U.S. dollar and in other currencies to a much lesser extent) would increase the prices of Advantest products as stated in U.S. dollars and in those other currencies which could hurt sales in those countries. In addition, significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the yen and foreign currencies, especially relative to the U.S. dollar, could require Advantest to lower its prices with respect to foreign sales of its products that are priced in yen, and reduce the yen equivalent amounts of its foreign sales for products that are based in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies, and overall reducing its profitability. These fluctuations could also cause prospective customers to push out or delay orders because of the increased relative cost of Advantest’s products. In the past, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the yen and the foreign currencies of countries in which Advantest does business. The failure by Advantest to meet demand for its products upon a significant expansion in the semiconductor and component test systems and mechatronics system markets may adversely affect its future market share and financial results If the market for semiconductor and component test systems and mechatronics systems were to suddenly expand, Advantest would require a significant increase in production capabilities, including personnel, in order to fully capitalize on such expansion. The failure of Advantest to adjust to such unanticipated increases in demand for its products during the period of recovery in demand could result in Advantest losing one or more of its existing large-volume customers or losing the opportunity to establish a strong relationship with large-volume customers with which it currently does little or no business. Such failure may adversely affect Advantest’s future market share and its financial results. If Advantest’s main facilities for research and development, production or information technology systems for all of its businesses, or the facilities of its subcontractors and suppliers, were to experience catastrophic loss, its results of operations would be seriously harmed Advantest’s main facilities for research and development for its semiconductor and component test systems and mechatronics system segments production, as well as many of Advantest’s service bases, are located in Japan and particularly concentrated in Saitama Prefecture and Gunma Prefecture. In addition, the main system server and parts of the network hub are maintained in system centers approved by the Information System Management System, or ISMS, and local network servers are located in certain operations offices in Japan. Japan suffers from relatively frequent earthquakes. If Advantest’s facilities, particularly its semiconductor and component test system manufacturing factories, were to experience a catastrophic loss, it would materially disrupt Advantest’s operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities. Advantest has insurance to cover most potential losses at its manufacturing facilities, other than those that result from earthquakes. However, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all possible losses. Similar disruptions to Advantest’s business may 8 Table of Contents occur if the facilities of Advantest’s subcontractors and suppliers or if the facilities of Advantest’s information system network were to experience a catastrophic loss. Advantest has prepared itself for crises such as large-scale natural disasters, and each department of Advantest has documented its own disaster procedures and manuals. Furthermore, in order to prevent any disruption of its core businesses, or in case of suspension, to re-start the suspended businesses, including the recovery of important facilities, in the shortest possible time, Advantest has formulated and is implementing a “Business Continuity Plan.” However, if Advantest cannot implement such Business Continuity Plan, or if upon implementation such Business Continuity Plan is not effective, Advantest’s core businesses could be disrupted at a time of crisis, such as large-scale natural disasters, and could take a substantial amount of time to recover. Advantest’s business is subject to economic, political and other risks associated with international operations and sales Advantest’s business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally because it sells its products, and purchases parts and components from, around the world. In fiscal 2007, 59.2% of Advantest’s total net sales came from Asia (excluding Japan), a majority of which consisted of sales in Taiwan, the People’s Republic of China and Korea, 5.3% from the Americas and 4.8% from Europe. Advantest anticipates that net sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of its total net sales. In addition, some of Advantest’s distribution and support subsidiaries are located in the Americas, Europe, and Asian countries including Singapore, Taiwan, the People’s Republic of China and Korea and some of Advantest’s suppliers are also located overseas. Accordingly, Advantest’s future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • political and economic instability, natural calamities or other risks related to countries where Advantest procures its components and parts or sells its products; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • risks with respect to international taxation, including transfer pricing regulations; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable because of distance and different legal rules; and • risks with respect to social and political crises resulting from terrorism and war, among others. Advantest’s financial condition and results of operations are subject to factors relating to its marketing and sales capabilities and its branding Advantest’s financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected by factors relating to its marketing and sales capabilities and its branding, including: • the long selling process involved in the sale of semiconductor and component test systems; • the relatively small number of total units sold in the semiconductor and component test system market; • order cancellations or delays by customers; • delays in collection of, or increases in provisions for, accounts receivable due to the financial condition of customers; • increases in required provisions for product warranty costs and write-downs of inventory; and • any real or perceived decrease in performance and reliability of Advantest products, which leads to a decline in Advantest’s reputation. 9 Table of Contents Chemicals used by Advantest may become subject to more stringent regulations, and Advantest may be required to incur significant costs in adapting to new requirements Advantest uses chemicals in the manufacturing of its products, the manufacture, processing and distribution of which are subject to environmental related laws, regulations and rules of Japanese governmental agencies, as well as by various industry organizations and other regulatory bodies in other countries. These regulatory bodies may strengthen existing regulations governing chemicals used by Advantest and may also begin to regulate other chemicals used by Advantest. While Advantest is taking measures to eliminate toxic substances included in parts used to manufacture its products, Advantest uses solder which contains lead for mounting electronic parts and components for its products in order to ensure the reliability of its products as a matter of priority. Further, as a method to cool some of its semiconductor and component test systems, Advantest uses a type of perfluorocarbon, or PFC, that is not currently regulated by laws related to the ozone layer protection and global warming. Advantest believes that it is in compliance with regulations with respect to the use of chemicals, by promoting environmental policies for its products with the focus on ensuring the safety and the reliability of its products; however, Advantest must be prepared to adapt to regulatory requirements in all relevant countries as requirements change. Advantest may be required to incur significant cost in adapting to new requirements. Any failure by Advantest to comply with applicable government or industry regulations could result in restrictions on its ability to carry on or expand its operations, including being unable to sell its products. Advantest could suffer significant liabilities, litigation costs or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling its products if it is infringing the intellectual property of third parties Advantest may be unknowingly infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties and may be held responsible for that infringement. To date, Advantest has not been the subject of a material intellectual property claim. However, any future litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property infringement could be costly and time consuming and divert management and key personnel from Advantest’s business operations. If Advantest loses a claim, it might be forced to pay significant damages, pay license fees, modify its products or processes, stop making products or stop using processes. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Changing Advantest’s products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of third parties may be costly or impractical. Advantest may be unable to protect its proprietary rights due to the difficulty of Advantest gaining access to, and investigating, the products believed to infringe Advantest’s intellectual property rights Advantest relies on patents, utility model rights, design rights, trademarks and copyrights obtained in various countries to actively protect its proprietary rights. For instance, with respect to the device interface market, Advantest has taken legal action based on its patent and utility model rights against manufacturers that sell replicas of Advantest’s products and, in some instances, has obtained injunctions against sales of such replicas. However, in general, it is difficult for Advantest to gain access to, and investigate, the products believed to infringe its intellectual property rights. Therefore, Advantest cannot ensure that its intellectual property rights will provide meaningful protection of its proprietary rights. Nevertheless, Advantest is focused on protecting its intellectual property rights from third party infringement and will continue to monitor and enforce its rights. The technology labor market is very competitive, and Advantest’s business will suffer if Advantest is unable to hire and retain engineers and other key personnel Advantest’s future success depends partly on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified engineers for its research and development and customer service and support divisions. If Advantest fails to hire and retain a sufficient number of these personnel, it will not be able to maintain and expand its business. Advantest may need to revise its compensation and other personnel related policies to retain its existing officers and employees and attract and retain the additional personnel that it expects to require. 10 Table of Contents Confidential information could be inadvertently disclosed, through unauthorized access or use, which could lead to substantial costs or harm Advantest’s reputation Advantest uses both paper documents and electronic data in managing confidential information. Although Advantest has established the Information Security Committee and is taking measures to keep information confidential through procedures designed to prevent accidental release of information through unauthorized access or use, such information may be inadvertently disclosed without Advantest’s knowledge. If this occurs, Advantest could harm its reputation and incur substantial costs to remedy the situation. Accordingly, inadvertent disclosure of confidential information could have a material adverse effect upon Advantest’s business results and financial condition. Product defects and any damages caused by Advantest in respect of product liability could harm Advantest’s reputation among existing and potential customers and could have a material adverse effect upon Advantest’s business results and financial condition Advantest manufactures its products in accordance with internationally accepted quality control standards such as ISO 9000. However, Advantest cannot guarantee that there are no defects in its products. Advantest maintains product liability insurance, but cannot guarantee that such insurance will sufficiently cover the ultimate amount of damages with respect to Advantest’s liabilities. Large scale accidents or any discovery of defects in its products could harm Advantest’s reputation for not adequately addressing defects, could cause Advantest to incur higher costs and could have a material adverse effect upon Advantest’s business results and financial condition if Advantest is liable for claims for damages. Risks Related to Ownership of ADSs or Common Stock Yen-dollar fluctuations could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline and reduce dividend amounts payable to ADS holders as expressed in U.S. dollars Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Japanese yen price of the shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs. Advantest has historically paid dividends on its shares twice a year. If Advantest declares cash dividends, dividends on the shares represented by the ADSs will be paid to the depositary in Japanese yen and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars. Therefore, exchange rate fluctuations will also affect the dividend amounts payable to ADS holders following conversion into U.S. dollars of dividends paid in Japanese yen on the shares represented by the ADSs. As a holder of ADSs, you will have fewer rights than a shareholder has, and you must act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining Advantest’s accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights, are available only to holders of record on Advantest’s register of shareholders or Advantest’s register of beneficial shareholders. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the registered holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying a holder’s ADSs as instructed by the holder and will pay to the holder the dividends and distributions collected from Advantest. However, in the holder’s capacity as an ADS holder, that holder will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine Advantest’s accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. There are restrictions on the withdrawal of shares from Advantest’s depositary receipt facility Under Advantest’s ADS program, each ADS represents the right to receive one share. To withdraw any shares, a holder of ADSs has to surrender for cancellation American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, evidencing 11 Table of Contents 100 ADSs or any integral multiple thereof. Each ADR bears a legend to that effect. As a result, holders of ADSs are unable to withdraw fractions of shares or units or receive any cash settlement from the depositary in lieu of withdrawal of fractions of shares or units. Holders of shares representing less than one unit, or 100 shares, may require Advantest to repurchase those shares, whereas holders of ADSs representing less than one unit of shares are unable to exercise this right because the holders of these ADSs are unable to withdraw the underlying shares. Under Advantest’s ADS program, an ADS holder cannot cause the depositary to require Advantest to repurchase fractions of shares or units on its behalf. For a further discussion of the ADSs and the ADS program, see “Description of American Depositary Receipts” set forth in Advantest’s registration statement on Form F-1 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 22, 2002. For a further discussion of the Japanese unit share system, see “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—The Unit Share System.” Enforcement of Civil Liabilities Advantest is a limited liability, joint-stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Almost all of Advantest’s directors, executive officers and corporate auditors reside in Japan. Substantially all of Advantest’s assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan. It may not be possible, therefore, for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon Advantest or these persons or to enforce against Advantest or these persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. Advantest’s Japanese counsel, Nagashima Ohno & Tsunematsu, has advised Advantest that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the U.S. 