Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors, among others, could affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and except as required by law we assume no obligation to update this information. You should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this annual report before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Our common stock is considered speculative and the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. We have not earned any revenues since our incorporation and only have a limited operating history in our current business of developing and commercializing stem cell production technology, which raise doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a limited operating history in our current business of developing and commercializing stem cell production technology and must be considered in the development stage. We have not generated any revenues since our inception and we will, in all likelihood, continue to incur operating expenses without significant revenues until we successfully develop our stem cell production technology and commercialize our cell therapy products. Our primary source of funds has been the sale of our common stock and government grants. We cannot give assurances that we will be able to generate any significant revenues or income. These circumstances make us dependent on additional financial support until profitability is achieved. There is no assurance that we will ever be profitable or that we will be able to continue as a going concern as is noted in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2010. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report states that there is a substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Kost, Forer, Gabbay & Kassierer a Member of Ernst & Young Global, state in their audit report attached to our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years that ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 that since we are an exploration stage company, we have no established source of revenue, and are dependent on our ability to raise capital from shareholders and other sources to sustain operations, there is a substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that acceptable financing to fund our ongoing operations can be obtained on suitable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to support our operations, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. In that event, we may be forced to cease operat ions and our stockholders could lose their entire investment in our company. Our likelihood of profitability depends on our ability to develop and commercialize products based on our stem cell production technology, which is currently in the development stage. If we are unable to complete the development and commercialization of our stem cell products successfully, our likelihood of profitability will be limited severely. We are engaged in the business of developing cell therapy products. We have not realized a profit from our operations to date and there is little likelihood that we will realize any profits in the short or medium term. Any profitability in the future from our Company’s business will be dependent upon successful commercialization of our potential cell therapy products, which will require significant additional research and development as well as substantial clinical trials. - 10 - If we are not able to successfully develop and commercialize our cell therapy product candidates and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our business operations. Our early stage cell therapy product candidates may fail to perform as we expect. Moreover even if our cell therapy product candidates will successfully perform as expected, in later stages of development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed successfully through pre-clinical or initial clinical testing. We will need to devote significant additional research and development, financial resources and personnel to develop commercially viable products and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. If our cell therapy product candidates do not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, we will not obtain the required regulatory approvals. If we fail to obtain such approvals, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our business operations. Even if we obtain regulatory approval of a product, that approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Even after granting regulatory approval, the FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries continue to review and inspect marketed products, manufacturers and manufacturing facilities, which may create additional regulatory burdens. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility, may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including a withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, regulatory agencies may establish additional regulations that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. We cannot market and sell our cell therapy product candidates in the United States or Europe or in other countries if we fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or licensure. We cannot sell our cell therapy product candidates until regulatory agencies grant marketing approval, or licensure. The process of obtaining regulatory approval is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. It is likely to take several years to obtain the required regulatory approvals for our cell therapy product candidates, or we may never gain the necessary approvals. Any difficulties that we encounter in obtaining regulatory approval may have a substantial adverse impact on our operations and cause our stock price to decline significantly. To obtain marketing approvals in the United States and Europe for cell therapy product candidates we must, among other requirements, complete carefully controlled and well-designed clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate to the FDA and the EMA that the cell therapy product candidates is safe and effective for each disease for which we seek approval. So far, we are conducting Phase I clinical trials for our PLX-PAD product, which is our only product that is the subject to clinical trials. Several factors could prevent completion or cause significant delay of these trials, including an inability to enroll the required number of patients or failure to demonstrate adequately that cell therapy product candidates are safe, effective and potent for use in humans. Negative or inconclusive results from or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause the clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful. The FDA or the EMA can place a clinical trial on hold if, among other reasons, it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury. If safety concerns develop, we, the FDA, or the EMA could stop our trials before completion. If we encounter problems or delays in the research and development of our potential cell therapy products, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital to finance our operation during the period required to resolve such problems or delays. Our cell therapy products are currently in the development stage and we anticipate that we will continue to incur operating expenses without significant revenues until we have successfully completed all necessary research and clinical trials. We, and any of our potential collaborators, may encounter problems and delays relating to research and development, regulatory approval and intellectual property rights of our technology. Our research and development programs may not be successful, and our cell culture technology may not facilitate the production of cells outside the human body with the expected result. Our cell therapy products may not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials. If any of these events occur, we may not have adequate resources to continue operations for the pe riod required to resolve the issue delaying commercialization and we may not be able to raise capital to finance our continued operation during the period required for resolution of that issue. Accordingly, we may be forced to discontinue or suspend our operations. - 11 - If we are not able to conduct our clinical trials properly and on schedule, marketing approval by FDA, EMA and other regulatory authorities may be delayed or denied. The completion of our clinical trials may be delayed or terminated for many reasons, including, but not limited to, if: · the FDA or the EMA does not grant permission to proceed and places the trial on clinical hold; · subjects do not enroll in our trials at the rate we expect; · subjects experience an unacceptable rate or severity of adverse side effects; · third-party clinical investigators do not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practice and regulatory requirements, or other third parties do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; · inspections of clinical trial sites by the FDA, EMA, or Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) of research institutions participating in our clinical trials find regulatory violations that require us to undertake corrective action, suspend or terminate one or more sites, or prohibit us from using some or all of the data in support of our marketing applications; or · one or more IRBs suspends or terminates the trial at an investigational site, precludes enrollment of additional subjects, or withdraws its approval of the trial. Our development costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials, or if we are required to modify, suspend, terminate or repeat a clinical trial. If we are unable to conduct our clinical trials properly and on schedule, marketing approval may be delayed or denied by the FDA or the EMA. We may not be able to secure and maintain research institutions to conduct our clinical trials. We rely on research institutions to conduct our clinical trials. Specifically, the limited number of centers experienced with cell therapy products candidates heightens our dependence on such research institutions. Our reliance upon research institutions, including hospitals and clinics, provides us with less control over the timing and cost of clinical trials and the ability to recruit subjects. If we are unable to reach agreement with suitable research institutions on acceptable terms, or if any resulting agreement is terminated, we may be unable to quickly replace the research institution with another qualified institution on acceptable terms. We may not be able to secure and maintain suitable research institutions to conduct our clinical trials. We need to raise additional financing to support the research and development of our cell therapy products and our products in the future but we cannot be sure we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms favourable to us when needed. If we are unable to obtain additional financing to meet our needs, our operations may be adversely affected or terminated. Our ability to continue to develop and commercialize our potential cell therapy products is dependent upon our ability to raise significant additional financing when needed. If we are unable to obtain such financing, we will not be able to fully develop our technology and commercialize our cell therapy products. Our future capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including: · continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; · costs and timing of conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approvals and patent prosecutions; · competing technological and market developments; - 12 - · our ability to establish additional collaborative relationships; and · the effect of commercialization activities and facility expansions if and as required. We have limited financial resources and, to date, negative cash flow from operations. Although we anticipate that our existing capital resources will be adequate to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements until at least the first quarter of calendar year 2011, we will need to raise additional funds in the near future in order to satisfy our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. Therefore, we are dependent on our ability to sell our common stock for funds, receive grants or to otherwise raise capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on that basis in light of the market demand for our securities, the state of financial markets generally, and other relevant factors. Any sale of our common stock in the future will result in dilution to exist ing stockholders. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will not incur debt in the future, that we will have sufficient funds to repay our future indebtedness, or that we will not default on our future debts, jeopardizing our business viability. Finally, we may not be able to borrow or raise additional capital in the future to meet our needs or to otherwise provide the capital necessary to conduct the development and commercialization of our potential cell therapy products, which could result in the loss of some or all of one’s investment in our common stock. We cannot guarantee continuation of government programs and tax benefits. We have received certain Israeli government approval under certain programs and may in the future utilize certain tax benefits in Israel by virtue of these programs. To remain eligible for such tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits we receive could be canceled and we may pay certain taxes. We cannot guarantee that these programs and tax benefits will be continued in the future, at their current levels or at all. If these programs and tax benefits are ended, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. The terms of the Chief Scientist’s grants limit our ability to transfer know-how developed under an approved research and development program outside of Israel, regardless of whether the royalties were fully paid. Any non-Israeli citizen, resident or entity that, among other things, becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital or voting rights, is entitled to appoint one or more of our directors or our chief executive officer, serves as a director of our company or as our chief executive officer is generally required to notify the same to the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the gr ant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States. Therefore, we are exposed to currency exchange fluctuations in other currencies such as the Euro and the New Israeli Shekel (NIS). Moreover, a portion of our expenses in Israel and Europe are paid in NIS and Euros, respectively, which subjects us to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations. Our primary expenses paid in NIS are employee salaries, fees for consultants and subcontractors and lease payments on our Israeli facilities. The dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase to the extent increases in the rate of inflation in Israel are not offset by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar, which would harm our results of operations. Since a considerable portion of our expenses such as employees' salaries are linked to an extent to the rate of inflation in Israel, the dollar cost of our operations is influenced by the extent to which any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel is or is not offset by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the NIS, after adjustment for inflation in Israel, will appreciate in relation to the dollar. In that event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. During the past few years inflation-adjusted NIS appreciated against the dollar, which raised the dollar cost of our Israeli operations. We cannot pred ict whether the NIS will appreciate against the dollar or vice versa in the future. Any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel, unless the increase is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar, will increase labor and other costs, which will increase the dollar cost of our operations in Israel and harm our results of operations. - 13 - If we fail to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals for our potential cell therapy products, our ability to commercialize our potential cell therapy products will be limited severely. Once our potential cell therapy products are fully developed, we intend to market our potential cell therapy products primarily in the United States and Europe. We must obtain FDA and EMA approval of our technology and potential cell therapy products before commercialization of our potential cell therapy products may commence in the United States and similar agencies in Europe. We may also be required to obtain additional approvals from foreign regulatory authorities to commence our marketing activities in those jurisdictions. If we cannot demonstrate the safety, reliability and efficacy of our cells, including long-term sustained cell engraftment, or if one or more patients die or suffer severe complications in clinical trials, the FDA or EMA and/or other regulatory authorities could delay or withhold regulatory approval of our technology and potential products. Furthermore, even if we obtain regulatory approval for our cell therapy products, that approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which they may be marketed. Even after granting regulatory approval, the FDA, the EMA, other regulatory agencies, and governments in other countries will continue to review and inspect marketed products, manufacturers and manufacturing facilities. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including a withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, governmental regulatory agencies may establish additional regulations, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our technology and our potential cell therapy products. We have limited experience in conducting and managing human trials. If we fail in the conducting of such trials, our business will be materially harmed. Even though we have recruited employees who are experienced in managing and conducting clinical trials, we have limited experience in this area. We will need to expand our experience and rely on consulting in order to obtain regulatory approvals for our therapeutic product candidates. The failure to successfully conduct clinical trials could materially harm our business. The trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There is a trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. This consolidation trend may result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and discovery technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition in these industries. This trend may also result in fewer potential collaborators or licensees for our therapeutic product candidates. Also, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we may lose existing licensees or collaborators as a result of such consolidation. This trend may adversely affect our ability to enter into agreements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and as a result may harm our business. Our product development programs are based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new technologies. The novel nature of our therapeutics creates significant challenges in regards to product development and optimization, manufacturing, government regulation, third-party reimbursement and market acceptance. For example, the FDA or the EMA has relatively limited experience with stem cell therapies. None has been approved by them for commercial sale, and the pathway to regulatory approval for our cell therapy product candidates may accordingly be more complex and lengthy. As a result, the development and commercialization pathway for our therapies may be subject to increased uncertainty, as compared to the pathway for new conventional drugs. - 14 - There are no FDA or EMA approved treatments for some of the disease indications we are pursuing. This could complicate and delay FDA or EMA approval of our biologic drug candidates. There are no drugs or therapies currently approved with for treatment of PAD using allogeneic cell therapy products. As a result, the clinical efficacy endpoints, or the criteria to measure the intended results of treatment may be difficult to determine. In addition, patients battling PAD and who, therefore, are candidates for treatment with PLX-PAD, typically suffer from complications and disorders that may bring to amputation and other complications prior to the completion of the study. This resulting reduction in the number of patients available for evaluation at the end of the study may make it more difficult for us to demonstrate efficacy, as necessary to obtain FDA or EMA approval to market our products. Our cell therapy drug candidates represent new classes of therapy that the marketplace may not understand or accept. Even if we successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our biologic drug candidates, the market may not understand or accept them. We are developing cell therapy product candidates that represent novel treatments and will compete with a number of more conventional products and therapies manufactured and marketed by others, including major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any of our developed and potential products will depend on a number of factors, including: ● the clinical safety and effectiveness of our cell therapy drug candidates and their perceived advantage over alternative treatment methods; ● adverse events involving our cell therapy product candidates or the products or product candidates of others that are stem cell based; and ● the cost of our products and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. If the health care community does not accept our potential products for any of the foregoing reasons, or for any other reason, it could affect our sales, having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers for raw materials needed for the manufacture; if any of these third parties fail or are unable to perform in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture and deliver will be compromised. In order to produce our cell therapy product candidates, we require certain raw of materials in addition to the placenta used in our manufacturing process. These items must be manufactured and supplied to us in sufficient quantities and in compliance with GMP. To meet these requirements, we have entered into supply agreements with firms that manufacture these raw materials to GMP standards. Our requirements for these items are expected to increase if and when we transition to the manufacture of commercial quantities of our biologic drug candidates. In addition, as we proceed with our clinical trial efforts, we must be able to continuously demonstrate to the FDA and the EMA, that we can manufacture our cell therapy product candidates with consistent characteristics. Accordingly, we are materially dependent on these suppliers for supply of GMP-grade components of consistent quality. Our ability to complete ongoing clinical trials may be negatively affected in the event that we are forced to seek and validate a replacement source for any of these critical components. If our processing and storage facility or our clinical manufacturing facilities are damaged or destroyed, our business and prospects would be negatively affected. If our manufacturing and storage facility or the equipment in the facility were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of some or all of the stored units of our cell therapy drug candidates and it would force us to delay our clinical trial processes. We have a clinical manufacturing facility located in Haifa, Israel. If this facility or the equipment in it is significantly damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively replace our manufacturing capacity. - 15 - Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize our cell therapy products, we may encounter a lack of commercial acceptance of our cell therapy products, which would impair the profitability of our business. Our research and development efforts are primarily directed toward obtaining regulatory approval for our potential cell therapy products. Current methods of stem cell collection and use have been widely practiced for a number of years, and our technology and products may not be accepted by the marketplace as readily as these or other competing processes and methodologies. Additionally, our products may not be employed in all potential applications being investigated, and any reduction in applications would limit the market acceptance of our technology and our potential revenues. As a result, even if we obtain all required regulatory approvals, we cannot be certain that our potential cell therapy products will be adopted at a level that would allow us to operate profitably. If we do not keep pace with our competitors and with technological and market changes, our technology and products may become obsolete and our business may suffer. The cellular therapeutics industry, of which we are a part, is very competitive and is subject to technological changes that can be rapid and intense. We have faced, and will continue to face, intense competition from biotechnology, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, academic and research institutions and governmental agencies engaged in cellular therapeutic and drug discovery activities or funding, both in the United States and internationally. Some of these competitors are pursuing the development of cellular therapeutics, drugs and other therapies that target the same diseases and conditions that we target in our clinical and pre-clinical programs. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources, more product candidates and have developed product candidates and processes that directly compete with our products. Our competitors may have developed, or could develop in the future, new products that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. We depend to a significant extent on certain key personnel, the loss of any of whom may materially and adversely affect our company. Our success depends on a significant extent to the continued services of certain highly qualified scientific and management personnel, in particular, Zami Aberman, our Chief Executive Officer, and Yaky Yanay, our Chief Financial Officer. We face competition for qualified personnel from numerous industry sources, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. The loss of service of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. In the event of the loss of services of such personnel, no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the services of adequate replacement personnel. We do not maintain key person insurance on the lives of any of our officers or employ ees. The patent approval process is complex and we cannot be sure that our pending patent applications or future patent applications will be approved. The patent approval process is complex and results are therefore highly uncertain. No assurance can be given that any of our pending patent applications or future patent applications will be approved, that the scope of any patent protection granted will exclude competitors or provide us with competitive advantages, that any of the patents that have been or may be issued to us will be held valid if subsequently challenged, or that other parties will not claim rights to or ownership of our patents or other proprietary rights that we hold. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others have not developed or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our technology or products or design around any patents that have been or may be issued to us or any future licensors. Since patent applications in the United States and in Europe are not publicly disclosed until patents are issued, there can be no assurance that others did not first file applications for products covered by our pending patent applications , nor can we be certain that we will not infringe any patents that may be issued to others pursuant to such applications. - 16 - Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and protect our technology and our cell therapy products. If our patents and proprietary rights agreements do not provide sufficient protection for our technology and our cell therapy products, our business and competitive position will suffer. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to develop our technology and commercialize cell therapy products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have not conducted full freedom of use patent searches and no assurance can be given that patents do not exist or could not be filed which would have an adverse affect on our ability to develop our technology or maintain our competitive position with respect to our potential cell therapy products. If our technology components, devices, designs, products, processes or other subject matter are claimed under other existing United States or foreign patents or are otherwise protected by third party proprietary rights, we may be subject to infringement actions. In such event, we may challenge the validity of such patents or other propri etary rights or we may be required to obtain licenses from such companies in order to develop, manufacture or market our technology or products. There can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain such licenses or that such licenses, if available, could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, the failure to either develop a commercially viable alternative or obtain such licenses could result in delays in marketing our proposed products or the inability to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to defend ourselves against charges of patent infringement or to protect our proprietary rights against third parties, substantial costs will be incurred regardless of whether we are successful. Such proceedings are typically protracted with no certainty of success. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and force us to curtail or cease our development of our technology and the commercialization our potential cell therapy products. We must further protect and develop our technology and products in order to become a profitable company. The initial patent underlying our technology will expire in approximately 2020. If we do not complete the development of our technology and products in development by then, or to create additional sufficient layers of patents, other companies may use the technology to develop competing products. If this happens, we would likely lose our competitive position and our business would likely suffer. Furthermore, the scope of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. In addition, our patents could be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. We also intend to seek patent protection for any of our potential cell therapy products once we have completed their development. We also rely on trade secrets and unpatentable know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. These agreements may be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. If this were to occur, our business and competitive position would suffer. Potential product liability claims could adversely affect our future earnings and financial condition. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in adverse affects. As a result, we may incur significant product liability exposure. We may not be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance at reasonable cost and/or reasonable terms. Excessive insurance costs or uninsured claims would add to our future operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel and the unstable military and political conditions of Israel may cause interruption or suspension of our business operations without warning. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. As a result, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Acts of random terrorism periodically occur which could affect our operations or personnel. - 17 - In addition, Israeli-based companies and companies doing business with Israel, have been the subject of an economic boycott by members of the Arab League and certain other predominantly Muslim countries since Israel's establishment. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with certain Arab countries and the Palestinian Authority, and various declarations have been signed in connection with efforts to resolve some of the economic and political problems in the Middle East, we cannot predict whether or in what manner these problems will be resolved. Wars and acts of terrorism have resulted in significant damage to the Israeli economy, including reducing the level of foreign and local investment. Furthermore, certain of our officers and employees may be obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called up for active military duty at any time. All Israeli male citizens who have served in the army are subject to an obligation to perform reserve duty until they are between 40 and 49 years old, depending upon the nature of their military service. Although our internal control over financial reporting was considered effective as of June 30, 2010, there is no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future, which could result in our financial statements being unreliable, government investigation or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish an annual report by our management assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management's report as of the end of fiscal year 2010 concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. There is, however, no assurance that we will be able to maintain such effective internal control over financial reporting in the future. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting can result in errors or other problems in our financial statements. In addition, our internal control ov er financial reporting is not required to be, and has not been, audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. Because some of our officers and directors are located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, you may have no effective recourse against the management for misconduct and may not be able to enforce judgment and civil liabilities against our officers, directors, experts and agents. Most of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against our officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. Because we do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock, investors seeking dividend income should not purchase shares of our common stock. We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception, and we do not anticipate paying any such dividends for the foreseeable future. Investors seeking dividend income should not invest in our common stock. We have a potential conflict with a prior financing agreement that may expose us to potential litigation. In our subscription agreement for our May 2007 equity financing, or the Prior Financing Agreement, there is a provision that requires us for a period of four years (subject to acceleration under certain circumstances) not to sell any of our common stock for less than $.0125 per share. The Prior Financing Agreement provides that any sale below that number must be preceded by a consent from each purchaser in the placement. Since that date, we have effected a one-for-200 reverse stock split. - 18 - In August 2008, we entered into securities purchase agreements pursuant to which we sold securities at a price higher than the pre-split price of $0.125 and below the post-split price of $2.50. We decided to proceed with this offering notwithstanding this provision for the following reasons: l The agreement did not contain any provisions for the adjustment of the specified minimum price in the event of stock splits and the like. If such agreement were to have contained such a provision, the floor price would be $2.50, which is more than the offering price of this offering. l The majority of purchasers in the private placement have sold the stock purchased in the placement, and thus the number of purchasers whose consent is purportedly required has been substantially reduced. The number of shares outstanding as to which this provision currently applies according the information supplied by our transfer agent is 2,021,545 shares. l An agreement that prevents our Board of Directors from issuing shares that are necessary to finance our business may be unenforceable. l Even if the agreement were considered enforceable and the share price number were to be adjusted for our reverse stock split, we believe that there would be no damage from this offering to the holders of our shares whose consent is purportedly required. In the event that a court were to hold that the issuance of shares below $2.50 per share would violate the Prior Financing Agreement, it is unclear what remedy the court might impose. If the court were to impose a remedy that would be the equivalent of an anti-dilution provision (which is not contained in the Prior Financing Agreement), any issuance of shares would be dilutive to our shareholders, including those who purchase shares in the current offering. In addition, since August 2008, we, on several occasions, raised funds at a price per share which is higher than the pre-split price of $0.125 and below the post-split price of $2.50. In connection with the August, 2008 financing, we approved the issuance of warrants to purchase up to 161,724 shares of our common stock to each of the investors who was a party to the Prior Financing Agreement that held shares purchased pursuant to such agreement, as of August 2008, conditioned on having the investors execute a general release pursuant to which we will be released from liability including, but not limited to, any claims, demands, or causes of action arising out of, relating to, or regarding sales of certain equity securities notwithstanding the above mentioned provision. As of September 1, 2010 we received a general release from some of the investors, and issued them warrants to purchase 105,583 shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 