Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results. Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results have resulted and will continue to result from numerous factors, including: • strategic actions by us, such as acquisitions of businesses, products, or technologies; • the divestiture or discontinuation of a product line or other revenue generating activity, such as our stent grafts; • the relocation and integration of manufacturing operations and other strategic restructuring, such as the transfer of AlboGraft production and the transfer of XenoSure production; • adverse regulatory actions which may necessitate recalls of our products or warning letters that negatively affect the markets for our products, such as the AlboGraft Prohibition Notices in the United Kingdom and France in 2012; • our determination whether or not to continue the payment of quarterly cash dividends; • our determination whether or not to continue share repurchases; • costs incurred by us in connection with the termination of contractual and other relationships, including distributorships; • our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable in selected countries outside of the United States; • changes in the mix of products we sell; • the expiration or exhaustion of deferred tax assets such as net operating loss carry-forwards; • effects of domestic and foreign economic conditions and exchange rates on our industry and/or customers; • increased product and price competition, due to the regulatory landscape, market conditions or other factors; and • the loss of any significant customer, especially in regard to any product that has a limited customer base. 17 Table of Contents These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not always meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. If we are unable to expand our product offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations could suffer. The treatment of peripheral vascular disease is shifting from open vascular surgery to minimally invasive endovascular procedures, and many of our products are used primarily or exclusively in open vascular surgery procedures. We market and sell our products primarily to vascular surgeons, and the majority of our marketing efforts and sales relate to products used in open vascular surgery rather than in endovascular procedures. The transactions we completed in 2011 have further concentrated our focus on open vascular procedures. For instance, in 2011 we divested a large portion of our endovascular product portfolio, our TAArget Thoracic Stent Graft and our UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft, and also ended our relationship with Endologix, Inc. for distribution of its Powerlink stent graft in Europe. Furthermore, notwithstanding periodic product updates and next-generation iterations, many of our devices have been on the market for several years or longer. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors unless we can keep pace with existing or new products and technologies in the vascular device market and the minimally invasive endovascular procedure market, in particular. Our success in developing and commercializing new products and new versions of our existing products is affected by our ability to: • identify in a timely manner new market trends and customer needs; • keep pace with technological changes and industry standards; • obtain regulatory clearance or approval of new products and technologies; • successfully develop cost-effective manufacturing processes for such products; • commercially introduce such products and technologies; and • achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to expand our product offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations could suffer. We may acquire businesses and assets in the future. We may experience difficulties in completing the integration of these acquisitions into our business, or we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. In order to expand our product offerings, we have completed twelve acquisitions, and a key part of our strategy is to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies in the future. Our growth strategy depends in part upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete, and integrate suitable acquisitions and develop products from uncommercialized intellectual property that we acquire. If we are unable to complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms, our growth objectives could be negatively affected. Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating any acquired businesses, personnel, and products into our existing business; • difficulties in integrating manufacturing operations into our existing business or successfully replicating manufacturing processes at new manufacturing facilities; • difficulties or delays in transitioning clinical studies or unfavorable results from such clinical studies; 18 Table of Contents • difficulties or delays in commercializing intellectual property that we acquire; • the sudden reduction in volume or loss of orders from a key customer, particularly where the acquired company has concentrated sales; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • challenges resulting from limited or no prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; • unknown or unanticipated liabilities included as part of the acquisition; • the need to improve an acquired product in order to gain broader market acceptance; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions; • difficulties in acquiring the rights to and protecting intellectual property; • difficulties if the acquired company is remote or inconvenient to our Burlington, Massachusetts, headquarters; • dilution as a result of equity financing required to fund acquisition costs; or • debt as a result of debt financing required to fund acquisition costs, which would be senior to our outstanding shares of capital stock, and which would require interest payments to a lender. We could also discover deficiencies withheld from us due to fraud or otherwise not uncovered in our due diligence prior to an acquisition, including deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, and regulatory compliance, as well as undisclosed contractual or other liabilities and product liabilities, any of which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any of these difficulties could negatively impact our ability to realize the intended and anticipated benefits that we currently expect from our acquisitions or from acquisitions we complete in the future and could harm our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, in October 2012, we acquired the manufacturing and distribution rights of the XenoSure biological patch from Neovasc Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary. We have begun the transfer of the production to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters. We expect this transition to continue into the second half of 2013 resulting in a negative impact to our gross profit. Once the transition is complete, we expect the gross margins on our XenoSure biologic vascular patch to improve beginning in 2014; however, there can be no assurance that these results will be achieved, if at all. Further, the production of the XenoSure biological patch will be our first experience in manufacturing biological tissues. There can be no assurance that we will not experience delays or additional expenses associated with the transfer of this patch and there can be no assurance that our current supply agreement with Neovasc will be sufficient to meet sales demand during the transition. For any of these reasons or as a result of other factors, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of this acquisition and our operating results may be harmed. We face intense competition from other companies, technologies, and alternative medical procedures and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, subject to change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other activities of industry participants. Although no one company competes against us in all of our product lines, a number of manufacturers of peripheral vascular devices have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs, and larger facilities than ours; have established reputations with our target customers; and have developed worldwide distribution channels that are more 19 Table of Contents effective than ours. Our competitors could elect to devote additional resources to the markets in which we currently enjoy less competition. Also, although we currently have leading market positions in the markets for some of our products, this is not true for the markets for all of our products. We have from time to time experienced difficulties competing against very large companies. Recent industry consolidation could make the competitive environment more difficult for smaller companies like ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, regulatory, marketing, sales, and personnel resources than we do. Certain of these competitors are able to manufacture at lower costs and may therefore offer comparable products at lower prices. Certain of these competitors may also have greater experience in developing and further improving products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing such products. Certain of these competitors may obtain patent protection or regulatory approval or clearance, or achieve product commercialization, before us, any of which could materially adversely affect us. Further, if the trend towards endovascular procedures versus open vascular procedures continues or accelerates, our competitors may be better poised to take advantage of that trend, since our main product lines are used primarily in open vascular procedures. Because of the size of the vascular disease market opportunity, competitors and potential competitors have dedicated, and we believe will continue to dedicate, significant resources to aggressively promote their products. Also, new product developments that could compete with us more effectively are likely because the vascular disease market is characterized by extensive research efforts and technological progress. Competitors may develop technologies and products that are safer, more effective, easier to use, less expensive, or more readily accepted than ours. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may also be able to achieve more efficient manufacturing and distribution operations than we can. In addition, many of our products face competition from alternative procedures that utilize a different kind of medical device that we do not currently sell. Increased competition could also result in price reductions and loss of market share, any of which could result in lower revenues and reduced gross profits. If we fail to convert additional countries or products from distributor sales to direct sales, or encounter difficulties in effecting such conversions, our results of operations could suffer. In 2012, we converted Switzerland from distributor sales to direct sales. In the future, we also intend to convert select other countries and products from distributor sales to direct sales, including in Japan where we recently agreed to terminate our distributor for a certain territory. Such conversions typically result in disruptions in our sales in the applicable geographies. These transitions may also have an adverse effect on our cash flow from operations because distributors, unlike direct sales personnel, pay us for inventory that they stock for later sale. In addition, switching to a direct sales force may subject us to longer customer collection times and larger bad debt expense, since we would be required to collect customer payments directly rather than through a distributor. Our distribution agreements are typically exclusive with terms of up to three years. These agreements may temporarily constrain our ability to convert certain countries or products from a distributor to a direct sales model. Further, even where the payment of compensation is not required by contract or local law, it may be prudent to make such a payment in order to assure a successful market transition. For example, we paid consulting and transition services fees to our former distributor in Japan in connection with the conversion to direct sales in a specific territory in Japan even though not required under an existing contract, because the absence of cooperation by a distributor may result in the sudden erosion of our customer base, which could materially harm our ability to sell our product in that country. Following termination of any distribution relationship, we may encounter difficulties in transitioning to a direct-sales model in any country in question. It may take us longer than expected to find sufficient qualified sales personnel to establish an effective sales force, which could negatively impact projected sales. If a distributor sold our products through a network of sales agents, rather than exclusively through its own personnel, we may not be able to establish relationships with all members of that network, temporarily limiting 20 Table of Contents our access to the existing market. Similarly, failure to maintain or quickly re-establish a distributor’s close relationships with the physicians who use our products could cause a drop in sales. Further, it may be difficult or impossible to transfer the assignment of a distributor’s rights to sell our products, and as a result sales to customers may be delayed until a new agreement or approval is obtained. The transition to a direct sales model may also require us to incur additional expenses and meet regulatory requirements that were previously the responsibility of the distributor. As a result of these risks, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in transitioning to a direct sales model in Spain, Denmark, or any other countries that we select, and difficulties that we encounter in these transitions could negatively affect our business. Current economic instability may harm our operating results. Since 2011, financial markets and the economies in the European Union have experienced disruption and volatility and conditions could worsen. As a result, the economic environment may, among other things: • create downward pressure on the pricing of our products; • adversely affect the collection of accounts receivable, particularly in regions of southern Europe such as Italy, Spain, and Greece; • increase the sales cycle for certain of our products, resulting in higher levels of inventory; • slow the adoption of new technology; • adversely affect our customers, causing them to reduce spending; and • adversely affect our suppliers, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products. Any of these conditions could harm our operating results and liquidity. If we are unable to increase our selling prices to customers, our rate of net sales growth might be reduced and our operating results could suffer. In the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, a material portion of our increases in net sales was driven by higher average selling prices to our hospital customers across several of our product lines, particularly with respect to sales occurring in the United States. We have in the past been able to rely upon our intellectual property position, our well-known brands, our established reputation in the vascular surgery device marketplace, and, in some cases, an absence of competition, to implement price increases. If healthcare spending is reduced, particularly in the United States, in response either to government-enacted healthcare reform or to general economic conditions, if the reimbursement rates for the medical procedures in which our products are used are reduced or constrained, or if competitors introduce lower-priced products of comparable safety and efficacy, we may become unable to implement further increases in the selling prices of our products. If we become unable to raise selling prices, it might reduce our rate of net sales growth, which could harm our operating results. Our devices may not achieve market acceptance, which could adversely affect our business. Some of our devices have been recently introduced into the market, including The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter and the Over-The-Wire LeMaitre Valvulotome, and we cannot assure you that any of those devices will achieve market acceptance. The same is true of new devices that we may acquire or internally develop in the future. The marketing of our products requires a significant amount of time and expense in order to identify and develop relationships with the physicians who may use our products, invest in training and education with these physicians, and employ a sales force that is large enough to interact with the targeted physicians, with no assurance of success. In some cases, our devices may face competition from devices marketed by our competitors, and our customers may not prefer our devices. In other cases, our devices may be used in new procedures and techniques, and if physicians do not adopt these procedures and techniques, demand 21 Table of Contents for these devices would fail to develop. For example, in 2010 we launched The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter in Europe, but it did not achieve widespread market adoption because of user convenience and design issues. This catheter was subsequently withdrawn from the market, redesigned by our research and development department, and then re-released into European and United States markets in the fourth quarter of 2011. Notwithstanding the redesign, sales of the UnBalloon did not meet our expectations in 2012. If our products do not gain market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in markets outside of the United States. For the full year ended December 31, 2012, 33% of our net sales were derived from our operations outside of the Americas. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations, including export licensing requirements, duties and tariffs, and other trade restrictions; • the risk of non-compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by our sales representatives or our distributors; • the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity; • a shortage of high-quality sales personnel and distributors; • loss of any key personnel who possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities, which could result in significant fines, penalties, and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; • exposure to different legal and political standards; and • political, economic, and/or social instability. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We depend on single- and limited-source suppliers for some of the components to our products, as well as for acquired products that have not been transitioned to in-house manufacture, and if any of those suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply them on acceptable terms or otherwise, it could limit our ability to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis or at all. We rely on single- and limited-source suppliers for some of our important product components, as well as for products we have acquired that are not manufactured in-house. For example, our EndoRE remote endarterectomy product line is manufactured for us by third-party suppliers. There are relatively few, or in some cases no, alternative, validated sources of supply for these components and products. We do not have supply agreements with most of these suppliers, and instead place orders on an as-needed basis. These suppliers could discontinue or be rendered incapable of the manufacture or supply of these components or products at any time. We do not carry a significant inventory of these components and products. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers, if required, may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any supply interruption from our vendors or failure to obtain additional vendors for any of the components used to manufacture our products would limit our ability to manufacture our products, may result in production delays and increased costs, and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. If we are unable to identify alternate sources of supply for the components, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increase design and manufacturing costs, and increase prices for our products. We cannot assure you that any such modified products would be as effective as the predecessor products, or that such modified products would gain market acceptance. This could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation and our financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. If we cannot extend the leases for our manufacturing facilities in Burlington, Massachusetts, then we will need to relocate to suitable facilities elsewhere, which could represent a significant expense and harm our results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our current and future real estate leases. We lease our executive offices and manufacturing facilities in Burlington, Massachusetts, and we have made, and continue to make, substantial investments in those facilities in order to manufacture our products, and new products we acquire, there. For example, we are currently in the process of building a clean room and making other improvements to our Burlington, Massachusetts facility in order to move the manufacture of XenoSure to that facility. The costs of these improvements are significant and we expect that they will continue through 2013. The leases for our Burlington facilities expire in 2017. If we are unable to renew those leases on acceptable terms or at all, then we will need to relocate to suitable facilities elsewhere. The costs of relocation could be significant, which could harm our results of operations. Additionally, those new manufacturing facilities would need to be modified to our specifications in order to permit us to manufacture our products, which could be costly, and would need to be certified to certain management system standards in order to enable us to satisfy certain regulatory requirements of the European Union, Canada, and other foreign jurisdictions. If we were to lose these certifications, we would no longer be able to sell our products in those countries until we made the necessary corrections to our operations, which could represent a delay in manufacturing and result in losses to us. Any disruption in our manufacturing facilities could harm our results of operations. Our principal worldwide executive, distribution, and manufacturing operations are located at adjacent 27,098 square foot and 27,289 square foot leased facilities located in Burlington, Massachusetts. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace in the event of a natural or man-made disaster. In such event, we could not shift production to alternate manufacturing facilities, and we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses, including potential damage to our reputation, and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. 23 Table of Contents Our focus on the needs of vascular surgeons could harm our business if interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists perform a greater percentage of new procedures that replace those procedures traditionally performed by vascular surgeons, or if vascular surgeons increasingly specialize in procedures for which we do not sell devices. The treatment of peripheral vascular disease is increasingly shifting from open vascular surgery to minimally invasive endovascular procedures. We market and sell our products primarily to vascular surgeons, and the majority of our marketing efforts and sales relate to products used in open vascular surgery rather than in endovascular procedures. The transactions we completed in 2011 have further concentrated our focus on open vascular procedures. For instance, in 2011 we divested a large portion of our endovascular product portfolio, our TAArget Thoracic Stent Graft and our UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft, and further ended our relationship with Endologix, Inc. for distribution of its Powerlink stent graft. In addition to performing traditional open surgical procedures, vascular surgeons in growing numbers also perform minimally invasive, image-guided interventional procedures for peripheral vascular disease. However, vascular surgeons may not adopt these procedures in the numbers we expect and instead these procedures may be largely performed by interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists. Many of our competitors have focused their sales efforts on these interventionalists. If interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists perform a greater percentage of these new procedures than we expect, our net sales may decline. Moreover, demographic trends and other market factors, such as reimbursement rates, are driving vascular surgeons in the United States and potentially in other markets to increasingly specialize in certain kinds of procedures, such as endovascular therapies, the creation and maintenance of dialysis access sites, and the treatment of varicose veins. Sometimes these physicians will discontinue performing other vascular procedures. If this trend continues, it could lead to the fragmentation of our customer base, which would reduce cross-selling opportunities and the efficiency of each sales call by our sales representatives, which in turn would negatively impact our business. The use or misuse of our products may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured, or labeled, contain defective components, or are misused, or if our products are found to have caused or contributed to injuries or death, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Although we offer training for physicians in the use of some of our products, we do not require that physicians be trained in the use of our products, and physicians may use our products incorrectly or in procedures not contemplated by us. We are from time to time involved in product liability claims. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, and result in sizable damage awards against us. Claims of this nature may also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market and subject us to product recalls. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any claim made against us. Further, we may not be able to maintain the same level of coverage, and we may not be able to obtain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing coverage in the future. Additionally, if any such product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or is in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment Oversight of the medical device industry might affect the manner in which we may sell medical devices and compete in the marketplace. There are laws and regulations that govern the means by which companies in the healthcare industry may market their products to healthcare professionals and may compete by discounting the prices of their products, including for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, state law equivalents to these federal laws that are meant to protect against fraud and abuse and analogous laws in foreign countries. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Although we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices and customer discount arrangements to comply with those laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that: • government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing those laws will not assert that our sales and marketing practices or customer discount arrangements are in violation of those laws or regulations; or • government regulators or courts will interpret those laws or regulations in a manner consistent with our interpretation. Federal and state laws are also sometimes open to interpretation, and from time to time we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage if our interpretation differs from that of our competitors. In January 2004, AdvaMed, the principal United States trade association for the medical device industry, put in place a model “code of conduct” that sets forth standards by which its members should abide in the promotion of their products. AdvaMed issued a revised “code of conduct” effective July 1, 2009. We have in place policies and procedures for compliance that we believe are at least as stringent as those set forth in the revised AdvaMed Code, and we provide routine training to our sales and marketing personnel on our policies regarding sales and marketing practices. Nevertheless, the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. For example, recent federal legislation and state legislation require detailed disclosure of gifts and other remuneration made to health care professionals. In addition, prosecutorial scrutiny and governmental oversight, on the state and federal levels, over device companies regarding the retention of healthcare professionals as consultants has limited the manner in which medical device companies may retain healthcare professionals as consultants. Various hospital organizations, medical societies and trade associations are establishing their own practices that may require detailed disclosures of relationships between healthcare professionals and medical device companies or ban or restrict certain marketing and sales practices such as gifts and business meals. Our business is subject to complex, costly, and burdensome regulations. We could be subject to significant penalties if we fail to comply. The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. U.S. and foreign regulations applicable to medical devices are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, the testing, marketing, and premarket clearance or approval of new medical devices, in addition to regulating manufacturing practices, reporting, promotion and advertising, importing and exporting, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in governmental agencies or a court taking action, including any of the following: • issuing public warning letters to us; • imposing fines and penalties on us; 25 Table of Contents • issuing an injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; • bringing civil or criminal charges against us; • delaying the introduction of our new products into the market; • ordering a recall of, or detaining or seizing, our products; or • withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. If any or all of the foregoing were to occur, our business, results of operations, and reputation could suffer. If we are not successful in obtaining and maintaining clearances and approvals from governmental agencies, we will not be able to sell our products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered. Our products require premarket clearance or approval in the United States and the CE Mark or other approvals in foreign countries where they are sold. Each medical device that we wish to market in the United States generally must receive either 510(k) clearance or approval of a premarket application, or PMA, from the FDA before the product can be marketed or sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance procedure usually takes from three to twelve months from the date the FDA receives the application, but may take significantly longer. Although 510(k) clearances have been obtained for nearly all of our current products that require 510(k) clearances, the FDA may condition, limit or prohibit our sales of these products if safety or effectiveness problems develop with the devices. Our new products or significantly modified marketed products could be denied 510(k) clearance and required to undergo the more burdensome PMA approval process if they are not found to be substantially equivalent. The PMA approval process is much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain than the premarket notification process. It generally takes from six months to three years from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with, the FDA, and may take even longer. Achieving premarket approval typically requires extensive clinical trials and may require the filing of numerous amendments with the FDA over time. We do not have significant experience in obtaining PMA approval for our products. The FDA has proposed changes for which FDA clearance to market would possibly require clinical data, more extensive manufacturing information and post market data. As part of the 510(k) reform, the FDA proposes to issue regulations defining grounds and procedures for rescission of 510(k) applications that have previously been cleared to market. The FDA may also require the more extensive PMA process for certain products. Our ability to market our products outside the United States is also subject to regulatory approval, including our ability to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products in the clinical setting. Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, the approval or clearance could limit the uses or the claims for which the product may be labeled and promoted, which may limit the market for our products. If we do not obtain and maintain foreign regulatory or FDA approval with respect to our products, as applicable, we will not be able to sell our products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered. If we or some of our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and other applicable post market requirements, our manufacturing operations could be disrupted, our product sales and profitability could suffer, and we may become subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with any regulatory requirements, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions. We and some of our suppliers must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality 26 Table of Contents assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage, and shipping of medical devices. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation through pre-announced and unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. In December 2011, January 2012, June 2012, October 2012 and March 2013, we underwent audits from our European Notified Body, MHRA, and the FDA. Although the results of these inspections were generally satisfactory, the timing and scope of future audits is unknown and it is possible, despite our belief that our quality systems and the operation of our manufacturing facilities will remain in compliance with U.S, and non-U.S. regulatory requirements, that a future audit may result in one or more unsatisfactory results. If we or one of our suppliers fails a Quality System Regulation inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by us or one of our suppliers is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action against us, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. We are also subject to the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or off-label uses and to the medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or if our device malfunctions and a recurrence of the malfunction would likely result in a death or serious injury. We must also file reports with the FDA of some device corrections and removals, and we must adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. If we fail to comply with these or other FDA requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take significant enforcement actions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and our reputation. In addition, most other countries, such as Japan, require us to comply with manufacturing and quality assurance standards for medical devices that are similar to those in force in the United States before marketing and selling our products in those countries. If we fail to comply, we would lose our ability to market and sell our products in those foreign countries. Even after our products have received marketing approval or clearance, our products may be subject to product recalls or product approvals and clearances could be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. Our products, marketing, sales and development activities, and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA, by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. These authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. If those regulatory bodies feel that we have failed to comply with regulatory standards or if we encounter unforeseen problems following initial approval of our products, there can be no assurance that any approval will not be subsequently withdrawn, suspended or conditioned upon extensive post-market study requirements, even after products have received marketing approval or clearance. Further, due to the increased scrutiny of our industry by the various regulatory agencies and the interconnectedness of the various regulatory agencies, particularly within the European Union, there is also no assurance that withdrawal or suspension of any of our product approvals by any single regulatory agency will not precipitate one or more additional regulatory agencies from also withdrawing or suspending approval of any such product. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we can voluntarily recall, or the FDA or foreign equivalent could require us to implement a recall of, any of our products, and, if someone is harmed by a malfunction or a product defect, we may experience product liability claims for such defects. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital and may harm our reputation and financial results. Future recalls or claims could also result in significant costs to us and significant adverse publicity, which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. In October 2011, we received complaints of two AlboGraft device failures which resulted in a voluntary recall of one production lot of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft. In February 2012, we received complaints of two additional AlboGraft device failures, which resulted in a voluntary recall of one additional production lot. We believe that we isolated the root cause of these device failures and implemented corrective actions beginning with 27 Table of Contents lots produced in November 2011. Subsequent to the February 2012 recall, we received four additional complaints regarding our AlboGraft Vascular Graft. Although the investigation was inconclusive, we believe these complaints were unrelated to the product failures which resulted in the recalls and were isolated manufacturing defects. In October 2012, we received a fifth complaint regarding our AlboGraft Vascular Graft. We believe this complaint was unrelated to the product failures which resulted in the previous recalls and was an isolated manufacturing defect, which we have subsequently addressed through corrective actions implemented in April 2012. However, there can be no assurance that these product failures and manufacturing defects will not reoccur or that other problems related to our AlboGraft Vascular Graft will not develop in the future. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we can voluntarily recall, or the FDA or foreign equivalent could require us to implement a recall of, any of our products and, if someone is harmed by a malfunction or a product defect, we may experience product liability claims for such defects. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital and may harm our reputation and financial results. Future recalls or claims could also result in significant costs to us and significant adverse publicity, which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. As a result of the complaints described above, in March 2012, the MHRA issued a Medical Device Alert advising doctors to use caution when implanting our AlboGraft Vascular Grafts. In April 2012, the MHRA and ANSM issued Prohibition Notices, which prohibited our ability to sell AlboGraft Vascular Grafts in the UK and France pending our ability to address the concerns of these regulatory agencies. In July 2012, the ANSM rescinded its Prohibition Notice without qualification, and MHRA rescinded its Prohibition Notice with the qualification that all AlboGraft devices must be tested prior to implant. As of January 1, 2013, the MHRA removed the prior test qualification in the United Kingdom. Although the Prohibition Notices have been lifted and sales have resumed in the United Kingdom and France, they will likely continue to adversely affect sales in these countries, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The United Kingdom and France represented approximately 40% of our AlboGraft Vascular Graft sales volume in 2011. Sales of AlboGraft in the United Kingdom and France were $0.5 million in 2012 compared to $1.0 million in 2011. Additionally, there can be no assurance that additional countries will not also issue their own prohibitions against sales of our AlboGraft devices, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In March 2010, significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were adopted in the form of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). The PPACA includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law also requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. In 2013, we believe we will pay an excise tax of approximately $0.7 million. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The PPACA and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. In addition, the excise tax will increase our cost of doing business. The impact of the PPACA and these proposals could harm our operating results and liquidity. Domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our devices. Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of our products because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to 28 Table of Contents pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan, France and other countries may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. For example, in an effort to decrease costs, certain hospitals and other customers may resterilize our products intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors in lieu of purchasing new products from us. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the United States and abroad, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or result in the denial of coverage for those procedures. Examples of these reforms or adverse decisions include price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements. Any of such reforms or adverse decisions resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices or denials of coverage could have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. If we do not comply with foreign regulatory requirements to market our products outside the United States, our business will be harmed. Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. These requirements and the amount of time required for approval may differ from our experiences with the FDA in the United States. In some cases, we rely on our non-U.S. distributors to obtain premarket approvals, complete product registrations, comply with clinical trial requirements, and complete those steps that are customarily taken in the applicable jurisdictions to comply with governmental and quasi-governmental regulation. In the future, we expect to continue to rely on distributors in this manner in those countries where we continue to market and sell our products through them. Failure to satisfy these foreign regulations would impact our ability to sell our products in these countries and could cause our business to suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain the required regulatory approvals in these countries. Our products are regulated in the European Union under the European Medical Devices Directive (93/42/EC as amended by 2007/47/EC). In order to market our medical devices in the European Union, we are required to obtain CE mark certification, which denotes conformity to the essential requirements of the Medical Devices Directive. We have received CE mark certification to sell nearly all of our products. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a CE mark for new products in the future or for modifications to our existing products or in the manufacturing of our products, and obtaining a CE mark may involve a significant amount of time and expense, stringent clinical and preclinical testing, or modification of our products and could result in limitations being placed on the use of our products in order to obtain approval. Maintaining a CE mark is contingent upon our continued compliance with applicable European medical device requirements, including limitations on advertising and promotion of medical devices and requirements governing the handling of adverse events. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining the CE mark for any of our current products. In particular, adverse event reporting requirements in the European Union mandate that we report incidents which led or could have led to death or serious deterioration in health. Under certain circumstances, we could be required to or could voluntarily initiate a recall or removal of our product from the market in order to address product deficiencies or malfunctions. For instance, we initiated 29 Table of Contents voluntary recalls of two lots of our AlboGraft vascular graft in October 2011 and February 2012, respectively, in response to customer complaints of a manufacturing defect. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources. Failure to receive or maintain approval would prohibit us from selling these products in member countries of the European Union, and would require significant delays in obtaining individual country approvals. If we do not receive or maintain these approvals, our business could be harmed. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by European regulatory authorities and Notified Bodies, and we must demonstrate compliance with the Medical Devices Directive. Our most recent periodic inspection by our European Notified Body was in December 2012. Any failure by us to comply with European requirements in this regard may entail our taking corrective action, such as modification of our policies and procedures. In addition, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations for some period of time until we can demonstrate that appropriate steps have been taken. There can be no assurance that we will be found in compliance with such standards in future audits. In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) regulates medical devices through the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, which was reformed effective April 1, 2005. The revisions to Japanese regulations have resulted in longer lead times for product development. Any such delay in product registrations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Certain of our products contain materials derived from animal sources and may become subject to additional regulation. Our AlboGraft Vascular Graft, AlboSure Vascular Patch, and XenoSure Biologic Patch products contain bovine tissue or material derived from bovine tissue. Products that contain materials derived from animal sources, including food, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, are increasingly subject to scrutiny in the media and by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities are concerned about the potential for the transmission of disease from animals to humans via those materials. This public scrutiny has been particularly acute in Japan and Western Europe with respect to products derived from animal sources, because of concern that materials infected with the agent that causes bovine spongiform encephalopathy, otherwise known as BSE or mad cow disease, may, if ingested or implanted, cause a variant of the human Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, an ultimately fatal disease with no known cure. Cases of BSE in cattle discovered in Canada and the United States have increased awareness of the issue in North America. Certain countries, such as Japan, have issued regulations that require our products be processed from bovine tissue sourced from countries where no cases of BSE have occurred. Products that contain materials derived from animals, including our products, may become subject to additional regulation, or even be banned in certain countries, because of concern over the potential for the transmission of infections agents. Significant new regulation, or a ban of our products, could impair our current business or our ability to expand our business. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or prevent use of our intellectual property by third parties, we could lose a significant competitive advantage and our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how, and trademark laws, as well as license agreements and contractual provisions, to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These measures may only afford limited protection and may not: • prevent our competitors from duplicating our products; 30 Table of Contents • prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology; or • permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Furthermore, the patents associated with the Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotomes will expire in 2015, and our patent applications associated with the Over-The-Wire Valvulotome are still pending (and we cannot predict when they will issue, if at all). Valvulotomes were our highest net sales product line in 2012. With the pending expiration of patents associated with the Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotomes in 2015, it is possible that other manufacturers will attempt to market and sell valvulotomes substantially similar, or identical, to the Expandable LeMaitre Valvulotomes. To the extent any of these manufacturers are successful this could have an adverse impact on our business and harm our sales and operating results. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain in the future might also be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In addition, our pending patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not provide commercially meaningful protection, as competitors may be able to design around our patents to produce alternative, non-infringing designs. Should such challenges to our patents be successful, competitors might be able to market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to ours. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. We have a policy of requiring key employees and consultants and corporate partners with access to trade secrets or other confidential information to execute confidentiality agreements. Our confidentiality agreements also require our employees to assign to us all rights to any inventions made or conceived during their employment with us. We also generally require our consultants to assign to us any inventions made during the course of their engagement by us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer, or disclosure of confidential information or inventions. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products, or services and our competitors could commercialize similar technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs, and we may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights, and we cannot assure you that our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property; • harm our reputation; • cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; 31 Table of Contents • require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products, which may not be possible and could be costly and time consuming if it is possible to do so at all; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, which agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all; • divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business; or • result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. It is also possible that one of our competitors could claim that our manufacturing process violates an existing patent. If we were unsuccessful in defending such a claim, we may be forced to stop production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product’s continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. If our business is successful, the possibility may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us. If we believe our product is or may be the subject of a patent with a third party, we may attempt to reach a license agreement with them to manufacture, market, and sell these products. If we fail to reach an agreement with a third party patent holder that covers a product we offer, we could be required to pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property and may be forced to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. In addition, we may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the United States Patent Office or opposition proceedings conducted in foreign patent offices challenging the priority of invention or the validity of our patents. For example, in 2005 and 2006, respectively, Boston Scientific Corporation initiated opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office claiming that we were not the first to file a patent application on certain material. As a result of these opposition proceedings, some of our patent claims were canceled. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities that is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, a low volume of trading in our common stock, and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; • public concern as to the safety or efficacy of our products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • our determination whether or not to continue the payment of quarterly cash dividends; 32 Table of Contents • our determination whether or not to continue our share repurchase program; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • our inability to raise additional capital; • changes in financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, and responses to such events; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; • light volume of trades of our common stock; • the discontinuation of a product line or other revenue generating activity, such as our stent grafts; • adverse regulatory actions which may necessitate recalls of our products or warning letters that negatively affect the markets for our products; • sales of common stock by us or our directors, officers, or principal stockholders; • our relatively small public float; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies, or our industry generally. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our business. Our directors, officers, and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Our directors, officers, and affiliated stockholders holding more than 5% of our common stock collectively control almost a majority of our outstanding common stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, would be able to control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, might adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to common stockholders in the future. In February 2011, our Board of Directors adopted a quarterly dividend program for the purpose of returning capital to our stockholders. However, we have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents we file from time to time with the SEC. Future dividends, if any, will be authorized by our Board of Directors and declared by us based upon a variety of factors deemed relevant by our directors, including, among other things, our financial condition, liquidity, earnings projections and business prospects. In addition, financial covenants in any credit facility to which we become a party may restrict our ability to pay future quarterly dividends. We can provide no assurance of our ability to pay dividends in the future. 33 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors may decide not to continue our share repurchase program. In July 2009, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 million of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. In October 2009, our Board of Directors increased this amount to $2.0 million, and in July 2010, our Board of Directors further increased this amount to $5.0 million. In November 2011, our Board of Directors further increased this amount to $10.0 million and extended the program through December 31, 2013. The timing and number of any shares repurchased will be determined based on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. Repurchases may also be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan, which would permit shares to be repurchased when we might otherwise be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time and will conclude no later than December 31, 2013, unless otherwise extended by our Board of Directors. If the Board of Directors withdraws authority for our share repurchase program, our stock price may be negatively affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 