D. Risk Factors Industrial risks and risks related to the economic, commercial and contractual environment. Failure to comply with laws and government regulations or to react to changes in laws and regulations could significantly affect our business We are subject to energy, environmental and administrative laws and government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the energy services and environmental business, which may include ethical issues, money laundering, privacy, record keeping, and anti-corruption practices. Furthermore, we cannot predict the timing or form of any future regulatory or law enforcement initiatives. Changes in existing energy and environmental laws and regulations may materially affect the way in which we conduct our business, our products or services and the value of our assets. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, these changes or initiatives in an appropriate way, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional legal risk. This could, in turn , increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties. Despite our best efforts to comply with applicable regulations, there are a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear or where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings. The regulators and law enforcement have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, among other things, in suspension or revocation of one or more of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. SUEZ 2005 FORM 20-F | 4 Back to contents Many aspects of our business, particularly the production, transport and distribution of electricity, the transport and distribution of natural gas and liquefied natural gas, or LNG, water management, the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities, and the collection and treatment of waste, are subject to strict regulations at the European, national and local levels, including antitrust regulation and required licenses, permits and authorizations. Regulatory changes may affect prices, margins, investments, operations, systems, and consequently, our strategy, financial condition and profitability. Despite the oversight systems we have put in place, it is impossible to anticipate all regulatory changes. Our businesses are also subject to numerous laws and regulations concerning the environment, health protection and safety standards, related to air quality, waste water, drinking water quality, the treatment of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, the management of nuclear facilities and LNG terminals, and soil contamination. A change or tightening of these laws and regulations could lead to costs or investments, including non-recoverable costs if we are forced to close down an operation. Furthermore, in the course of our business, we must obtain and renew various permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities, an often long, unpredictable and costly process. Despite the substantial expense of applying for such permits or authorizations, they may in the end not be granted, or be granted too late. Finally, regulations require investments and operational outlays not just by us, but also by our customers, particularly concession-granting municipalities, to upgrade their facilities to regulatory standards. If the customer does not meet these obligations, our reputation as an operator and our growth perspective may be damaged. Our energy trading activity, including fuel procurement and power marketing, exposes us to risks associated with the fluctuation of energy prices, the participation in evolving markets, exposures to our counterparties and other factors that may have a negative effect on our financial results We trade natural gas, electricity, crude oil and other petroleum products as well as emission rights on the spot market and other competitive markets. We also enter into derivative contracts and a variety of other instruments to purchase and sell natural gas, electricity, petroleum products and coal as part of our energy trading operations or for our own use. With respect to such transactions, our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon the prevailing market prices for power in our regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. As a result, our energy trading activities, including fuel procurement and power marketing, expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage our exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and other risk management activities. However, these may not always be followed or may not work as planned and cannot always eliminate risks associated with energy trading. As a result, we cannot predict the impact our energy trading and risk management decisions may have on our business, results of operations or financial position. Authorities with jurisdiction over wholesale power rates in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, as well as independent system operators overseeing some of these markets, may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms which may adversely impact or otherwise limit trading margins and lead to diminished opportunities for gain. We are also exposed to the risk that counterparties to our energy trading contracts owing us money or energy will breach their obligations. In such cases, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at the then-current market prices, which may exceed our contractual prices and adversely affect our results of operations and/or result in losses. Although we attempt to estimate probability of default by a counterparty, we cannot predict our actual exposure to this risk. Certain of our businesses may be negatively affected by economic slowdowns or raw material price increases Some of our business areas, especially those services supplied to industrial customers, are sensitive to economic cycles. Any economic slowdown, particularly in developed countries, has a rapid effect of reducing industrial investment, and, as a result, a negative influence on demand for the engineering and installation services that our service companies offer. This fluctuation in demand results in significant variations in activity levels in these businesses, which may result in reduced revenues in some periods. SUEZ 2005 FORM 20-F | 5 Back to contents In western Europe, our business for industrial customers may also be affected if those customers relocate some of their activities to countries with lower salary levels. Similarly, changes in raw materials prices, especially with respect to oil-based products whose prices are subject to sudden rises, may have a significant impact on the cost of supplies. Despite the fact that most contracts contain cost indexing clauses, it is possible that the indexing formula used is not perfect or takes time to come into effect, and does not therefore completely offset the cost increase. The profitability of affected businesses may therefore temporarily decrease. We operate in increasingly competitive and evolving markets, which has increased pressure on our market share and may have a negative effect on our financial results Most of our businesses are subject to strong competition both from large international competitors and, in a number of markets, small niche players. Electricity or gas industry deregulation in the European Union and in the United States has opened most markets to new competitors, brought volatility into the market and shortened contract terms. This competitive pressure could have a significant negative effect on our sales prices, margins and our market share. Our Environment businesses of Water and Waste Services are also subject to strong competitive pressure from both international and local operators, the effect of which may be lower prices for our services to industrial or municipal customers or both. Such decreases in prices could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations We hold significant assets and liabilities, earn income and pay expenses of our subsidiaries in US dollars and a variety of foreign currencies. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in euros. Therefore, when we prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses in currencies other than the euro into euros at applicable exchange rates. Significant currency fluctuations, in particular in the United States, Brazil, Chile and Thailand, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, increases and decreases in the value of the euro will affect the value of these items in our Consolidated Financial Statement even if their value has not changed in their original currency. Similarly, many of the commodities and other goods that we purchase as part of ou r operations are indexed in currencies other than the euro, particularly in US dollars. As a result, decreases in the value of the euro against these other currencies, particularly the US dollar, can effectively increase the price we have to pay for these commodities, even if their prices in the index currency does not change, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure by significant customers and suppliers to meet their contractual obligations could significantly impact our business In our Energy and Environment operations, our subsidiaries frequently enter into contracts with municipal authorities or private local entities, the performance of which can depend on a few or even a single customer. This is the case, for example, in delegated water-management contracts, certain electricity production and sale operations involving medium and long-term power purchase agreements, and in the operation of non-hazardous waste incinerators. A customer’s refusal or inability to uphold its contractual obligations, particularly regarding rate adjustments, can compromise the economic equilibrium of the contracts and the profitability of investments we or our subsidiaries have made. Although we usually negotiate contractual provisions requiring compensation for non-performance, full compensation is not always recoverable, which can materially adversely affect our gross revenue and net income. We have faced such situations with our water concessions in Argentina for example. Likewise, in managing our water treatment plants, thermal power plants and waste treatment units, we frequently depend on a limited number of suppliers for water, non-hazardous waste, various types of fuel and equipment. Any supply interruption or delay, or breach of the technical performance warranty of a piece of equipment even if caused by a supplier’s breach of contract, can materially adversely affect a project’s profitability. This is particularly true in electricity generation, with the arrival of new high-output gas turbines. We are subject to risks on retirement commitments We have commitments to employees relating to retirement and various post-employment benefits. Where these commitments arise from defined benefit plans, provisions are made in the accounts, see Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, and their financing is partially covered through pension funds and insurance companies. The risks pertaining to these plans relate to both the amount of the commitments and to the evolution of the related asset coverage. The amount of these commitments is calculated on the basis of estimates which depend on certain assumptions, particularly concerning inflation, salary increases, mortality rates, employee turnover, retirement age, and legal benefits. In the future, these assumptions may be subject to adjustments which may increase our actual commitments to pensions, and it may therefore be necessary to increase the amount of related provisions and, in certain cases, pay in additional contributions. More specifically, changes in national legislation may cause mandatory new adjustments, for example regarding discrimination between beneficiaries. This would have an unfavorable impact on our balance sheet and income. SUEZ 2005 FORM 20-F | 6 Back to contents Furthermore, the calculation of commitments is based on a discount rate, which is tied to market interest rates; a drop in market rates could result in a substantial increase in the present value of commitments, which would not necessarily be offset by an equivalent appreciation of the related asset coverage, whose value is tied to the equity stock market. We are subject to a risk of occupational illnesses and related liability We may be exposed to cases of occupational illness, which may give rise to legal actions against us, and the potential payment of damages and interest. The principal exposures to this risk concern: · activities involving work on facilities situated in the hot zone of nuclear plants due to the risk of ionizing radiation; · activities involving work on pipes or technical facilities which are insulated against heat or cold, or located in flocked areas of buildings, presenting asbestos-related risk; and · activities involving work on refrigeration, air conditioning or hot water network installations entailing the risk of Legionnaire’s disease. We may be negatively affected by the decision of our local and municipal partners to terminate or modify partnership agreements We develop many of our local operations in partnership with municipal governments or private local entities. These partnerships are one of the ways we share economic and financial risks of certain large projects, limiting the capital we commit and enhancing our ability to adapt to specific local-market conditions. Such partnerships may also be required by local regulations. Changes in project plans, local political and economic conditions, or a partner’s financial condition may result in the termination of a partnership, where a partner requests dissolution of a joint venture, sells its interest or exercises its contractual rights to purchase our interest. As a result, we may be required to increase our financial commitment on some projects to maintain our interests, or, in the event of a conflict with a partner, to seek resolution in litigation or arbitration. Such events may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Revenues from markets outside North America and Europe represent a significant portion of our total revenues and our capital employed and present certain country specific risks Although our businesses are primarily concentrated in Europe and North America, revenues from markets outside North America and Europe represented approximately 11% of our revenues and 18% of our capital employed in 2005. Our activities in these countries entail a higher degree of risk than in developed countries. In particular, these include volatility in the gross domestic product of these countries, economic and governmental instability, changing regulations, nationalization or expropriation of private assets, collection difficulties, social unrest, significant fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, income and other taxes levied by foreign governments and local authorities, currency exchange control measures, and other unfavorable interventions and restrictions imposed by foreign governments. Changes in the situation of Suez Environment in Argentina which led to the termination of the Aguas de Santa Fe and Aguas Argentinas concessions are described in Item 4 and Item 8.A. Our business may be negatively affected by changes in interest rates As of December 31, 2005, about 65% of our gross debt was under a variable rate and 35% was under a fixed rate, after taking into account derivative instruments used to hedge underlying exposures to change in interest rates. We may have exposure to interest-rate variations in the future as any rise in interest rates increases the cost of our variable-rate debt. SUEZ 2005 FORM 20-F | 7 Back to contents Environmental risks Exposure to specific environmental regulations and environmental risks generally may negatively affect our financial condition Facilities that we own or manage for local industrial and municipal third parties pose risks to the natural environment, including the air, water and soil, as well as risks to the health of consumers, employees and subcontractors. These health and environmental risks are subject to strict and precise national and international regulations and regular audits by government authorities. Evolving regulations covering environmental responsibility make it difficult to assess risks related to our past activities, particularly in the case of closed landfills. In addition, it is difficult to quantify and assess whether any responsibility would include liability for damage to wildlife habitats or plant species because in any given case, whether or not such damage occurs could be the subject of debate even within the scientific community. Even where past activities complie d with regulations in force when they were in operation, the conditions created by such past activities may nonetheless be a source of pollution to the natural environment in the future, and may be subject to retroactive regulation. Non-compliance with laws and regulations can result in contractual financial penalties or fines. Eight of our sites in the European Union are Seveso “High Tier” sites, whose activities include chlorine solvent incineration, hazardous industrial waste treatment and underground natural gas storage. In the course of our business, we handle or generate dangerous products or by-products, such as fissile materials, fuels, and certain chemical byproducts of water treatment. Some of our waste facilities have industrial and medical waste treatment operations that may be potentially toxic. The gaseous emissions of concern are greenhouse gases, gases precursors of acid rain, toxic gases and dust. In the Water business, the primary potential air pollutants are chlorine and gaseous by-products resulting from accidental releases of water treatment by-products. In addition, waste treatment and sewage treatment operations can create odor problems. Potential impacts of activities on water in the natural environment include leachates from poorly controlled landfills, the release of heavy metals into the environment, and aqueous discharges from the smoke treatment systems of incineration facilities. These various emissions can pollute groundwater and waterways. Sewage treatment plants discharge treated water into the natural environment. It is possible that this water may not meet discharge standards in terms of its organic, nitrogen and phosphorus content. Also, some of the facilities we manage are not equipped to treat rainwater. Soil pollution issues include the storage of hazardous products and liquids, leaks during processes that use hazardous liquids, and storage and spreading of treated sludge. Failure to observe standards may result in contractual financial penalties or fines. Our activities are likely to be covered by stricter national and international standards relating to climate change and related costs may negatively affect our financial position Particularly in electrical power generation and waste treatment and waste recycling, we are engaged in activities that come under national, international and European Union climate change programs established pursuant to the Kyoto Protocols. In particular, on January 1, 2005, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, or EU ETS, came into effect, setting carbon dioxide emission reduction targets for 2005 to 2007. The EU ETS directive covers about one hundred and twenty of our facilities. In Europe, we may experience increased costs with respect to our efforts to comply with these new carbon dioxide regulations. If our activities produce more carbon dioxide than the national allocation plans allow, we may have to enter the market to purchase emissions allowances, to allow us to continue such activities. It is not clear at this stage how expensive it will be to purchase such allowances. In particular, with such a young market, price volatility experienced so far is extremely high. We also face the risk of regulatory uncertainty surrounding our obligations with respect to climate control. For example, the EU ETS directive has not yet been fully implemented in every country of the European Union, and may be implemented differently in each country. Also, the permitted carbon dioxide levels for the 2008-2012 period have not yet been established, and we expect them to be stricter than the levels established for 2005 to 2007. The scope EU ETS directive itself may be revised and we might be negatively affected if more of our activities had to be captured by the revised regulations. In the longer terms the national allocations under the EU ETS directive are planned to be reviewed every five years beginning in 2008, which exposes us to a risk of stricter regulations each time there is a review. Outside of the European Union we face even greater difficulties in assessing our regulatory risk with respect to climate control, in the United States because each state has its own regulations, and internationally where the future is even more unclear. SUEZ 2005 FORM 20-F | 8 Back to contents We may incur liability from our ownership and operation of nuclear facilities We own and operate nuclear power facilities in Belgium for the production of electric power. Risks of liability arise from the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, including mechanical or structural problems at a nuclear facility, the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. Although experience exists at the international level about decommissioning of nuclear facilities at the end of their useful lives, uncertainties remain with respect to the technological and financial aspects depending on their institutional framework which can still evolve in the future. Besides the abandonment of nuclear activities in Belgium, other political decisions or difficulties encountered in obtaining new permits (for example for biomass in the Netherlands and for the offshore wind farm in Belgium), may have a negative effect on our activities and on the improvement of our environmental performance. If the provisions of the Belgian law on the gradual exit from the use of nuclear energy to produce electricity adopted in January 2003 are actually implemented, our revenues could decrease in proportion to the length of the discounted technical life of the facilities from the date of the first effective closing (2015). 