Item 1A: Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves significant risks, which should be considered in addition to other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Adverse market conditions affect our results of operations. The economic performance and value of our real estate assets is subject to all of the risks associated with owning and operating real estate, including risks related to adverse changes in national, regional and local economic and market conditions, changes in retail expenditures by consumers, the perceptions of prospective tenants of the attractiveness of our properties and the success of our anchor tenants. Our properties currently are located in 30 states, primarily in the East and the Midwest. The economic condition of each of our markets may be dependent on one or more industries. An economic downturn generally or in one of these industry sectors may result in an increase in tenant bankruptcies, which may harm our performance in the affected market. Economic and market conditions also may impact the ability of our tenants to make lease payments. If our properties do not generate sufficient income to meet our operating expenses, including future debt service, our income and results of operations would be significantly harmed. 9 Downturns or changes in the retailing industry will have a direct impact on our performance. Our properties consist primarily of neighborhood and community shopping centers. Our performance, therefore, is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. The market for retail space has been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies, the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the increasing market strength of Wal-Mart, including its continued growth as a grocer, the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets, and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues or the Internet. In particular, consolidation within the retail industry has reduced the number of prospective tenants to lease our available space. Furthermore, many national tenants have increased their overall buying power as a result of consolidation, thereby increasing their leverage in negotiating lease terms with us. To the extent that any of these conditions occur or continue, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space. A downturn in our tenants’ businesses, tenant bankruptcies, leasing delays we encounter, particularly with respect to our anchor tenants, will affect our ability to collect balances due from tenants and would seriously harm our operating results. At any time, our tenants may experience a downturn in their businesses that may weaken their financial condition. As a result, our tenants may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, or declare bankruptcy. We are subject to the risk that these tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. Any tenant bankruptcies, leasing delays, or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and material losses to our company and would harm our operating results. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant, the lease guarantor or their property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a tenant assumes the lease while in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a tenant rejects the lease while in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for pre-petition damages. Any unsecured claim we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, which may harm our financial condition. Certain provisions of our leases with our tenants may harm our operating performance. We have entered into leases with some of our tenants that allow the tenant to terminate their lease or to pay reduced rent from us if an anchor tenant in the same shopping center terminates its lease with us or fails to occupy the premises. In that event, we may be unable to re-let the vacated space. Similarly, the leases of some anchor tenants may permit the anchor tenant to transfer its lease to another retailer. The transfer to a new anchor tenant could cause customer traffic in the retail center to decrease, which would reduce the income generated by that retail center. A transfer of a lease to a new anchor tenant could also allow other tenants to make reduced rental payments or to terminate their leases at the retail center. In addition, in many cases, our tenant leases contain provisions giving the tenant the exclusive right to sell particular types of merchandise or provide specific types of services within the particular retail center, or limit the ability of other tenants within that center to sell that merchandise or provide those services. When re-leasing space after a vacancy by one of these other tenants, these provisions may limit the number and types of prospective tenants for the vacant space. The failure to re-let or to re-let on satisfactory terms could harm our operating results. 10 We face considerable competition in the leasing market and may not be able to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire. We face competition from similar retail centers within the trade areas of each of our centers when renewing leases or releasing space as leases expire. In addition, any new competitive properties that are developed within the trade areas of our existing properties may result in increased competition. Even if our tenants do renew or we are successful in re-letting space, it is possible that the terms of renewal or re-letting may be less favorable than existing lease terms. For example, increased competition for tenants may require us to make capital improvements to properties that we would not have otherwise planned to make. Any unbudgeted capital expenditures we undertake may divert cash that would otherwise be available for distributions to stockholders. Ultimately, to the extent we are unable to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire, cash flow from tenants would be decreased resulting in lower operating results. We face increasing competition in the acquisition of additional real estate properties and other assets. We face competition in making acquisitions of additional real estate properties and other assets. Integral to our business strategy is our ability to expand through acquisitions, which requires us to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities that meet our criteria and are comparable with our growth strategy. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities for acquisitions of retail shopping centers, including institutional pension funds, other domestic and foreign institutional investors, other REITs and other owner-operators of shopping centers. These competitors may drive up the price we must pay for the real estate properties, other assets and other companies we seek to acquire, or may succeed in acquiring those companies or assets themselves. In addition, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have greater resources, may be willing to pay more, or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In particular, larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, during 2005, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties continued to increase. This resulted in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for properties, our profitability will be reduced. Current and future development of real estate properties may not yield expected returns and may strain management resources. We are actively involved in establishing joint ventures with third party developers and expect to invest in additional development joint ventures in the future. Our participation in these joint ventures exposes us to the risks inherent in developing real estate, which include construction delays, cost overruns, financing risks, failure to meet expected occupancy and rent levels, delays in and the inability to obtain zoning, occupancy and other governmental permits, and changes in zoning and land use laws. Overall project costs may significantly exceed the costs that were estimated when the project was originally undertaken, which may result in reduced returns, or even losses, from those investments. 11 We anticipate that our working capital reserves and cash flow from operations may not be adequate to cover all of our cash needs and we will have to obtain financing from other sources. We anticipate that our working capital reserves may not be adequate to cover all of our cash needs. In order to cover those needs, we would have to obtain financing from other sources. Sufficient financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on economically feasible terms or on terms acceptable to us. Additional borrowings for working capital purposes will increase our interest expense, and therefore may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2005, we have approximately $1.5 billion of debt, a portion of which is variable rate debt, which may impede our business and operating performance. As of December 31, 2005, we have approximately $1.5 billion of outstanding indebtedness, approximately $392 million of which bears interest at a variable rate, and we have the ability to borrow $72 million of additional variable rate debt under our line of credit. Increases in interest rates on our existing indebtedness would increase our interest expense, which could harm our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions. We also intend to incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions of real estate. We may, in some instances, borrow under our line of credit or borrow new funds to acquire properties. In addition, we may incur or increase our mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by a portfolio of some or all of the real estate properties we acquire. We may also borrow funds, if necessary, to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to stockholders as distributions at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, or otherwise as is necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our substantial debt may harm our business and operating results, including: · Requiring our company to use a substantial portion of our funds from operations to pay interest, which reduces the amount available for distributions; · Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · Making our company more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns and reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; and · Limiting our ability to borrow more money for operations, capital or to finance acquisitions in the future. Our financial covenants may restrict our operating or acquisition activities. The mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. In addition, our outstanding unsecured debt contains customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt to assets ratios, secured debt to total asset ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt, which we must maintain. Our ability to borrow under our line of credit and bridge loan is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants. We rely on borrowings under our line of credit to finance acquisitions and redevelopment activities and for working capital, and if we were unable to borrow under our line of credit or to refinance existing indebtedness, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely impacted. Our line of credit, bridge loan, and the indentures under which we have previously issued unsecured public debt also contain limitations on our ability to incur future secured and unsecured debt. If we need to pledge properties in order to borrow additional funds, these covenants could reduce our flexibility in conducting 12 our operations by limiting our ability to borrow and may create a risk of default on our debt if we cannot continue to satisfy these covenants. If we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lender can declare a default and require us to repay the debt immediately and, if the debt is secured, can immediately take possession of the property securing the loan. We could become too highly leveraged because our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of debt we may incur. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we, or our operating partnerships, Heritage OP and Bradley OP, may incur. Although we intend to maintain a balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our portfolio, we could alter this balance at any time. If we become highly leveraged, the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and harm our financial condition. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact us. The floating rates of interest applicable to our line of credit and bridge loan are determined based on the credit ratings of our debt provided by independent rating agencies. Thus, if these credit ratings are downgraded, our interest expense will be, and our ability to raise additional debt may be, negatively impacted. We do not have exclusive control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. We have invested in some cases as a co-venturer in the development of new properties, instead of developing projects directly. These investments involve risks not present in a wholly owned development project. In these investments, we do not have exclusive control over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of the project. As a result, the co-venturer might have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals, take action contrary to our interests or otherwise impede our objectives. The co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our ongoing efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. The costs of compliance with laws and changes in laws may harm our operating results. Costs associated with complying with laws and changes in laws may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We have incurred increases in expenses as a result of regulatory changes and the costs of compliance at the corporate level associated with maintaining our status as a public company. These expenses are generally not passed through to our tenants under our leases. As a result, these increased expenses may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt and make distributions to our stockholders. 13 In addition, our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and state and local fire and life safety requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the imposition of fines by regulatory agencies and governmental authorities or awards of damages to private litigants. In addition, these requirements are subject to change and new requirements could be imposed that would require significant unanticipated expenditures by us. Any of these events could adversely affect our cash flow and distribution to stockholders. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose invested capital and anticipated profits. Catastrophic losses, such as losses due to wars, terrorist attacks, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, generally are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. If one of these events occurred to, or caused the destruction of, one or more of our properties, we could lose both our invested capital and anticipated profits from that property. Lack of liquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict how long we would need to find a willing purchaser and complete the sale of a property. In addition, in recent years, some national anchor tenants have purchased their own parcels within our centers, which could reduce the value of our centers. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current security holders. The interest of our existing security holders could be diluted if additional equity securities are issued to finance future acquisition and other working capital needs as an alternative to incurring additional indebtedness. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including common and preferred equity. Our largest stockholder owns approximately 41% of our common stock, exercises significant control of our company and may delay, defer or prevent us from taking actions that would be beneficial to our other stockholders. Our largest stockholder, Net Realty Holding Trust, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the New England Teamsters and Trucking Industry Pension Fund (“NETT”), owns approximately 41% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and has the right to nominate four of our directors. Accordingly, Net Realty Holding Trust is able to exercise significant control over the outcome of substantially all matters required to be submitted to our stockholders for approval, including decisions relating to the election of our board of directors, and the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies. In addition, Net Realty Holding Trust is able to exercise significant control over the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of our company under Maryland law. Net Realty Holding Trust’s ownership interest in our company may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of our company, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 14 Provisions of the company’s charter and bylaws could inhibit changes in control of the company, and could prevent stockholders from obtaining a premium price for our common stock. Our organizational documents contain provisions which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company or the removal of existing management and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their shares of common stock over the then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include staggered terms for our directors, advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and the absence of cumulative voting rights. In addition, our organizational documents permit our board of directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, having those preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our board. Thus, our board could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. Our board of directors has adopted the limitations available in Maryland law on changes in control that could prevent transactions in the best interests of stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law applicable to us prohibit “business combinations,” including certain issuances of equity securities, with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of outstanding shares, or with an affiliate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares (a so-called “interested stockholder”), or with an affiliate of an interested stockholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder. After the five-year period, a business combination with an interested stockholder must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes unless, among other conditions, our common stockholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares of common stock. Our share ownership limit may discourage a takeover of the company and depress our stock price. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year. To make sure that we will not fail to qualify as a REIT under this test, subject to some exceptions, our articles prohibit any stockholder from owning actually or constructively more than 9.8% of the value or number of outstanding shares of our capital stock. Our board of directors may exempt a person from the 9.8% ownership limit if the board determines, in its sole discretion, that exceeding the 9.8% ownership limit as to any proposed transferee would not jeopardize our qualification as a REIT. This restriction may: discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in management or control that might involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; or compel a stockholder who had acquired more than 9.8% of our stock to dispose of the additional shares and, as a result, to forfeit the benefits of owning the additional shares. If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, our distributions will not be deductible by us, and our income will be subject to taxation, reducing our earnings available for distribution. We intend to remain qualified as a REIT under the Code, which will afford us significant tax advantages. The requirements for this qualification, however, are complex. If we fail to meet these requirements, our distributions will not be deductible by us and we will have to pay a corporate level tax on our income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions. In addition, such a tax liability might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps, which could negatively affect our operating results. Moreover, if our REIT status is terminated because of our failure 15 to meet a technical REIT requirement or if we voluntarily revoke our election, we would generally be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which REIT status is lost. Even REITs are subject to federal and state income taxes. Even if we maintain our status as a REIT, we may become subject to federal income taxes and related state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. A “prohibited transaction” is, in general, the sale or other disposition of inventory or property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on that income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of that tax liability. We are increasingly subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of our operating partnerships or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. We may not be able to continue to satisfy the REIT requirements, or it may not be in our best interests to continue to do so. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None 