Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to Our Business We do not expect to achieve profitability in the near term, especially as we expand and integrate our direct sales force, conduct clinical studies, and acquire and develop new product offerings, businesses, or technologies. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $12.9 million. We reported a net loss for the year ended on December 31, 2007, and we expect losses to continue through 2008. We intend to continue to incur substantial operating expenses as we make substantial expenditures to expand and integrate our direct sales force, conduct clinical studies, and acquire and develop new product offerings, businesses, or technologies. As a result, we do not expect to be profitable in the near term, and we will need to generate significant net sales in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will be influenced by many factors, including: • the level and timing of future sales and expenditures; • market acceptance of our new products; • the productivity of our direct sales force and distributors; • the cost of our clinical studies; • our ability to successfully acquire and develop competitive products; • our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, products, or technologies; • the impact on our business of competing products, technologies, and procedures; • our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for our products in new markets; • market and regulatory developments; and • the cost of intellectual property challenges, if any. We cannot assure you that we will achieve significant net sales or achieve and maintain profitability. In order to address our capital needs, we may elect to raise funds through public or private sales of equity or from borrowings or from strategic partners. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to our stockholders; debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business; and strategic partnerships, if available, may result in royalties or other terms that reduce our economic potential from products under development. Our results of operations are substantially dependent on businesses and assets that we acquired from third parties, and if we experience difficulties in completing the integration of these acquisitions into our business, or if we do not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, then our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Since 1998 we have completed ten acquisitions. Our operating results are largely dependent on these acquired product lines, and this dependence exposes us to risks and uncertainties. For example, following our acquisition of Biomateriali S.r.l. in December 2007, we were informed by Sorin Biomedica SpA, that Sorin would be reducing its purchases under an existing private label manufacturing program with Biomateriali. We estimate that this change in purchase volume will result in a $550,000 reduction, 23 Table of Contents approximately, in annual net sales of Biomateriali compared to annual net sales for the year preceding the acquisition. We can provide no assurance that similar changes in purchasing volume will not occur in the future in regard to Sorin or any other private label customer of, or distributor for, a company that we acquire. In March 2008, we provided notice of an indemnity claim under the Biomateriali purchase agreement to the sellers of Biomateriali, contending that the sellers breached certain representations and warranties in the purchase agreement by failing to adequately disclose material information regarding the Sorin customer relationship. We have demanded the payment of damages of approximately $0.5 million (denominated in Euros) and have ceased making certain post-closing payments to the sellers pending resolution of this indemnity claim. There are also a number of contingent liabilities that we may face relating to the Biomateriali acquisition. For example, if our distribution agreement with Edwards Lifesciences AG is terminated or expires, we may be obligated to make payments to the sellers of approximately $1.1 million to $2.2 million. Further, upon termination of the distribution agreement we are obligated to either buy back non-expired inventory from Edwards at the original sales price for that inventory or direct the sale of that inventory to third parties. Currently, we have no specific plan to terminate this agreement; however, we may elect to terminate or modify the agreement prior to its expiration, which could result in a payment to the sellers of less than the full $2.2 million and possibly the repurchase of inventory. Further, if the distribution agreement is terminated by Biomateriali due to a change in control of Biomateriali, we are required to pay a cancellation fee to the distributor equal to the product orders for the twelve months immediately preceding the date on which the distributor is notified of the termination. We also may experience other difficulties related to our acquisitions. For example, in connection with our acquisition of our EndoFit and UniFit Stent Graft product lines, we acquired an ongoing clinical study related to the UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft. See “Business—Clinical Studies.” Our experience in conducting clinical studies is limited and we have experienced and may further experience difficulties or delays in transitioning this study or future studies. Any difficulties or delays we experience in connection with this clinical study could negatively impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval to market the UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft in certain markets. In addition, the products that we have acquired may need to be improved in order to gain broader market acceptance or may not compete effectively with existing products. We have limited experience with certain technologies underlying the acquired products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful developing the desired product improvements in a timely manner, if at all. In April 2003, we acquired the Expedial Vascular Access Graft product line from Credent Limited, a UK company. In May 2004, we commenced a clinical study in the United States to collect data to submit to the FDA in support of 510(k) clearance for this device. In July 2006, we received preliminary data from the clinical study, suggesting that the device might not compare favorably to ePTFE grafts. As a result of our review of the clinical study results and less-than-planned sales of the Expedial product in Europe, we decided to cease the production and sale of this device. In October 2006, we sold certain manufacturing equipment, inventory, and intellectual property related to our Expedial Vascular Access Graft product line to CardioTech International, Inc. for total consideration of $350,000 plus a five-percent royalty on CardioTech’s net sales of its CardioPass brand coronary artery bypass graft for a period of five years following the first commercial sale of a CardioPass graft. Clinical trials on the CardioPass graft have only recently been initiated and there can be no assurance that it will ever be commercialized. Any of these difficulties could negatively impact our ability to realize the intended and anticipated benefits that we currently expect from our acquisitions and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to expand our product offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations could suffer. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors unless we can keep pace with existing or new products and technologies in the vascular device market. Our success in developing and commercializing new products and new versions of our existing products is affected by our ability to: • identify in a timely manner new market trends and customer needs; • keep pace with technological changes and industry standards; • obtain regulatory clearance or approval of new products and technologies; • successfully develop cost-effective manufacturing processes for such products; • commercially introduce such products and technologies; and • achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to expand our product offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations could suffer. Our results of operations could be negatively affected if we are unable to complete and integrate suitable acquisitions. In order to expand our product offerings, we have acquired nine businesses and an uncommercialized patent portfolio since 1998, and a key part of our strategy is to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies in the future. Our growth strategy depends in part upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete, and integrate suitable acquisitions and develop products from uncommercialized intellectual property that we acquire. If we are unable to complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms, our growth objectives could be negatively affected. Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel, and products into our existing business; • difficulties in integrating manufacturing operations into our existing business or successfully replicating manufacturing processes at new manufacturing facilities; • difficulties or delays in transitioning clinical studies or unfavorable results from such clinical studies; • difficulties or delays in commercializing intellectual property that we acquire; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • challenges resulting from limited or no prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions; • difficulties in acquiring the right to and protecting intellectual property; or • difficulties if the acquired company is remote or inconvenient to our Burlington, Massachusetts, headquarters. For any of these reasons or as a result of other factors we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. If we fail to convert additional countries from distributor sales to direct sales, or encounter difficulties in effecting such conversions, our results of operations could suffer. We intend to convert select countries from distributor sales to direct sales, which could result in disruptions in our sales. This transition may also have an adverse effect on our cash flow from operations because distributors, unlike direct sales personnel, pay us for inventory that they stock for later sale. In addition, switching to a direct 25 Table of Contents sales force may subject us to longer customer collection times and larger bad debt expense, since we would be required to collect customer payments directly rather than through a distributor. Also, our distribution agreements are typically exclusive with terms of up to five years. These agreements may temporarily constrain our ability to convert certain countries from a distributor to a direct sales model. Further, even where the payment of compensation is not required by contract or local law, it may be prudent to make such a payment in order to assure a successful market transition. For example, in October 2007 we entered into a letter agreement with Serom Medical Technologies S.r.l. that ended Serom’s distribution of our products in Italy as of January 25, 2008. Among the payments due to Serom under this letter agreement are consulting and transition services fees and a fee for termination of Serom’s distribution rights under a contract with the prior owner of the Vascular Architects business. None of these payments were required under an existing contract or Italian law. We estimate that these additional costs for termination of the distribution relationship with Serom to be approximately $240,000. These amounts were paid in part because the absence of cooperation by a distributor may result in the sudden erosion of our customer base, which could materially harm our ability to sell our product in that country. If we elect to cooperate with a distributor, that distributor may require us to repurchase inventory that we had previously sold to that distributor, in which event we may need to make a corresponding negative adjustment to net sales. Following termination of a distribution relationship, we may encounter difficulties in transitioning to a direct-sales model in the country in question. It may take us longer than expected to find sufficient qualified sales personnel to establish an effective sales force, which could negatively impact projected sales. If a distributor sold our products through a network of sales agents, rather than exclusively through its own personnel, we may not be able to establish relationships with all members of that network, temporarily limiting our access to the existing market. Similarly, failure to maintain or quickly re-establish a distributor’s close relationships with the physicians who use our products could cause a drop in sales. On the logistical side, if a distributor entered into an agreement with a customer relating to sales of our products or successfully completed a customer’s internal approval process, it may be difficult or impossible to assign the distributor’s rights under such agreements or approvals, and sales to that customer may be delayed until a new agreement is entered or a new approval is obtained. The transition to a direct sales model may also require us to incur additional expenses and meet regulatory requirements that were previously the responsibility solely of the distributor. As a result of the above risks, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in transitioning to a direct sales model in the countries that we select, and difficulties that we encounter in this transition could negatively affect our business. Existing or future acquisitions of new products or businesses could negatively affect our results of operations if we do not discover previously undisclosed liabilities. In a future acquisition we could discover deficiencies withheld from us due to fraud or otherwise not uncovered in our due diligence prior to the acquisition, including deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, and regulatory compliance, as well as undisclosed and product liabilities, any of which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any such undisclosed liabilities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our devices have been recently introduced into the market and may not achieve market acceptance, which could adversely affect our business. Some of our devices have been recently introduced into the market, and we cannot assure you that they will achieve market acceptance. The same is true of new devices that we may acquire or internally develop in the future. The marketing of our products requires a significant amount of time and expense in order to identify and develop relationships with the physicians who may use our products, invest in training and education with these physicians, and employ a sales force that is large enough to interact with the targeted physicians, with no assurance of success. In some cases, our devices may face competition from devices marketed by our competitors, and our customers may not prefer our device. In other cases, our devices may be used in new procedures and techniques, and if physicians do not adopt these procedures and techniques, demand for these devices would fail to develop. For example, in 2004 we launched our InvisiGrip Vein Stripper, which has not 26 Table of Contents achieved widespread market adoption because of competing products and techniques. If our products do not gain market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage the anticipated growth of our business, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The growth that we have experienced, and may experience in the future, will continue to provide challenges to our organization. For example, since 1998 we have completed ten acquisitions, and we expect to pursue additional acquisitions in the future. As our operations expand, both in terms of scope and geographic coverage, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various partners, suppliers, and other organizations. We also will need to manage the corresponding growth of our manufacturing operations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and reporting systems and procedures, and may in the future require us to transition to new enterprise management software. Such growth could place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, and we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, our anticipated growth may be impaired and our financial results could suffer. We depend on single- and limited-source suppliers for some of the components to our products, as well as for acquired products that have not been transitioned to in-house manufacture, and if any of those suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply them on acceptable terms, it could limit our ability to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis or at all. We rely on single- and limited-source suppliers for some of our important product components, as well as for products we have acquired that are not manufactured in-house. For example, we obtain from a third-party supplier all of the nitinol stents used in our EndoFit Thoracic Stent Graft and UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft. Similarly, the EndoRE remote endarterectomy product line we added as a result of the Vascular Architects acquisition is manufactured for us by third-party suppliers. There are relatively few, or in some cases no, alternative, validated sources of supply for these components and products. We do not have supply agreements with most of these suppliers, and instead place orders on an as-needed basis. Most of these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these components or products at any time. We do not carry a significant inventory of these components and products. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers, if required, may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any supply interruption from our vendors or failure to obtain additional vendors for any of the components used to manufacture our products would limit our ability to manufacture our products, may result in production delays and increased costs, and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. If we are unable to identify alternate sources of supply for the components, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increase design and manufacturing costs, and increase prices for our products. We cannot assure you that any such modified products would be as effective as the predecessor products, or that such modified products would gain market acceptance. This could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption in our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our principal worldwide executive, distribution, and manufacturing operations are located at a 27,098 square foot leased facility and a nearby 7,477 square foot leased facility located in Burlington, Massachusetts. We also manufacture our Albograft Vascular Graft product line in a 16,146 square foot leased facility in Brindisi, Italy. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace in the event of a natural or man-made disaster. In such event, we could not shift production to alternate manufacturing facilities, and we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential 27 Table of Contents losses, including potential damage to our reputation, and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our growth may outpace our manufacturing capacity, in which event we would need to locate, obtain, and build-out additional space. New or alternative facilities may not be available to us on acceptable terms. Even if we are able to identify such new or alternative facilities, we may incur additional costs and we may experience a disruption in the supply of our products until those facilities are available. Our leases for our Burlington, Massachusetts, manufacturing facilities expire in 2009, and we may not be able to renew these leases on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory to meet the demands of our customers, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our senior management team and other key scientific, sales, and technical personnel, and if we are unable to retain them or recruit additional qualified personnel we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the continued services of our senior management team and other key scientific, sales, and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. Our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Each of our key employees may terminate his or her employment with us at any time. The loss of any of our senior management team or key employees could harm our business. We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel on acceptable terms. We could face significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing, and retaining engineering and sales employees. Any loss or interruption of the services of our other key personnel could also significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives, because we cannot assure you that we would be able to find an appropriate replacement should the need arise. We maintain life insurance payable to us on our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George W. LeMaitre, but not on our other key personnel. If we do not maintain our relationships with our physician customers, our growth may be limited and our business could be harmed. Physicians typically influence the medical device purchasing decisions of the hospitals and other healthcare institutions in which they practice. Consequently, our relationships with our physician customers are critical to our continued growth. We believe that these relationships are based on our long-standing reputation and presence in the market for peripheral vascular devices, the quality of our product offerings and clinical outcomes, our marketing efforts and our presence at medical society meetings. Any actual or perceived diminution in our reputation or the quality of our products or our failure or inability to maintain these other efforts could damage our current relationships, or prevent us from forming new relationships, with physicians and cause our growth to be limited and our business to be harmed. Our primary focus on the needs of vascular surgeons could harm our business if interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists perform a greater percentage of new procedures that replace those procedures traditionally performed by vascular surgeons, or if vascular surgeons increasingly specialize in procedures for which we do not sell devices. The treatment of peripheral vascular disease is increasingly shifting from open vascular surgery to minimally invasive endovascular procedures. We market and sell our products primarily to vascular surgeons, who in addition to performing traditional open surgical procedures, in growing numbers also perform minimally invasive, image-guided interventional procedures for peripheral vascular disease. However, vascular surgeons may not adopt these procedures in the numbers we expect and instead these procedures may be largely performed by interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists. Many of our competitors have focused their sales efforts on these interventionalists. If interventional radiologists and interventional cardiologists perform a greater percentage of these new procedures than we expect, our net sales may decline and our business may be affected. 28 Table of Contents Moreover, demographic trends and other market factors, such as reimbursement rates, are driving vascular surgeons in the United States and potentially in other markets to increasingly specialize in certain kinds of procedures, such as endovascular therapies, the creation and maintenance of dialysis access sites, and the treatment of varicose veins. Sometimes these physicians will discontinue performing other vascular procedures. If this trend continues, it could lead to the fragmentation of our customer base, which would reduce cross-selling opportunities and the efficiency of each sales call by our sales representatives, which in turn would negatively impact our business. We face competition from other companies, technologies, and alternative medical procedures, all of which could adversely impact our business, net sales, and results of operations. Consolidation in the medical technology industry could exacerbate these risks. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, subject to change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other activities of industry participants. Although no one company competes against us in all of our product lines, a number of manufacturers of peripheral vascular devices have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs, and larger facilities than ours; have established reputations with our target customers; and have developed worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. Our competitors could elect to devote additional resources to the markets in which we currently enjoy less competition. Also, although we currently have leading market positions in the markets for some of our products, this is not true for the markets for all of our products, in particular our endovascular and dialysis access products. Recent industry consolidation could make the competitive environment more difficult for smaller companies like ours. Because of the size of the vascular disease market opportunity, competitors and potential competitors have dedicated, and we believe will continue to dedicate, significant resources to aggressively promote their products. Also, new product developments that could compete with us more effectively are likely because the vascular disease market is characterized by extensive research efforts and technological progress. Competitors may develop technologies and products that are safer, more effective, easier to use, less expensive, or more readily accepted than ours. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may also be able to achieve more efficient manufacturing and distribution operations than we can and may offer lower prices than we could offer profitably. In addition, many of our products face competition from alternative procedures that utilize a different kind of medical device that we do not currently sell. Any of these competitive factors could adversely impact our business, net sales, and results of operations. If there is a disruption in the supply of products from Endologix, Inc. that we distribute, or if our relationship with Endologix is impaired, our net sales and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We have entered into a three-year agreement with Endologix, Inc., to distribute the Powerlink System in several European countries, including Germany, France, and the United Kingdom. Our success in marketing the Powerlink System is dependent on our sales personnel being proficient in the product line, building physician relationships, and executing sales orders. If we are unable to market the Powerlink System successfully, or if our agreement with Endologix is terminated, our net sales and results of operations could suffer. If we do not meet our performance requirements under the agreement, the agreement may be terminated by Endologix. In addition, even if we market the Powerlink System successfully, if Endologix is unable to produce enough of its products to meet our demands, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands, and our net sales and results of operations may suffer. This distribution relationship also exposes us to the risk that the distribution of the Powerlink System disproportionately absorbs company resources that would otherwise be dedicated to other projects and the risk that the European market does not rapidly adopt the Powerlink System, in either of which cases our net sales and results of operations may suffer. Our lack of customer purchase contracts makes it difficult to predict sales and plan manufacturing requirements, which could lead to lower net sales, higher expenses, and reduced margins. We generally do not have long-term purchase contracts with our hospital customers, who typically order products on an as-needed basis. As a result, it is difficult to accurately forecast our component and product 29 Table of Contents requirements. Our manufacturing and operating expenses are largely based on anticipated sales volume, and a significant portion of these expenses is and will continue to be fixed. We must plan production and order product components and third-party manufactured products several months in advance of customer orders. In addition, lead times for product components and third-party manufactured products that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier and demand for each component at any given time. These factors expose us to a number of risks, such as the following: • if we overestimate our requirements, or experience shortages, we may be obligated to carry more inventory than we need; • if we underestimate our requirements, we may have an insufficient product component inventory, which could disrupt manufacturing of our products and cause delays in shipments and net sales; and • if we experience shortages of product components from time to time, which could delay the manufacturing and shipping of our products. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could lead to lower net sales, higher expenses, and reduced margins. Our business strategy relies on assumptions about the market for our products, which, if incorrect, could adversely affect our business prospects and profitability. We are focused on the market for devices used to treat peripheral vascular disease. We believe that demographic trends point towards an increase in the need for our products. However, the projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect or do not materialize or if drug therapies gain more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative treatment, which in each case could adversely affect our business prospects and profitability. The use, misuse, or off-label use of our products may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business. Although we offer training for physicians in the use of some of our products, we do not require that physicians be trained in the use of our products. Not requiring training specific to the use of our devices may expose us to greater risk of product liability if injuries occur during a procedure involving our products. In addition, if demand for our products continues to grow, less skilled surgeons will likely use the devices, potentially leading to an increased incidence of patient injury and an increased risk of product liability. The off-label use of our products may result in an increased risk of serious injuries or death. The potential for off-label use is greater in the case of a product—such as our aSpire Covered Stent—that is approved for a particular use in one country and approved for a different use in another. As is the case with other medical device companies, product liability claims could be brought against us. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured, or labeled, contain defective components, or are misused, or if our products are found to have caused or contributed to injuries or death, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, and result in sizable damage awards against us. Claims of this nature may also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market and subject us to product recalls. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any claim made against us. Further, we may not be able to maintain the same level of coverage, and we may not be able to obtain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing coverage in the future. Additionally, if any such product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or is in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could be harmed. 30 Table of Contents The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in markets outside of the United States and Canada. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 39% of our net sales were derived from our operations outside of the United States and Canada. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations, including export licensing requirements, duties and tariffs, and other trade restrictions; • the risk of non-compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by our sales representatives or our distributors; • the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity; • a shortage of high-quality sales personnel and distributors; • loss of any key personnel who possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities, which could result in significant fines, penalties, and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; • exposure to different legal and political standards; and • political, economic, and/or social instability. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. Any operations that we conduct in China will expose us to the risk of adverse changes in political, legal, and economic policies of the Chinese government, which changes could reduce the demand for our products in China and materially and adversely affect our competitive position in China. Although we currently do not market any of our products in China, we have recently applied to obtain approval from the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration to market our EndoFit Thoracic Stent Graft in China. If and when this product is approved for sale in China, we expect to initially market our device using one or more distributors. Conducting business in China, if we seek to enter that market, would expose us to a variety of risks and uncertainties that are unique to China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • level of government involvement; 31 Table of Contents • economic structure; • allocation of resources; • level of development; • inflation rates; • growth rate; and • control of foreign exchange. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by hospitals, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. In addition, the Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported sales and earnings. Because the majority of our sales outside of the United States are denominated in local currencies, our reported sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We cannot predict the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our sales and earnings. At present, we manufacture very few of our products outside the United States and we do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. We rely on our independent distributors to market and sell our products in select markets outside of the United States and Canada. Sales of our products through independent distributors represented 10% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our success in these markets depends largely upon marketing arrangements with distributors, in particular their sales and service expertise and relationships with their respective customers in the marketplace. Although we intend to replace some of these distributors with a direct sales force, this will take time and we may keep a distribution model in some markets. We do not control our distributors and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans. Many of our distributors initially obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approval for sale of our products in their respective countries. We do not have long-term contracts with many of our distributors, and our distributors may terminate their relationships with us on little or no notice. In addition, some of our distributors are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us, may sell products that compete with ours or devote more efforts to selling other products, and may stop selling our products at any time. If we lose any of our significant distributors, if we fail to recruit and retain additional skilled distributors in these locations, or if our distributors devote more effort to selling products other than ours, our operations could be adversely affected. We have experienced turnover with some of our distributors in the past that has adversely affected our short-term financial results while we transitioned to new distributors. Similar occurrences could happen in the future. 32 Table of Contents We may not achieve positive cash flow from operations and, as a result, we may require additional capital. Failure to attract additional capital on acceptable terms could impair our growth. We may require additional capital to execute our strategies and further expand our business. If our cash reserves, together with cash available under our credit facility and cash generated internally, are insufficient to fund our operations or our capital requirements, we will require additional debt or equity financing. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt, this debt will be senior to our outstanding shares of capital stock upon our liquidation. Financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms satisfactory to us and could result in significant stockholder dilution. In addition, covenants in debt financing arrangements may restrict our ability to operate our business or obtain additional debt financing. These covenants may also require us to attain certain levels of financial performance and we may not be able to do so; any such failure may result in the acceleration of such debt and the foreclosure by our creditors on the collateral we used to secure the debt. We may also elect to raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing, marketing, or similar arrangements, and these arrangements may require us to relinquish valuable rights to our products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses that are not favorable to us. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to curtail our growth strategy by reducing or delaying capital expenditures and acquisitions, delaying or postponing our product development efforts (including clinical studies), selling assets, restructuring our operations, or refinancing our indebtedness. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution, and other functions and to maintain our research and development and clinical data. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting, financial, human resources, and sales and marketing functions; manage order entry, order fulfillment, and inventory replenishment processes; and maintain our research and development and clinical data. We do not maintain redundant management information systems. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and product development and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory, and product shortages, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood, and other natural disasters; • terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers; and • power loss or the failure of our network infrastructure, telecommunications network, or the internet. Any interruption in the use of our management information systems could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time we may become subject to tax audits or similar proceedings, and as a result we may owe additional taxes, interest, and penalties in amounts that may be material. We are subject to income taxes in many countries, jurisdictions, and provinces, including the United States. In determining our global provision for income taxes, we are required to exercise judgment. Regularly, we make estimates where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. While we believe our estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of any tax audit or tax-related litigation will not be materially different from that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In February 2006 we received an audit notification from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) requesting materials relating to our 2004 and 2005 federal tax return. In April 2007 we paid the IRS $0.4 million resulting from adjustments to our 2004 and 2005 tax returns, the provision for which have been previously made as of 33 Table of Contents December 31, 2006. In July 2007 we received an audit notification from the German tax authorities of an audit relating to our 2004, 2005, and 2006 German tax filings. The German federal tax authority proposed and we agreed to a final adjustment to the previously reported returns resulting in an assessment of $0.3 million in 2007, the provision for which had previously been made as of December 31, 2006. In addition, we are subject to sales, use, and similar taxes in many countries, jurisdictions, and provinces, including those states in the United States where we maintain a physical presence or have a substantial nexus. These taxing regimes are complex. For example, in the United States, each state and local taxing authority has its own interpretation of what constitutes a sufficient physical presence or nexus to require the collection and remittance of these taxes. Similarly, each state and local taxing authority has its own rules regarding the applicability of sales tax by customer or product type. We employ a variety of strategies from time to time with respect to our international operations. There can be no assurance that these strategies will be accepted by the relevant taxing authorities. For example, we recently reorganized the corporate form of our Japanese subsidiary, resulting in a U.S. tax deduction. There can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with our position. If we are unsuccessful in this matter, our net operating loss carryforward may be reduced and our future results negatively impacted. As of December 31, 2007, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was approximately $28,000 in our financial statements in connection with uncertain tax positions. The assessment of additional taxes, interest, and penalties as a result of audits, litigation, or otherwise, could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition. Ownership of our common stock by our vascular surgeon customers, including members of our scientific advisory board, could negatively impact our reputation and as a result, our business and results of operations could suffer. The stockholders who own our common stock include members of our scientific advisory board and other vascular surgeons who may use our devices and may recommend our devices for purchase by the hospitals at which they perform surgical procedures. The fact that such professionals are also our stockholders could attract unfavorable attention of the public, regulatory authorities, and the media, especially if the surgeons have not disclosed their relationships with us. Such perceptions could harm our reputation and could cause our business and results of operations to suffer. If we fail to continue to expand our sales force, we could lose market share to our competitors and our results of operations could suffer. One of our long-term business strategies is to continue to expand our direct sales force, particularly in markets where we believe we are currently underrepresented. For example, there are several large cities in the United States where we do not have any direct sales coverage. Outside the United States we rely on a small direct sales force in certain markets while we sell our products through independent sales distributors in other markets. Accordingly, there are a number of large markets where we believe we could expand direct sales coverage, such as Japan, France, and Italy. We may not be able to find a sufficient number of qualified medical device sales personnel to adequately address these markets in a cost-effective manner. We compete for experienced medical device sales personnel with our competitors, many of which are larger and have greater resources than we do and some of which may offer more attractive economic incentives than we do. Even if we are able to attract sales personnel, we may not be able to effectively train and retain such personnel. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in expanding our sales force, and difficulties that we encounter could negatively affect our business. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment Our business is subject to complex, costly, and burdensome regulations. We could be subject to significant penalties if we fail to comply. The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. U.S. and foreign regulations applicable to medical devices are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, the testing, marketing, and premarket clearance or approval of new medical devices, in addition to regulating manufacturing practices, reporting, promotion and advertising, importing and exporting, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in governmental agencies or a court taking action, including any of the following: • issuing public warning letters to us; • imposing fines and penalties on us; • issuing an injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; • bringing civil or criminal charges against us; • delaying the introduction of our new products into the market; • ordering a recall of, or detaining or seizing, our products; or • withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. If any or all of the foregoing were to occur, our business, results of operations, and reputation could suffer. If we are not successful in obtaining and maintaining clearances and approvals from governmental agencies, we will not be able to sell our products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered. In order to market some of our products, notably our EndoFit and UniFit product lines, we will need to obtain approval of premarket applications from the FDA, which will require data from clinical trials. We have limited experience with these matters, in particular with conducting clinical trials. Our products require premarket clearance or approval in the United States and the CE Mark or other approvals in foreign countries where they are sold. Each medical device that we wish to market in the United States generally must receive either 510(k) clearance, unless it is exempt, or approval of a premarket application, or PMA, from the FDA before the product can be marketed or sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance procedure, also known as “premarket notification,” is the process used for our currently marketed products in the United States. This process usually takes from three to twelve months from the date the FDA receives the application, but may take significantly longer. Although 510(k) clearances have been obtained for all of our current products that require clearances, these clearances may be revoked by the FDA if safety or effectiveness problems develop with the devices. Our new products or significantly modified marketed products could be denied 510(k) clearance and required to undergo the more burdensome PMA approval process if they are not found to be substantially equivalent. The PMA approval process is much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain than the premarket notification process. It generally takes from six months to three years from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with, the FDA, and may take even longer. Achieving premarket approval typically requires extensive clinical trials and may require the filing of numerous amendments with the FDA over time. We do not have significant experience in obtaining PMA approval for our products. Our EndoFit and UniFit products must receive PMA approval before being commercially distributed in the United States. To successfully obtain PMA approval of our EndoFit and UniFit devices and other devices that we 35 Table of Contents may develop or acquire that are not approved for sale in the United States, such as the Albograft Vascular Graft, we will need to develop greater regulatory and clinical study expertise than we currently possess. This task will require us to devote significant resources to the improvement of our regulatory compliance and clinical study processes, including filling clinical and regulatory positions with personnel who have the requisite abilities and/or experience. We may not be able to find such personnel or be able to devote the necessary resources. In addition, our inexperience in these areas may cause significant delays in or otherwise harm our ability to successfully complete the complex undertaking of obtaining regulatory approval for these devices. We cannot assure you that we will ever obtain PMA approval for our EndoFit or UniFit devices or any other devices that we attempt to bring to market in the United States. Our ability to market our products outside the United States is also subject to regulatory approval, including our ability to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products in the clinical setting. The products for which we are currently conducting studies are already approved for sale outside of the United States. While our studies are ongoing, unfavorable data may arise in connection with usage of our products outside the United States, which could adversely impact approval of our products in the United States. Conversely, unfavorable data from clinical studies in the United States may adversely impact sales of our products outside the United States. For example, in July 2006, we received unfavorable preliminary data from our United States clinical study of our Expedial Vascular Access Graft. The clinical study was designed to establish substantial equivalence to grafts manufactured using ePTFE for effectiveness in maintaining blood flow through the graft. The preliminary data from the clinical study suggested that the device did not compare favorably to ePTFE grafts in this regard. As a result of our review of the clinical study results and less than planned Expedial sales in Europe, we decided to forego further enrollment in the clinical study and cease worldwide production and sale of this device. Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, the approval or clearance could limit the uses or the claims for which the product may be labeled and promoted, which may limit the market for our products. If we do not obtain and maintain foreign regulatory or FDA approval with respect to our products, as applicable, we will not be able to sell our products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered. Modifications to our marketed devices may require new regulatory clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires the submission of another 510(k) or PMA application to address the change. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or PMA. Although in the first instance we may determine that a change does not rise to a level of significance that would require us to make a submission, the FDA may review and disagree with our determination and can require us to submit a 510(k) or a PMA for a significant technological change or major change or modification in intended use. If the FDA requires us to submit a 510(k) or a PMA for any modification to a previously cleared device, we may be required to cease marketing the device, recall it, and not resume marketing until we obtain clearance or approval from the FDA for the modified version of the device. Delays in our receipt of regulatory clearance or approval will cause delays in our ability to sell our products, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, and prospects. Also, we may be subject to regulatory fines, penalties, and/or other sanctions authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Our UniFit products are in, and our EndoFit products have recently completed, clinical studies. If our ongoing clinical study is unsuccessful, if the FDA or other regulatory agencies do not accept or approve the results of such studies, or if the FDA or other regulatory agencies find reason to interrupt or discontinue our ongoing study, these products may not come to market on a timely basis or at all, and our business prospects may suffer. We currently have an ongoing clinical study to support a possible PMA application for our UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft, and we recently completed a Chinese clinical study to support approval from the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration (the SFDA) of our EndoFit Thoracic Stent Graft for marketing in China. We 36 Table of Contents cannot assure you that the ongoing UniFit study will be successful or that the FDA or SFDA or other relevant regulatory agencies will accept the results of the applicable study and approve or clear the devices for sale. Further, we continue to evaluate the potential financial benefits and costs of our clinical studies and the products being evaluated in them. If we determine that the costs associated with attaining regulatory approval of a product exceed the potential financial benefits of that product, or if the projected development timeline is inconsistent with our investment horizon, we may choose to stop a clinical study and/or the development of a product. In May 2006, we submitted an investigational device exemption, or IDE, supplemental application to the FDA to begin a pivotal clinical trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft in the treatment of aorto, aorto-iliac, and/or iliac aneurysms. In May 2007, we received final approval from the FDA to commence the pivotal trial, which we refer to as the UNITE study, and as of December 31, 2007, we had enrolled seven patients in the trial. We plan to enroll 90 patients at up to 14 institutions. The primary effectiveness endpoint of the study is based on aneurysm exclusion as evaluated through one-year follow-up. If the institutions participating in any of our clinical studies or trials do not enroll a sufficient number of patients to provide the clinical data necessary to obtain regulatory approval of the device being evaluated, or do not enroll patients in a timely fashion, the approval or clearance of that device for sale may be prevented or delayed. In January 2008, the FDA audited the conduct of the feasibility study and pivotal clinical trial of our UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft. As a result of this audit, the FDA issued a formal notification, or Form FDA-483, listing nine observations. Specifically, the FDA observed that we had not adequately supervised participating sites, made all required reports to those sites and the FDA, or adequately maintained all records required by FDA regulations. While we have revised our clinical trial procedures to address the FDA’s findings and have submitted a response letter to the FDA detailing the steps being taken, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing these changes or that the FDA will agree that our implementation is adequate. If the FDA finds that we are not in substantial compliance with IDE requirements, the FDA may issue a public warning letter or take other enforcement action against us, and the conduct of our clinical trial could be interrupted or discontinued. If our UniFit clinical study is unsuccessful, if the FDA or other regulatory agencies do not accept or approve the results of our UniFit or EndoFit studies, or the FDA or other regulatory agencies find reason to interrupt or discontinue an ongoing study, these products will not come to market on a timely basis or at all, and our business prospects may suffer. Recent corruption scandals within the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration may delay or defeat our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for our products in China. Although we currently do not market any of our products in China, we recently conducted a clinical study to obtain approval from the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration (the SFDA) to market our EndoFit Thoracic Stent Graft in China. In July 2007, the former head of the SFDA was executed following his conviction by the Chinese government for accepting bribes. Other senior administration officials have been charged and convicted of similar crimes. We understand from our advisors that these scandals within the SFDA have resulted in a slower, less predictable and more uncertain product medical device approval process. Accordingly, we cannot assure that you that we will obtain SFDA approval for our EndoFit device or our other products in a timely manner or at all. If we do not obtain SFDA approval with respect to our products, we will not be able to sell our products and our future growth will be hampered. If we or some of our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and other applicable postmarket requirements, our manufacturing operations could be disrupted, our product sales and profitability could suffer, and we may become subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with any regulatory requirements, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions. 37 Table of Contents We and some of our suppliers must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage, and shipping of medical devices. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation through unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. If we or one of our suppliers fails a Quality System Regulation inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by us or one of our suppliers is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action against us, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. In March 2006, the FDA inspected our facilities in Burlington, Massachusetts. The inspection resulted in the issuance of a formal notification, or a Form FDA-483, listing three observations. Specifically, the FDA observed that we did not adequately document corrective and preventive actions taken by us to address quality problems, we did not identify all actions needed to prevent the recurrence of nonconforming product and other quality problems, and we had an incomplete procedure for implementing and recording actions taken to correct and prevent identified quality problems. While we have revised our procedures and conducted additional training to address the FDA’s findings, we cannot assure you that we have been successful in implementing these changes or that the FDA will agree that our implementation is adequate. If the FDA finds that we are not in substantial compliance with the Quality System Regulation, the FDA may issue a public warning letter or take other enforcement action against us, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. We are also subject to the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or off-label uses and to the medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or if our device malfunctions and a recurrence of the malfunction would likely result in a death or serious injury. We must also file reports with the FDA of some device corrections and removals, and we must adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. If we fail to comply with these or other FDA requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take significant enforcement actions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and our reputation. In addition, most other countries, such as Japan, require us to comply with manufacturing and quality assurance standards for medical devices that are similar to those in force in the United States before marketing and selling our products in those countries. If we fail to comply, we would lose our ability to market and sell our products in those foreign countries. Even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, our products may be subject to product recalls, which may harm our reputation and divert managerial and financial resources. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if the governmental entity finds that our products would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including labeling defects. For example, in 2005 we initiated three voluntary recalls. Two of these recalls related to packaging flaws that compromised the sterility of the products, and the third recall arose from a labeling error. In 2007, we initiated a voluntary recall relating to finished goods inventory that we had acquired in connection with our acquisition of the LeverEdge Contrast Injector in April 2007. The recall related to a packaging flaw that compromised the sterility of the product. Any future recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources. If we do not comply with foreign regulatory requirements to market our products outside the United States, our business will be harmed. Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. These requirements and the amount of time required for approval may differ from our experiences with the FDA in the United States. In some cases, we rely on our non-U.S. distributors to obtain 38 Table of Contents premarket approvals, complete product registrations, comply with clinical trial requirements, and complete those steps that are customarily taken in the applicable jurisdictions to comply with governmental and quasi-governmental regulation. In the future, we expect to continue to rely on distributors in this manner in those countries where we continue to market and sell our products through them. Failure to satisfy these foreign regulations would impact our ability to sell our products in these countries and could cause our business to suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain the required regulatory approvals in these countries. Our products are regulated in the European Union under the European Medical Devices Directive (93/42/EEC). In order to market our medical devices in the European Union, we are required to obtain CE mark certification, which denotes conformity to the essential requirements of the Medical Devices Directive. We have received CE mark certification to sell all of our products except the Pruitt F3 and Flexcel Carotid Shunts. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a CE mark for new products in the future or for modifications to our existing products or in the manufacturing of our products, and obtaining a CE mark may involve a significant amount of time and expense, stringent clinical and preclinical testing, or modification of our products and could result in limitations being placed on the use of our products in order to obtain approval. Maintaining a CE mark is contingent upon our continued compliance with applicable European medical device requirements, including limitations on advertising and promotion of medical devices and requirements governing the handling of adverse events. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining the CE mark for any of our current products. In particular, adverse event reporting requirements in the European Union mandate that we report incidents which led or could have led to death or serious deterioration in health. Under certain circumstances, we could be required to initiate a recall or removal of our product from the market in order to address product deficiencies or malfunctions. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources. Failure to receive or maintain approval would prohibit us from selling these products in member countries of the European Union, and would require significant delays in obtaining individual country approvals. If we do not receive or maintain these approvals, our business could be harmed. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by European regulatory authorities and Notified Bodies, and we must demonstrate compliance with the Medical Devices Directive. Any failure by us to comply with European requirements in this regard may entail our taking corrective action, such as modification of our policies and procedures. In addition, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations for some period of time until we can demonstrate that appropriate steps have been taken. There can be no assurance that we will be found in compliance with such standards in future audits. Our failure to comply may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (the MHLW) regulates medical devices through the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, which was reformed effective April 1, 2005. Implementation and enforcement of the reforms are evolving, and compliance guidance from the MHLW is still in development. The revisions to Japanese regulations have resulted in longer lead times for product development. Any such delay in product registrations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. While we do not control referrals of healthcare services, and we do not receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors, healthcare laws and regulations apply broadly and may apply to 39 Table of Contents our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and patient privacy regulation by the federal government and the states and international jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal healthcare programs Anti-Kickback Statute, which constrains, among other things, our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing and discounting policies, and relationships with healthcare providers by prohibiting persons from soliciting, receiving, or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing, recommending, furnishing, or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us, because we provide coding and billing advice to customers; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes regulatory and contractual requirements relating to the privacy, security, and transmission of individually identifiable health information; • state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts; • federal physician self-referral prohibitions, such as The Ethics in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the federal physician self-referral law or the Stark law, which under certain circumstances prohibit physicians from referring patients for services paid for by Medicare or Medicaid to any entity in which the physician or an immediate family member has an ownership, compensation, or other financial interest, unless a specific statutory or regulatory exception applies; and • international regulations similar in nature and scope to the above-referenced requirements, including the European Union directive on data privacy, which imposes restrictions on the collection, use, disclosure, and processing of personal data. While we believe that our present and past operations are and have been compliant in all material respects with the laws and regulations described above, there can be no assurance that we will not be found to be, or found to have been, in violation of any of such laws or regulations and as a result we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, or curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws or regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability. Our manufacturing operations and our research and development programs involve the use of hazardous substances and are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, and remediation of, and human exposure to, hazardous substances. Our research and development and manufacturing operations produce biological waste materials, such as human and 40 Table of Contents animal tissue, and waste solvents, such as isopropyl alcohol. Regulatory authorities permit these operations, and the resulting waste materials are disposed of in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive, and non-compliance could result in substantial liabilities, which could exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, our manufacturing operations may result in the release, discharge, emission, or disposal of hazardous substances that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, including costs for investigation and remediation. We cannot assure you that violations of these laws and regulations will not occur in the future or have not occurred in the past as a result of human error, accidents, equipment failure, or other causes. The expense associated with environmental regulation and remediation could harm our financial condition and operating results. Inadequate levels of reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payors for procedures using our products may cause our net sales to decline. Sales of our products depend in part on the reimbursement by governmental and private healthcare payors to our hospital and physician customers or their patients for the purchase and use of our products. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid, and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the cost of procedures. Any delays in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, payor coverage and reimbursement for our products or the services in which our products are used could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if the reimbursement policies of domestic or foreign governmental or private healthcare payors change, our customers would likely change their purchasing patterns or the frequency of their purchases of the affected products. Changes in healthcare systems in the United States or elsewhere could adversely affect the demand for our products, as well as the way we conduct business. Third-party payors have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, a number of healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These policies include: • controls on government-funded reimbursement for healthcare services and price controls on medical products and services providers; • limitations on coverage and reimbursement for new medical technologies and procedures; and • the introduction of managed care or prospective payment systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed reimbursement amount per person or per procedure. We are unable to predict whether federal, state, or local healthcare reform legislation or regulations, or private payor policies, affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any such legislation, regulations, or policies would have on our business. Any such legislation, regulations, or policies that affect the coverage and reimbursement of our current or future products, or the procedures utilizing our current or future products, could cause our net sales to decline. Outside of the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country. Many foreign markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments within a given period. These systems are subject to the same pressures to curb rising healthcare costs and control healthcare expenditures as those in the United States. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, sales of our products outside of the United States may decrease and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant non-U.S. sales. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or prevent use of our intellectual property by third parties, we could lose a significant competitive advantage and our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how, and trademark laws, as well as license agreements and contractual provisions, to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These measures may only afford limited protection and may not: • prevent our competitors from duplicating our products; • prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology; or • permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain in the future might also be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In addition, our pending patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not provide commercially meaningful protection, as competitors may be able to design around our patents to produce alternative, non-infringing designs. Should such challenges to our patents be successful, competitors might be able to market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to ours. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. We have a policy of requiring key employees and consultants and corporate partners with access to trade secrets or other confidential information to execute confidentiality agreements. Our confidentiality agreements also require our employees to assign to us all rights to any inventions made or conceived during their employment with us. We also generally require our consultants to assign to us any inventions made during the course of their engagement by us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer, or disclosure of confidential information or inventions. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products, or services and our competitors could commercialize similar technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs, and we may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights, and we cannot assure you that our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Prior to launching major new products in our key markets, we typically evaluate existing intellectual property rights. However, our competitors may also have filed for patent protection that is not as yet a matter of public knowledge or claim trademark rights that have not been revealed through our availability searches. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property; 42 Table of Contents • harm our reputation; • cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products, which may not be possible and could be costly and time consuming if it is possible to do so at all; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, which agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all; • divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business; or • result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. It is also possible that one of our competitors could claim that our manufacturing process violates an existing patent. If we were unsuccessful in defending such a claim, we may be forced to stop production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product’s continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. If our business is successful, the possibility may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us. In addition, we may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the United States Patent Office or opposition proceedings conducted in foreign patent offices challenging the priority of invention or the validity of our patents. For example, Boston Scientific Corporation initiated opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office to oppose our granted European patent number 1,202,682, or the 682 patent, related to an ePTFE intraluminal device such as certain of our EndoFit and UniFit stent grafts, and to oppose our granted European patent number 1,148,838, or the 838 patent, related to an ePTFE vascular prosthesis such as certain of our EndoFit and UniFit stent grafts. As a result of the opposition proceedings, the granted patent claims in the 682 patent were cancelled while the 838 patent survived with certain amendments that did not materially alter the coverage provided by that patent. Although the cancellation of the patent claims in the 682 patent does not affect our ability to manufacture, distribute, or sell any of our products, it could affect our right to exclude others from selling products similar to our EndoFit and UniFit stent grafts in Europe. We may become involved in lawsuits and administrative proceedings to protect, defend, or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation or interference or opposition proceedings against third parties in the United States or in foreign countries. The defense of intellectual property rights, including patent rights through lawsuits, interference, or opposition proceedings, and other legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and can divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Such costs increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation and despite protective orders entered by the court, confidential information may be inadvertently disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions, or study testimony. This disclosure could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. 43 Table of Contents If we fail to observe the terms of our agreements with third-party patent holders, we may lose the ability to manufacture, market, or sell some of our products. Certain aspects of our products are the subject of patents held by third parties. We manufacture, market, and sell these products pursuant to license agreements with these third parties. These arrangements require us to pay royalties, typically determined as a percentage of our net sales for the underlying product. If we fail to make these payments or otherwise fail to observe the terms of these agreements, we may lose our ability to sell these products. For example, we manufacture, market, and sell our EndoFit and UniFit stent grafts pursuant to a sublicense from Bard Peripheral Vascular, Inc., a subsidiary of C.R. Bard, Inc., to a U.S. patent covering aspects of ePTFE. Our arrangement with Bard may preclude us from assigning the sublicense to a third party, including in connection with the sale of more than 30% of our capital stock or all or substantially all of our assets, without the prior consent of Bard. The loss by us of our right to manufacture, market, and sell our EndoFit and UniFit products could adversely affect our business and results of operations, perhaps materially. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities that is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, a low volume of trading in our common stock, and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • our inability to raise additional capital; • public concern as to the safety or efficacy of our products; • changes in financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, and responses to such events; • sales of common stock by us or our directors, officers, or principal stockholders; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies, or our industry generally. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our business. 44 Table of Contents We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results, and in particular we project that we will not be profitable for 2008, which may cause our stock price to decline. We reported a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2007, and we expect to report a loss in 2008. These losses, together with fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations have resulted and will continue to result from numerous factors, including: • changes in the mix of products we sell; • changes in the demand for our products; • seasonality in the sales of our products; • increased product and price competition; • the loss of any distributor or any significant customer, especially in regard to any product that has a limited distributor or customer base; • effects of domestic and foreign economic conditions and exchange rates on our industry and/or customers; • changes in our ability to obtain products and product components that are manufactured for us by third parties, especially the loss of sole-source suppliers, as well as variations in prices of these products and product components; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products and product components; • the effect of a disaster at any of our manufacturing facilities; • delays in the development or commercial introduction of new versions of our products or components we use in our products; • failure to initiate, complete, or achieve favorable results from clinical studies of our products on a timely basis or at all; • delays in obtaining regulatory clearance for new versions of our products or failure to maintain such clearance for our existing products and manufacturing operations; • changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement for our products; • possible product liability lawsuits and product recalls; • loss of intellectual property protection or infringement on the intellectual property of others; • strategic actions by us, such as acquisitions of additional businesses, products, or technologies; • costs incurred in connection with the termination of contractual and other relationships, including distributorships; • material changes in headcount; and • the loss of key personnel. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not always meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. In addition, we anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we continue to expand our sales and marketing, manufacturing, and product development activities. We estimate 45 Table of Contents that our continued expansion efforts, higher expenses, and the fees associated with distributor terminations will offset the effect of increased revenues and will lead to a net loss in 2008, which may result in a decline in the market price for our common stock. Our directors, officers, and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of February 1, 2008, our directors, officers, and affiliated stockholders holding more than 5% of our common stock collectively control approximately 53.2% of our outstanding common stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, would be able to control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, might adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Future acquisitions that we make may be dilutive to our current stockholders. We intend to pursue the acquisition of complementary products, technologies, or businesses, and in connection with these acquisitions we may use substantial portions of our available cash or make dilutive issuances of securities. In addition, an acquisition could impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to recognize acquisition expenses or amortize, depreciate, or impair acquired assets. This debt would be senior to our outstanding shares of capital stock upon our liquidation. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and other federal and state laws. These requirements may place a strain on our people, systems, and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluation of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs, and making some activities more time-consuming. We have evaluated our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors in 2008 to attest to, our internal controls. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, since there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or the NASDAQ Global Market. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in our company and our ability to access capital markets, and could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, the controls and procedures that we are implementing may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market. If we fail to implement and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner. 46 Table of Contents As part of our evaluation of internal controls, we recently conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In making this evaluation, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in its Internal Control-Integrated Framework. Based upon this evaluation, we concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, as a result of a material weakness in controls regarding certain accruals and the related reconciliation and review process of the financial statement close process. A “material weakness in internal control over financial reporting” is one or more deficiencies in process that create a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Deficiencies in our controls over our accruals and reconciliation process resulted in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual and fourth quarter interim financial statements would not have been prevented or detected by us in the normal course of our financial statement close process. We have therefore instituted remedial action to ensure that this potential is not reasonably possible and the controls in the financial statement close process have been strengthened. We also maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. As of December 31, 2007, our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act). Our management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Due to the identification of a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting with respect to certain accruals and the related reconciliation and review process of the financial statement close process, as described below, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. Despite the identification of a material weakness, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the financial statements included in this Form 10-K present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the periods presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. However, if we are not successful in effecting remedial action, our financial results could be reported inaccurately or in an untimely fashion, which could adversely affect investors’ confidence in our internal controls and our company and cause our stock price to decline. If we fail to meet the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Stock Market and do not take such corrective action as the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department may require, trading in our securities may be halted and we may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. As an issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we must comply with the Marketplace Rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market in order to maintain that listing. Nasdaq-listed companies that do not maintain compliance with those Rules face having trading in their stock halted and, if they do not regain compliance as required by the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department, may be delisted. If a company is delisted, its listed stock would no longer be publicly tradable, and holders of that stock may face issues of liquidity and a decrease in the value of that stock. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, 47 Table of Contents including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. Having a staggered board makes it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. We do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant and may also be restricted by contractual agreements. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 