Risk factors that have been identified explain only about 60% of the attributable risk, whereas more than 90% of ischemic heart disease is explained by identifiable risk factors. Investigation is needed to identify the risk factors that account for the 40% gap, some of which might be genetic. The distinction between symptomatic cerebral ischemic events that last 24 hours or less (TIAs) and events of longer duration (stroke) is entirely arbitrary. Permanent tissue damage can be seen with MRI in at least 25% of patients with TIAs and some have argued that a new definition of TIAs incorporating such imaging findings is needed. Authorities believe that the diagnosis of symptomatic cerebral ischemic events remains essentially clinical and should trigger an appropriate emergency response in the community, from primary care physicians through to those in emergency departments. Response should be based on the clinical features of an individual case (for instance, the ABCD2 score based on age [A], blood pressure [B], clinical features [C], and duration of symptoms [D], and the role of imaging is to eliminate other causes and help to stratify the risk of early recurrence. Worldwide, stroke consumes about 2% to 4% of total health-care costs, and in industrialized countries medical treatment for stroke accounts for more than 4% of direct health-care costs. (American Heart Association. Heart and Stroke Facts Statistics. Dallas: American Heart Association, 1997,and HM, Thrift AG, Mihalopoulos C, et al. Cost of stroke in Australia from a societal perspective: results from the North East Melbourne Stroke Incidence Study (NEMESIS). Stroke 2001; 32: 2409-2416). - 7 - Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, known collectively as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), sufferers experience a range of gastrointestinal symptoms, including diarrhea, rectal bleeding and abdominal pain resulting in weight loss as well as other extraintestinal manifestations such as skin and eye disorders. Children with IBD suffer delayed growth and sexual maturation. Ulcerative colitis is restricted to the colon and primarily affects the mucosa while Crohn’s disease can affect all regions of the gastrointestinal tract. Crohn’s disease extends across the full thickness of the intestinal wall causing either strictures resulting in obstruction or fistulas in which adjacent tissue become interconnected. Because IBD is chronic and typically has an onset before 30 years of age, patients generally require lifelong treatment. IBD is a disease of complex etiology and its cause has long been incompletely understood. One concept that has emerged is that uncontrolled inflammation results from an inappropriate response of the intestinal mucosal immune system to otherwise innocuous luminal antigens in a genetically susceptible host. This is supported by the recent identification of a Crohn’s Disease susceptibility gene in chromosome 16 that codes for the NOD2/CARD 15 protein, a cytoplasmic protein involved in the recognition of bacterial components. Thus, it is currently believed that loss of tolerance against the indigenous enteric flora is the central event in IBD pathogenesis. Various complementary factors probably contribute to the loss of tolerance to commensal bacteria in IBD. They include defects in regulatory T-cell function and excessive stimulation of mucosal dendritic cells. IBD currently affects 0.5-1% of the Western world’s population. This translates to over one million people in America (525,000 Ulcerative Colitis, 490,000 Crohn’s Disease) and four million people worldwide (Stenson WF. Inflammatory bowel disease. In: Yamada T, ed. Textbook of gastroenterology. 2d ed. Vol 2. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1995:1748-1805). Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by demyelinating lesions in the brain, spinal cord, and optic nerves. The term multiple sclerosis refers to two characteristics of the disease: the numerous affected areas of the brain and spinal cord producing multiple neurological symptoms that accrue over time and the characteristic plaques or sclerosed areas that are the hallmark of the disease. MS is the one of the leading causes of neurological disability in young adults, second only to traumatic accidents. Certain factors are highly correlated with the risk of developing MS. The disease is usually diagnosed in patients between ages 20 and 45 years and only 5% of people diagnosed with MS are younger than 10 or older than 50. More women are afflicted than men, at a ratio of 2:1. However, men are usually diagnosed at a later age and are more likely to develop the progressive form of the disease. In addition, people who live farther away from the equator are more at risk. Ethnic differences in prevalence of the disease also exist with MS more frequently affecting whites of Scandinavian ancestry than other ethnic groups. Genetics has a role with MS occurring in relatives of patients more often than in the general population. The exact causes of MS are not known. Most experts agree that MS is probably caused from an altered immune system, an environmental exposure (i.e., infectious agent), or both. Evidence showing that the immune system has a major role in the pathogenesis of MS is overwhelming. Based on this theory, MS results from an autoimmune attack against self-myelin or self-oligodendrocyte antigens by macrophages, killer T cells, lymphokines, and/or antibodies when they cross into the brain. Other research suggests that environmental exposures may promote MS, possibly due to one or more viruses. These viruses include measles, mumps, rubella, varicella, and Epstein-Barr and may be involved in the pathogenesis of MS in several ways: (1) Transient or persistent infection outside the central nervous system (CNS) may activate autoreactive T cells. (2) Alternatively, transient CNS infection may initiate a cascade of events that fosters autoimmunity. (3) Recurrent CNS infections may precipitate repeated inflammation and demyelination, or (4) persistent CNS viral infection may incite inflammatory reactions detrimental to oligodendrocytes or directly injure them. However, to date, no infectious agent has been identified as a causal agent in MS. - 8 - It is estimated that between 250,000 and 350,000 persons in the United States have MS, and nearly 200 new cases of MS are diagnosed each week (Ryan M, Piascik P. Providing pharmaceutical care to the multiple sclerosis patient. J Am Pharm Assoc. 2002;42:753-766). Our Technology and Products Our Company is dedicated to the commercialization of non-personalized (allogeneic) cell therapy products. We are expanding non-controversial placental-derived adherent stromal cells (ASCs) via a proprietary 3D process, termed PluriX™, into therapeutics for a variety of degenerative, malignant and autoimmune disorders. The PluriX™ imitates the natural microstructure of bone marrow and does not require supplemental growth factors or other exogenous materials. We believe that the resultant PLX (PLacental eXpanded) cells’ efficacy may be related to the secretion of cytokines or other potent immune modulators. Furthermore, PLX cells are immune privileged and have immunomodulatory properties, thus protecting the recipient from immunological reactions that often accompany transplantations. Our Unique Cell Source and PluriX™ Bioreactor System Pluristem retrieves adherent stromal cells from the placenta (obtained after birth) and places these cells in its PluriX™ Bioreactor System. Our proprietary PluriX™ Bioreactor is used to promote the growth and reproduction of the cells. The cells are then separated from the three-dimensional culture. Our PluriX™ Bioreactor System uses a three-dimensional system of stromal cell cultures and substrates to create an artificial physiological environment where placental stem cells can naturally grow and reproduce outside of the human body without any use of exogenous biologics or pharmacologicals. Using a natural growth mechanism eliminates the risk of genetic instability. Unlike conventional two dimensional culturing methods, our three-dimensional microenvironment closely resembles the structure and function of the body’s bone marrow environment. Our system aims to “trick” stem cells into growing and reproducing in the same way they would in living organs. Because the size and scale of the PluriX™ Bioreactor is larger than that of human bone marrow, stem cell growth can be greatly expanded. PLX-PAD We are developing PLX-PAD cells as an allogeneic therapeutic product to treat critical limb ischemia (CLI) which results from peripheral artery disease (PAD). Like all of our other stem cells, , PLX-PAD cells are to be stored “ready to use” and shipped to hospitals and clinics for use as an intra-muscular treatment for the affected limb of a patient suffering from CLI. Pluristem has completed an initial proof of concept pilot study and two efficacy studies in mice regarding hind limb ischemia. We are planning to initiate Phase I/II clinical trials with PLX-PAD both in the Europe and the US in late 2008, subject to regulatory approval, for the indication of CLI. In addition, safety and biodistribution studies in NOD/SCID mice are currently underway. These studies have indicated a statistically significant increase in new vessel formation (angiogenesis) and blood flow in an affected limb treated with PLX-PAD cells. PLX-BMT We are developing PLX-BMT cells as an allogeneic therapeutic product to supplement the UCB hematopoietic stem cells with supportive cells (adherent stromal cells ), with the goal of improving the effectiveness of engraftments and shortening patient recovery times. Following production, PLX-BMT cells are to be stored “ready to use” and shipped to hospitals or clinics for use as an adjuvant therapy in a UCB transplant. Once matched cord blood is found (which is believed to be available in approximately 95% of patients), PLX-BMT cells would be ready for use immediately upon arrival at the hospital, where they would be injected into the patient a few hours prior to the UCB injection to improve the engraftment process. Additionally, multiple PLX-BMT injections may be able to “boost” engraftment of the hematopoietic stem cells found in UCB. Recently published study results show that sufficient engraftment is possible with the limited number of hematopoietic stem cells available in a single UCB source. We have performed preclinical trials on non-obese, diabetic, severe combined immunodeficient mice (NOD SCID mice). Preclinical results to date document that adding PLX- BMT to UCB stem cells during the engraftment of BMT human cells in NOD SCID mice showed up to a 500% increase in engraftment after irradiation and chemotherapy treatment. - 9 - PLX-STROKE We are developing PLX-STROKE cells as an allogeneic therapeutic product to treat the functional abnormalities resulting from ischemic stroke. Pluristem, through collaborators at the Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy and Biology, Leipzig, Germany, has completed a proof of principle study in mice to support the eventual initiation of clinical trials with PLX-STROKE cells for the indication of functionally improving the neurological impairments of stroke. Our studies have indicated a functional improvement in those study animals receiving PLX-STROKE cells. PLX-IBD We are developing PLX-IBD cells as an allogeneic therapeutic product to treat inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Pluristem has completed a proof of principle study where IBD was induced in mice using the intra-rectal administration of trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS). The study was done to support the eventual initiation of clinical trials with PLX-IBD for the treatment of IBD. Our studies have indicated that those study animals receiving PLX-IBD had a statistically significant improvement in the intestinal inflammatory reaction as measured histologically versus those study animals receiving a placebo. PLX-MS We are developing PLX-MS cells as an allogeneic therapeutic product to treat multiple sclerosis (MS). Pluristem has completed a proof of principle study in mice where experimental autoimmune encephalitis (EAE) was induced via immunization with the MOG35-55 protein. EAE is an autoimmune inflammatory disease of the CNS that is mediated by T-cells and macrophages and represents the paradigmatic model for multiple sclerosis (MS). The study was done to support the eventual initiation of clinical trials with PLX-MS for the treatment of MS. Our studies have indicated that in those study animals receiving PLX-MS utilizing the functional EAE score, PLX-MS prevented the appearance of clinical symptoms and other signs associated with MS. The treated animals exhibited a statistically significant improvement in the EAE inflammatory reaction as measured histologically versus those study animals receiving a placebo. Intellectual Property Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect our technology and products with patents. Our technology is patented in Australia, Russia, New Zealand and South Africa and we have patents pending in the U.S., Canada, Japan, Mexico and elsewhere. These patents will begin to expire in 2020. The patents included in our portfolio address the composition, processes and therapeutic use of adherent stromal cells. We are committed to protecting our intellectual property position and to aggressively pursue our patent portfolio. Through our experience with ASC-based product development, we have developed expertise and know-how in this field. We are in the final stage of building our ability to manufacture clinical grade ASCs in-house. To protect this non-patentable know-how, our policies require confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors, manufacturers and advisors. These agreements generally provide for protection of confidential information, restrictions on the use of materials and assignment of inventions conceived during the course of performance for us. These agreements might not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information. We fully own our intellectual property and we have no obligations to pay royalties to any third party. - 10 - The patent approval process is complex and results are therefore highly uncertain. No assurance can be given that any of our pending patent applications or future patent applications will be approved, that the scope of any patent protection granted will exclude competitors or provide us with competitive advantages , that any of the patents that have been or may be issued to us will be held valid if subsequently challenged, or that other parties will not claim rights to or ownership of our patents or other proprietary rights that we hold. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others have not developed or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our technology or products or design around any patents that have been or may be issued to us or any future licensors. Since patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until patents are issued, there can be no assurance that others did not first file applications for products covered by our pending patent applications, nor can we be certain that we will not infringe any patents that may be issued to others pursuant to such applications. Research and Development We have spent on research and development $4,393,000 and $2,549,000 on fiscal year 2008 and 2007, respectively. Foundational Research. Our core technology the PluriX™ Bioreactor system was developed by Dr. Meretzki of the Technion – Israel Institute of Technology’s Rappaport Faculty of Medicine. Dr. Meretzki also worked in close collaboration with Professor Dov Zipori and Dr. Avinoam Kadouri of the Weizmann Institute of Science. Professor Zipori specializes in cultures and stromal cells and Dr. Kadouri specializes in the planning and creation of bioreactors. Ongoing Research and Development Plan. On July 9,2007 we announced that we were entering into Collaborative Research Agreement with the Center for Regenerative Therapies at Charite University Hospital of Berlin (BCRT). Pluristem and BCRT are collaborating on a variety of indications utilizing adherent stromal cells derived from the placenta that have been expanded in the Company’s proprietary bioreactor. The initial focus of the collaboration is on neurological and autoimmune disorder indications such as Multiple Sclerosis. The agreement also covers organ transplantation and cardiovascular indications such as inflammatory cardiomyopathy. According to the agreement we will be the exclusive owner of the technology and any products produced as a result of the collaboration. Our manufacturing facilities are placed in Haifa, Israel. The manufacturing facility has been approved as a Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) standard site for the purpose of manufacturing PLX cells. The R&D and manufacturing facilities include 7,000 square feet in total. We receive the placentas used for our research activities from one hospital in Israel. Any medical waste related to the use of placentas is treated in compliance with environmental laws and standards. Once we have completed products ready for commercialization, we will evaluate our various sale and marketing alternatives, including licensing of our technology to other companies, manufacturing and direct sales or entering into marketing collaborations. Employees We presently have 21 full-time employees and 1 part-time employee in research and development and 5 full-time employees and 2 part time employees in management. We presently also have 1 full-time employee in the United States for our business development activity. Competition Although companies involved in stem cell research are generally highly specialized and focused on different aspects within this field, there are several companies that Pluristem believes may be considered competitors. Osiris Therapeutics, Inc. uses bone marrow stem cells to create allogeneic products; and Gamida Cell Ltd. (a private company based in Jerusalem, Israel) competes with Pluristem in developing an alternative to BMT by using UCB. In the mesenchymal stem cell field, Aastrom Biosciences, Inc. develops cell therapy products from bone marrow stem cells; and CellGenix Technologie Transfer GmbH and Stem Cell Technologies, Inc. develop products and media to support cell therapy by utilizing cells from UCB, bone marrow and peripheral blood. Descriptions of these companies are provided below. - 11 - Government Regulation and Supervision Once fully developed, we intend to market our stem cells to research laboratories and clinics primarily in the United States and in Europe. Accordingly, we believe that the research and development of our technology and the production and marketing of our stem cells are subject to the laws and regulations of governmental authorities in the United States and all other countries where our technology will be used and our stem cells will be marketed. Specifically, in the United States, the FDA, among other agencies, regulates new product approvals to establish safety and efficacy of these products. Governments in other countries have similar requirements for testing and marketing. The Regulatory Process In the United States and in Europe, regulatory approval of new medical devices and biological products involves a lengthy process from the development of a new product through pre-clinical and clinical testing. This process takes a number of years and requires the expenditure of significant resources. There can be no assurance that our technology will ultimately receive regulatory approval. We produce our PLX cells in a GMP-compliant production area for therapeutic applications. “GMP” is a standard set for laboratories by the World Health Organization and other health regulatory authorities. Therefore, to a certain degree, the manner in which the FDA will regulate our PLX cells is uncertain. Product Approval in the United States On February 8, 2007 we were informed that the FDA’s Center for Biological Evaluation and Research (CBER) had accepted the Company’s proposed Pre-Investigation New Drug (PreIND) for its PLX-BMT product to be used in pre-clinical studies of the treatment of hematological malignancies. We are currently in the process of completing the IND package to be submitted to the FDA. The acceptance of the IND document by the FDA is required before initiation of Phase I clinical trials. On May 6, 2008, we announced that CBER had approved the synopsis to conduct a Phase I clinical trial in the United States utilizing PLX-PAD for the treatment of limb ischemia associated with peripheral artery disease (PAD). We are currently in the process of completing the IND package for the PLX-PAD to be submitted to the FDA. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors, among others, could affect our actual results of operations and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. You should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this annual report before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Our common stock is considered speculative and the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. We have not earned any revenues since our incorporation and only have a limited operating history in our current business of developing and commercializing stem cell production technology, which raise doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our Company has a limited operating history in our current business of developing and commercializing stem cell production technology and must be considered in the development stage. We have not generated any revenues since our inception and we will, in all likelihood, continue to incur operating expenses without significant revenues until we successfully develop our stem cell production technology and commercialize our cell therapy products. Our primary source of funds has been the sale of our common stock. We cannot give assurances that we will be able to generate any significant revenues or income. These circumstances make us dependent on additional financial support until profitability is achieved. There is no assurance that we will ever be profitable or that we will be able to continue as a going concern as is noted in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2008. - 12 - Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report states that there is a substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Kost, Forer, Gabbay & Kassierer a Member of Ernst & Young Global, state in their audit report attached to our audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years that ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 that, since we are an exploration stage company, we have no established source of revenue, and are dependent on our ability to raise capital from shareholders and other sources to sustain operations, there is a substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that acceptable financing to fund our ongoing operations can be obtained on suitable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to support our operations, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. In that event, we may be forced to cease operations and our stockholders could lose their entire investment in our company. Our likelihood of profitability depends on our ability to develop and commercialize products based on our stem cell production technology, which is currently in the development stage. If the Company is unable to complete the development and commercialization of our stem cell products successfully, our likelihood of profitability will be limited severely. We are engaged in the business of developing cell therapy products. We have not realized a profit from our operations to date and there is little likelihood that we will realize any profits in the short or medium term. Any profitability in the future from the Company’s business will be dependent upon successful commercialization of our potential cell therapy products, which will require significant additional research and development as well as substantial clinical trials. If we encounter problems or delays in the research and development of our potential cell therapy products, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital to finance our operation during the period required to resolve such problems or delays. Our cell therapy products are currently in the development stage and we anticipate that we will continue to incur operating expenses without significant revenues until we have successfully completed all necessary research and clinical trials. We, and any of our potential collaborators, may encounter problems and delays relating to research and development, regulatory approval and intellectual property rights of our technology. Our research and development programs may not be successful, and our cell culture technology may not facilitate the production of cells outside the human body with the expected result. Our cell therapy products may not prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials. If any of these events occur, we may not have adequate resources to continue operations for the period required to resolve the issue delaying commercialization and we may not be able to raise capital to finance our continued operation during the period required for resolution of that issue. Accordingly, we may be forced to discontinue or suspend our operations. We need to raise additional financing to support the research and development of our cell therapy products and our products in the future but we cannot be sure we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms favourable to us when needed. If we are unable to obtain additional financing to meet our needs, our operations may be adversely affected or terminated. Our ability to continue to develop and commercialize our potential cell therapy products is dependent upon our ability to raise significant additional financing when needed. If we are unable to obtain such financing, we will not be able to fully develop our technology and commercialize our cell therapy products. Our future capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including: — continued scientific progress in the Company's research and development programs; — costs and timing of conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approvals and patent prosecutions; — competing technological and market developments; — our ability to establish additional collaborative relationships; and — the effect of commercialization activities and facility expansions if and as required. - 13 - We have limited financial resources and, to date, negative cash flow from operations. We are dependent on our ability to sell our common stock, primarily on a private placement and public offering basis, for funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on that basis in light of the market demand for our securities, the state of financial markets generally, and other relevant factors. Any sale of the our common stock in the future will result in dilution to existing stockholders. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will not incur debt in the future, that we will have sufficient funds to repay our future indebtedness, or that we will not default on our future debts, jeopardizing our business viability. Finally, we may not be able to borrow or raise additional capital in the future to meet our needs or to otherwise provide the capital necessary to conduct the development and commercialization of our potential cell therapy products, which could result in the loss of some or all of one’s investment in our common stock. We cannot guarantee continuation of government programs and tax benefits. We have in the past received certain Israeli government grants and may in the future utilize certain tax benefits in Israel by virtue of these programs. To remain eligible for these grants and tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making some specified investments in fixed assets. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits we receive could be canceled and we may have to refund payments previously received under these programs (with interest and linkage differentials) or pay certain taxes. We cannot guarantee that these programs and tax benefits will be continued in the future, at their current levels or at all. If these programs and tax benefits are ended, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. Because we received grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to ongoing restrictions. We received royalty-bearing grants from the Israeli Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Chief Scientist, for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. The terms of the Chief Scientist’s grants limit our ability to transfer know-how developed under an approved research and development program outside of Israel, regardless of whether the royalties were fully paid. Any non-Israeli citizen, resident or entity that, among other things, becomes a holder of 5% or more of our share capital or voting rights, is entitled to appoint one or more of our directors or our chief executive officer, serves as a director of our company or as our chief executive officer is generally required to notify the same to the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States. Therefore, we are exposed to currency exchange fluctuations in other currencies such as the Euro and the New Israeli Shekel (NIS). Moreover, a portion of our expenses in Israel and Europe are paid in NIS and Euros, respectively, which subjects us to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations. Our primary expenses paid in NIS are employee salaries, fees for consultants and subcontractors and lease payments on our Israeli facilities. The dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase to the extent increases in the rate of inflation in Israel are not offset by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar, which would harm our results of operations. Since a considerable portion of our expenses such as employees’ salaries are linked to an extent to the rate of inflation in Israel, the dollar cost of our operations is influenced by the extent to which any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel is or is not offset by the devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the NIS, after adjustment for inflation in Israel, will appreciate in relation to the dollar. In that event, the dollar cost of our operations in Israel will increase and our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. During 2005, 2006 and 2007, inflation-adjusted NIS appreciated against the dollar, which raised the dollar cost of our Israeli operations. We cannot predict whether the NIS will appreciate against the dollar or vice versa in the future. Any increase in the rate of inflation in Israel, unless the increase is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar, will increase labor and other costs, which will increase the dollar cost of our operations in Israel and harm our results of operations. - 14 - If we fail to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals for our potential cell therapy products, our ability to commercialize our potential cell therapy products will be limited severely. Once our potential cell therapy products are fully developed, we intend to market our potential cell therapy products primarily in the United States, Europe and Japan. We must obtain FDA approval of our technology and potential cell therapy products before commercialization of our potential cell therapy products may commence in the United States and similar agencies in Europe. We may also be required to obtain additional approvals from foreign regulatory authorities to commence our marketing activities in those jurisdictions. If we cannot demonstrate the safety, reliability and efficacy of our cells, including long-term sustained cell engraftment, or if one or more patients die or suffer severe complications in future clinical trials, the FDA and/or other regulatory authorities could delay or withhold regulatory approval of our technology and potential products. Furthermore, even if we obtain regulatory approval for our cell therapy products, that approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which they may be marketed. Even after granting regulatory approval, the FDA, other regulatory agencies, and governments in other countries will continue to review and inspect marketed products, manufacturers and manufacturing facilities. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including a withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, governmental regulatory agencies may establish additional regulations, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our technology and our potential cell therapy products. We have no experience in conducting and managing human trials. If we fail in the conducting of such trials, our business will be materially harmed. We have no experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials which will be necessary to obtain regulatory approvals for our therapeutic product candidates. The failure of successfully conducting clinical trials could materially harm our business. The trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There is a trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. This consolidation trend may result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and discovery technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition in these industries. This trend may also result in fewer potential collaborators or licensees for our therapeutic product candidates. Also, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we may lose existing licensees or collaborators as a result of such consolidation. This trend may adversely affect our ability to enter into agreements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and as a result may harm our business. Our product development programs are based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new technologies. The novel nature of our therapeutics creates significant challenges in regards to product development and optimization, manufacturing, government regulation, third-party reimbursement and market acceptance. For example, the FDA has relatively limited experience with stem cell therapies. None has been approved by the FDA for commercial sale, and the pathway to regulatory approval for our biologic drug candidates may accordingly be more complex and lengthy. As a result, the development and commercialization pathway for our therapies may be subject to increased uncertainty, as compared to the pathway for new conventional drugs. There are no FDA approved treatments for some of the disease indications we are pursuing. This could complicate and delay FDA approval of our biologic drug candidates. There are no drugs or therapies currently approved with for treatment of PAD using allogeneic cell therapy products. As a result, the clinical efficacy endpoints, or the criteria to measure the intended results of treatment may be difficult to determine. In addition, patients battling PAD and who, therefore, are candidates for treatment with PLX-PAD, are typically suffer from complications and disorders that may bring to amputation and other complications prior to the completion of the study. This resulting reduction in the number of patients available for evaluation at the end of the study may make it more difficult for us to demonstrate efficacy, as necessary to obtain FDA approval to market our products. - 15 - Our cell therapy drug candidates represent new classes of therapy that the marketplace may not understand or accept. Even if we successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our biologic drug candidates, the market may not understand or accept them. We are developing biologic drug candidates that represent novel treatments and will compete with a number of more conventional products and therapies manufactured and marketed by others, including major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any of our developed and potential products will depend on a number of factors, including: — the clinical safety and effectiveness of our cell therapydrug candidates and their perceived advantage over alternative treatment methods; — adverse events involving our biologic drug candidates or the products or product candidates of others that are stem cell based; — the cost of our products and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. If the health care community does not accept our potential products for any of the foregoing reasons, or for any other reason, it could affect our sales, having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers for raw materials needed for the manufacture, if any of these third parties fail or are unable to perform in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture and deliver will be compromised. In order to produce our call therapy product candidates, we require certain raw of materials in addition to the placenta used in our manufacturing process. These items must be manufactured and supplied to us in sufficient quantities and in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP. To meet these requirements, we have entered into supply agreements with firms that manufacture these components to GMP standards. Our requirements for these items are expected to increase if and when we transition to the manufacture of commercial quantities of our biologic drug candidates. In addition, as we proceed with our clinical trial efforts, we must be able to demonstrate to the FDA and EMEA that we can manufacture our biologic drug candidates with consistent characteristics. Accordingly, we are materially dependent on these suppliers for supply of GMP-grade components of consistent quality. Our ability to complete ongoing clinical trials may be negatively affected in the event that we are forced to seek and validate a replacement source for any of these critical components. If our processing and storage facility or our clinical manufacturing facilities are damaged or destroyed, our business and prospects would be negatively affected. If our processing and storage facility or the equipment in the facility were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of some or all of the stored units of our cell therapy drug candidates and it would force us to delay our clinical trial processes. We have a manufacturing facility located in Haifa, Israel. If this facility or the equipment in it is significantly damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively replace our manufacturing capacity. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize our cell therapy products, we may encounter a lack of commercial acceptance of our cell therapy products, which would impair the profitability of our business. Our research and development efforts are primarily directed toward obtaining regulatory approval for our potential cell therapy products. Current methods of stem cell collection and use have been widely practiced for a number of years, and our technology and products may not be accepted by the marketplace as readily as these or other competing processes and methodologies. Additionally, our products may not be employed in all potential applications being investigated, and any reduction in applications would limit the market acceptance of our technology and our potential revenues. As a result, even if we obtain all required regulatory approvals, we cannot be certain that our potential cell therapy products will be adopted at a level that would allow us to operate profitably. - 16 - If we do not keep pace with our competitors and with technological and market changes, our technology and products may become obsolete and our business may suffer. The market for our products is very competitive, is subject to rapid technological changes and varies for different individual products. We believe that there are potentially many approaches being pursued in by other companies, including some by private companies about which information is not public, that could result in competition to our products. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources, more product candidates and have developed product candidates and processes that directly compete with our products. Our competitors may have developed, or could develop in the future, new products that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. We depend to a significant extent on certain key personnel, the loss of any of whom may materially and adversely affect our company. Our success depends on a significant extent to the continued services of certain highly qualified scientific and management personnel, in particular, Zami Aberman, our Chief Executive Officer and Yaky Yanay, our Chief Financial Officer We face competition for qualified personnel from numerous industry sources, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. The loss of service of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. In the event of the loss of services of such personnel, no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the services of adequate replacement personnel. We do not maintain key person insurance on the lives of any of our officers or employees. The patent approval process is complex and we cannot be sure that our pending patent applications or future patent applications will be approved. The patent approval process is complex and results are therefore highly uncertain. No assurance can be given that any of our pending patent applications or future patent applications will be approved, that the scope of any patent protection granted will exclude competitors or provide us with competitive advantages , that any of the patents that have been or may be issued to us will be held valid if subsequently challenged, or that other parties will not claim rights to or ownership of our patents or other proprietary rights that we hold. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others have not developed or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our technology or products or design around any patents that have been or may be issued to us or any future licensors. Since patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until patents are issued, there can be no assurance that others did not first file applications for products covered by our pending patent applications, nor can we be certain that we will not infringe any patents that may be issued to others pursuant to such applications. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and protect our technology and our cell therapy products. If our patents and proprietary right agreements do not provide sufficient protection for our technology and our cell therapy products, our business and competitive position will suffer. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to develop our technology and commercialize cell therapy products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We have not conducted freedom of use patent searches and no assurance can be given that patents do not exist or could not be filed which would have an adverse affect on our ability to develop our technology or maintain our competitive position with respect to our potential cell therapy products. If our technology components, devices, designs, products, processes or other subject matter are claimed under other existing United States or foreign patents or are otherwise protected by third party proprietary rights, we may be subject to infringement actions. In such event, we may challenge the validity of such patents or other proprietary rights or we may be required to obtain licenses from such companies in order to develop, manufacture or market our technology or products. There can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain such licenses or that such licenses, if available, could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, the failure to either develop a commercially viable alternative or obtain such licenses could result in delays in marketing our proposed products or the inability to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to defend ourselves against charges of patent infringement or to protect our proprietary rights against third parties, substantial costs will be incurred regardless of whether we are successful. Such proceedings are typically protracted with no certainty of success. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties and force us to curtail or cease our development of our technology and the commercialization our potential cell therapy products. - 17 - We must develop our technology and products in order to become a profitable company. The initial patent underlying our technology will expire in approximately 2020. If we do not complete the development of our technology and products in development by then, or to create additional sufficient layers of patents, other companies may use the technology to develop competing products. If this happens, we would likely lose our competitive position and our business would likely suffer. Furthermore, the scope of our patents may not be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. In addition, our patents could be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. We also intend to seek patent protection for any of our potential cell therapy products once we have completed their development. We also rely on trade secrets and unpatentable know-how that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and licensees. These agreements may be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for any breach. If this were to occur, our business and competitive position would suffer. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation such as patent infringement claims, which could adversely affect our business. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to develop our technology and commercially viable products without infringing the proprietary rights of others. Although we have not been subject to any filed infringement claims, other patents could exist or could be filed which would prohibit or limit our ability to develop our potential cell therapy products in the future. In the event of an intellectual property dispute, we may be forced to litigate. Intellectual property litigation would divert management’s attention from developing our technology and marketing our potential cell therapy products and would force us to incur substantial costs regardless of whether we are successful. An adverse outcome could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, and force us to curtail or cease the development and commercialization of our cell therapy products. Potential product liability claims could adversely affect our future earnings and financial condition. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in adverse affects. As a result, we may incur significant product liability exposure. We may not be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance at reasonable cost and/or reasonable terms. Excessive insurance costs or uninsured claims would add to our future operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel and the unstable military and political conditions of Israel may cause interruption or suspension of our business operations without warning. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. As a result, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Acts of random terrorism periodically occur which could affect our operations or personnel. In addition, Israeli-based companies and companies doing business with Israel, have been the subject of an economic boycott by members of the Arab League and certain other predominantly Muslim countries since Israel’s establishment. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with certain Arab countries and the Palestinian Authority, and various declarations have been signed in connection with efforts to resolve some of the economic and political problems in the Middle East, we cannot predict whether or in what manner these problems will be resolved. Wars and acts of terrorism have resulted in significant damage to the Israeli economy, including reducing the level of foreign and local investment. - 18 - Furthermore, certain of our officers and employees may be obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called up for active military duty at any time. All Israeli male citizens who have served in the army are subject to an obligation to perform reserve duty until they are between 42 and 54 years old, depending upon the nature of their military service. Although our internal control over financial reporting was considered effective as of June 30, 2008, there is no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to be effective in the future, which could result in our financial statements being unreliable, government investigation or loss of investor confidence in our financial reports. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish an annual report by our management assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management’s report as of the end of fiscal year 2008 concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. There is however, no assurance that we will be able to maintain such effective internal control over financial reporting in the future. Ineffective internal controls over financial reporting can result in errors or other problems in our financial statements. In addition, our internal control over financial reporting has not yet been audited by our independent registered public accounting firm. In the future, if are unable to assert that our internal controls are effective, our investors could still lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities. We are subject to the requirement that of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to comply with the requirement in a timely manner the market price of our stock could decline. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in 2010, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or other regulatory authorities. Because some of our officers and directors are located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, you may have no effective recourse against the management for misconduct and may not be able to enforce judgment and civil liabilities against our officers, directors, experts and agents. Most of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against our officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. Because we do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock, investors seeking dividend income should not purchase shares of our common stock. We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception, and we do not anticipate paying any such dividends for the foreseeable future. Investors seeking dividend income should not invest in our common stock. We have a potential conflict with a prior financing agreement that may expose us to potential litigation In our subscription agreement for our May 2007 equity financing (the “Prior Financing Agreement”), there is a provision that requires us for a period of four years (subject to acceleration under certain circumstances) not to sell any of our common stock for less than $.0125 per share. The Prior Financing Agreement provides that any sale below that number must be preceded by a consent from each purchaser in the placement. Since that date, we have effected a one-for-200 reverse stock split. On August 5 , 2008, we entered into securities purchase agreements pursuant to which we sold securities at a price higher than the pre-split price of $.0125 and below the post-split price of $2.50. We have decided to proceed with this offering notwithstanding this provision for the following reasons: — The agreement does not contain any provisions for the adjustment of the specified minimum price in the event of stock splits and the like. If such agreement were to have contained such a provision, the floor price would be $2.50, which is more than the offering price of this offering. — The majority of purchasers in the private placement have sold the stock purchased in the placement, and thus the number of purchasers whose consent is purportedly required has been substantially reduced. The number of shares outstanding as to which this provision currently applies according the information supplied by our transfer agent is 1,900,838 shares. — An agreement that prevents our Board of Directors from issuing shares that are necessary to finance our business may be unenforceable. — Even if the agreement were considered enforceable and the share price number were to be adjusted for our reverse stock split, we believe that there would be no damage from this offering to the holders of our shares whose consent is purportedly required In the event that a court were to hold that the issuance of shares below $2.50 per share would violate the Prior Financing Agreement, it is unclear what remedy the court might impose. If the court were to impose a remedy that would be the equivalent of an anti-dilution provision (which is not contained in the Prior Financing Agreement), any issuance of shares would be dilutive to our shareholders, including those who purchase shares in the current offering Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. - 19 - 