D. Risk Factors Industrial risks and risks related to the economic, financial, commercial, legal and contractual environment Failure to comply with laws and government regulations or to react to changes in laws and regulations could negatively affect our business and financial condition We are subject to energy, environmental and administrative laws and government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the energy services and environmental business, which may include ethical issues, money laundering, privacy, record keeping, and anti-corruption practices. Furthermore, we cannot predict the timing or form of any future regulatory or law enforcement initiatives. Changes in existing energy and environmental laws and regulations may materially affect the way in which we conduct our business, our products or services and the value of our assets. If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, these changes or initiatives in an appropriate way, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to additional legal risk. This could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties. Despite our best efforts to comply with applicable regulations, there are a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear or where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings. The regulators and law enforcement have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, among other things, in suspension or revocation of one or more of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action which could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many aspects of our business, particularly the production, transport and distribution of electricity, the transport and distribution of natural gas and liquefied natural gas, or LNG, water management, the operation and maintenance of nuclear facilities, and the collection and treatment of waste, are subject to strict regulations at the European, national and local levels, including antitrust regulation and required licenses, permits and authorizations. Regulatory changes may affect prices, margins, investments, operations, systems, and consequently, our strategy, financial condition and profitability. Despite the oversight systems we have put in place, it is impossible to anticipate all regulatory changes. Our businesses are also subject to numerous laws and regulations concerning the environment, health protection and safety standards, related to air quality, waste water, drinking water quality, the treatment of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, the management of nuclear facilities and LNG terminals, and soil contamination. A change or tightening of these laws and regulations could lead to costs or investments, including non-recoverable costs if we are forced to close down an operation. Furthermore, in the course of our business, we must obtain and renew various permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities, an often long, unpredictable and costly process. Despite the substantial expense of applying for such permits or authorizations, they may in the end not be granted, or be granted too late. Finally, regulations require investments and operational outlays not just by us, but also by our customers, particularly concession-granting municipalities, to upgrade their facilities to regulatory standards. If the customer does not meet these obligations, our reputation as an operator and our growth perspective may be damaged. Even effective internal controls over financial reporting have limitations and due to the inherent limitations of such systems, we cannot be assured that all operational and financial reporting risks are controlled. We are a global multinational with business segments that are geographically dispersed and, in some situations, decentralized. Despite the significant investment and effort we have made in terms of internal controls over financial reporting and despite the fact that we have met all applicable US and French internal control requirements, no system of internal controls will prevent or detect all possible operational risks or misstatements because of the inherent limitations of internal controls, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, corruption and fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. 5 Table of Contents Our energy trading activity, including fuel procurement and power marketing, exposes us to risks associated with the fluctuation of energy prices, the participation in evolving markets, exposures to our counterparties and other factors that may have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition We trade natural gas, electricity, crude oil and other petroleum products as well as emission rights on the spot market and other competitive markets. We also enter into derivative contracts and a variety of other instruments to purchase and sell natural gas, electricity, petroleum products and coal as part of our energy trading operations or for our own use. With respect to such transactions, our revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon the prevailing market prices for power in our regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. As a result, our energy trading activities, including fuel procurement and power marketing, expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We attempt to manage our exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and other risk management activities. However, these may not always be followed or may not work as planned and cannot always eliminate risks associated with energy trading. As a result, we cannot predict the impact our energy trading and risk management decisions may have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Authorities with jurisdiction over wholesale power rates in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, as well as independent system operators overseeing some of these markets, may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms which may adversely impact or otherwise limit trading margins and lead to diminished opportunities for gain. We are also exposed to the risk that counterparties to our energy trading contracts owing us money or energy will breach their obligations. In such cases, we may be forced to enter into alternative hedging arrangements or honor underlying commitments at the then-current market prices, which may exceed our contractual prices and adversely affect our results of operations and/or result in losses. Although we attempt to estimate probability of default by a counterparty, we cannot predict our actual exposure to this risk. Certain of our businesses and our financial condition may be negatively affected by economic slowdowns or raw material price increases Some of our business areas, especially those services supplied to industrial customers, are sensitive to economic cycles. Any economic slowdown, particularly in developed countries, has a rapid effect of reducing industrial investment, and, as a result, a negative influence on demand for the engineering and installation services that our service companies offer. This fluctuation in demand results in significant variations in activity levels in these businesses, which may result in reduced revenues in some periods. In western Europe, our business for industrial customers and our energy business for customers which are heavy power users (metallurgy, chemicals) may also be affected if those customers relocate some of their activities to countries with lower salary levels. Similarly, changes in raw materials prices, especially with respect to oil-based products whose prices are subject to sudden rises, may have a significant impact on the cost of supplies. Despite the fact that most contracts contain cost indexing clauses, it is possible that the indexing formula used is not perfect or takes time to come into effect, and does not therefore completely offset the cost increase. The profitability of affected businesses and therefore our financial condition may temporarily deteriorate. We operate in increasingly competitive and evolving markets, which has increased pressure on our market share and may have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition Most of our businesses are subject to strong competition both from large international competitors and, in a number of markets, small niche players. Electricity or gas industry deregulation in the European Union and in the United States has opened most markets to new competitors, brought volatility into the market and shortened contract terms. In addition, there is a trend toward the concentration of the major energy companies in Europe. There is also a perceptible increase in competitive pressure in the Group's operations in Latin America and Asia. This competitive pressure could have a significant negative effect on our sales prices, margins and our market share. Our Environment businesses of Water and Waste Services are also subject to strong competitive pressure from both international and local operators, the effect of which may be lower prices for our services to industrial or municipal 6 Table of Contents customers or both, as well as a risk of non-renewal of major contracts as they expire. We are currently observing a trend toward the consolidation of market players in Europe, particularly in Germany, the Benelux countries and the United Kingdom. Such decreases in prices could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations We hold significant assets and liabilities, earn income and pay expenses of our subsidiaries in US dollars and a variety of foreign currencies. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in euros. Therefore, when we prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses in currencies other than the euro into euros at applicable exchange rates. Significant currency fluctuations, in particular in the United States, Brazil and Thailand, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, increases and decreases in the value of the euro will affect the value of these items in our Consolidated Financial Statement even if their value has not changed in their original currency. Similarly, many of the commodities and other goods that we purchase as part of our operations are indexed in currencies other than the euro, particularly in US dollars. As a result, decreases in the value of the euro against these other currencies, particularly the US dollar, can effectively increase the price we have to pay for these commodities, even if their prices in the index currency does not change, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Group is subject to legal risks which may have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition The Group faces legal risks in the conduct of all its businesses in all of the markets in which it does business around the world. Among these risks are risks related to partnerships into which Group companies have entered and risks related to contracts signed with customers and suppliers. The Group is also party to significant disputes and arbitrations, as more fully described in “Item 8. Financial Information – Legal and Arbitration Proceedings”. These legal risks could result in liabilities that could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Failure by significant customers and suppliers to meet their contractual obligations could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition In our Energy and Environment operations, our subsidiaries frequently enter into contracts with municipal authorities or private local entities, the performance of which can depend on a few or even a single customer. This is the case, for example, in delegated water-management contracts, certain electricity production and sale operations involving medium and long-term power purchase agreements, and in the operation of non-hazardous waste incinerators. A customer’s refusal or inability to uphold its contractual obligations, particularly regarding rate adjustments, can compromise the economic equilibrium of the contracts and the profitability of investments we or our subsidiaries have made. Although we usually negotiate contractual provisions requiring compensation for non-performance, full compensation is not always recoverable, which can materially adversely affect our gross revenue and net income. We have faced such situations in the past with our water concessions in Argentina for example. Likewise, in managing our water treatment plants, thermal power plants and waste treatment units, we frequently depend on a limited number of suppliers for water, non-hazardous waste, various types of fuel and equipment. In particular, in the market for turbines and foundry parts for electrical power plants, there are, by nature, a restricted number of suppliers and this market will be particularly limited in the coming years. Any supply interruption or delay, or breach of the technical performance warranty of a piece of equipment even if caused by a supplier’s breach of contract, can materially adversely affect a project’s profitability. This is particularly true in electricity generation, with the arrival of new high-output gas turbines. We are subject to risks on retirement commitments Our commitments to employees relating to retirement and various post-employment benefits are subject to assumptions and laws, changes in which could negatively affect our financial condition. Where these commitments arise from defined benefit plans, provisions are made in the accounts and their financing is partially covered through pension funds and insurance companies. The risks pertaining to these plans relate to both the amount of the commitments and to the evolution of the related asset coverage. The amount of these commitments is calculated on the basis of estimates which depend on certain assumptions, particularly concerning inflation, salary increases, mortality rates, employee turnover, retirement age, and legal benefits. In the future, these assumptions may be subject to adjustments which may increase our actual commitments to pensions, and it may therefore be necessary to increase the amount of related provisions and, in certain cases, pay in additional contributions. More specifically, changes in national legislation may cause mandatory new adjustments, for example 7 Table of Contents regarding discrimination between beneficiaries. This would have a negative effect on our balance sheet, income and financial condition. Furthermore, the calculation of commitments is based on a discount rate, which is tied to market interest rates; a drop in market rates could result in a substantial increase in the present value of commitments, which would not necessarily be offset by an equivalent appreciation of the related asset coverage, whose value is tied to the equity stock market. We are subject to a risk of occupational illnesses and related liability We may be exposed to cases of occupational illness, which may give rise to legal actions against us, and the potential payment of damages and interest which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. The principal exposures to this risk concern: • activities involving work on facilities situated in the hot zone of nuclear plants due to the risk of ionizing radiation; • activities involving work on pipes or technical facilities which are insulated against heat or cold, or located in flocked areas of buildings, presenting asbestos-related risk; and • activities involving work on refrigeration, air conditioning or hot water network installations entailing the risk of Legionnaire’s disease. Our business and results of operations may be negatively affected by the decision of our local and municipal partners to terminate or modify partnership agreements We develop many of our local operations in partnership with municipal governments or private local entities. These partnerships are one of the ways we share economic and financial risks of certain large projects, limiting the capital we commit and enhancing our ability to adapt to specific local-market conditions. Such partnerships may also be required by local regulations. Changes in project plans, local political and economic conditions, or a partner’s financial condition may result in the termination of a partnership, where a partner requests dissolution of a joint venture, sells its interest or exercises its contractual rights to purchase our interest. As a result, we may be required to increase our financial commitment on some projects to maintain our interests, or, in the event of a conflict with a partner, to seek resolution in litigation or arbitration. Such events may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Revenues from markets outside North America and Europe represent a significant portion of our total revenues and our capital employed and present certain country specific risks Although our businesses are primarily concentrated in Europe and North America, revenues from markets outside North America and Europe represented approximately 11% of our revenues and 13% of our capital employed in 2006. Our activities in these countries entail a higher degree of risk than in developed countries. In particular, these risks include volatility in the gross domestic product of these countries, economic and governmental instability, changing regulations, misapplication of regulations, nationalization or expropriation of private assets, collection difficulties, social unrest, significant fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, income and other taxes levied by foreign governments and local authorities, currency exchange control measures, and other unfavorable interventions and restrictions imposed by foreign governments, any of which could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in 2006 in the situation of Suez Environment in Argentina which led to the termination of the Aguas de Santa Fe and Aguas Argentinas concessions are described in Item 4 and Item 8.A. Moreover, the Group's energy activity in Thailand suffered from the upheavals caused by the quasi-coup d'etat in September 2006, which had an impact on Glow Energy as described in Item 4. 8 Table of Contents Our financial condition may be negatively affected by changes in interest rates As of December 31, 2006, about 57% of our gross debt was under a variable rate and 43% was under a fixed rate, after taking into account derivative instruments used to hedge underlying exposures to change in interest rates. We may have exposure to interest-rate variations in the future as any rise in interest rates increases the cost of our variable-rate debt. We are subject to financial risks which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We hold a number of stakes in publicly traded companies. The market value of these holdings can fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including stock market trends, change in the valuation of the sectors in which these companies operate and the economic and financial condition of each individual company, among others. A decline in the value of the companies in which we own a stake in could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and results of operations may be negatively affected by operational disruptions or interruptions The operations of our power plants, gas networks, LNG terminals, incinerators and water systems are subject to hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents or other events beyond our control. A severe occurrence might result in injury and extensive property or environmental damage as well as in unplanned business interruption. Although we intend to maintain the customary insurance coverage to protect our assets and related liabilities from such risks, we can offer no assurance that those coverages will be sufficient for any casualty loss we may incur to present a negative effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on natural gas and hydro energy for electricity generation We own and operate electricity generation plants using various fuels including coal, gas, fuel, nuclear and hydraulic power. The operation of those plants is dependent on the availability of such commodities at any time while their profitability is dependent on the prices paid for their purchase. As a consequence our business and financial condition might be negatively affected by (i) the rise of fuel prices such as gas and other oil-related products for thermal generation if the related sales contract is not fully transferring the price risk to the client or by (ii) the absence or deficit of rainfall impacting the reservoir levels necessary for optimal hydro energy generation. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services may negatively affect our sales revenues and our financial condition In all countries where we operate, sales volumes and prices of our products and services may be impacted by a number of factors outside our control, including but not limited to: - the level of consumer demand; - weather conditions; - governmental regulations; or - overall economic conditions. Fluctuations in those parameters could impact the demand for our products and services and may negatively affect our sales revenues and our financial condition. The issue of special warrants (BSAs) to our shareholders could have anti-takeover effects or negatively affect the likelihood of success of any unsolicited tender offer for our Shares that does not have the approval of our Board of Directors At our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on May 4, 2007, a resolution was passed, authorizing the Board of Directors to issue special warrants called bons de souscription d’actions, or BSAs, to all our shareholders. Our Board of Directors was given the authority, in the case of an unsolicited tender offer by a third party and under the circumstances described below, to issue BSAs without consideration to all of our shareholders and under terms and conditions which would allow the latter to subscribe new Suez shares at preferential conditions. 9 Table of Contents The Board of Directors was delegated the authority to fix the number, exercise price and conditions and other terms of the BSAs, provided however that the maximum nominal amount of the share capital increase that could result from any such issue of BSAs may not exceed 2.7 billion euros and the number of BSAs to be issued could not exceed the number of shares composing the share capital at the time of the issue. This category of BSAs is new in France, as they have been introduced by a new legislation in March 2006. There is no practical experience with their use. Our Board of Directors would be entitled to issue the BSAs during an unsolicited tender offer period, without further shareholder action, in the event (i) the bidder or any co-bidders acting in concert with it within the meaning of the French Code de commerce (were any of them be itself the subject of a tender offer) was entitled to frustrate a bid without having to get specific shareholder approval during the offer period, or (ii) the entities described in (i) above are controlled respectively, within the meaning of the French Code de Commerce, by entities, at least one of which would be entitled to frustrate a bid without implementing measures described in (i) above. The exercise of the BSAs, if issued, may cause a significant dilution to any bidder that attempts to make a tender offer for the Company without advance approval of our Board of Directors. As a result, the issue of BSAs by our Board of Directors and the subsequent exercise of the BSAs could jeopardize the success of a tender offer for our Shares. The BSAs would lapse if the unsolicited tender offer or any competing offer fails or is withdrawn. See “Item 10. Additional Information – B. Articles of Association – Disclosure of Share Holdings” for the disclosure obligations to be complied with when certain thresholds in our share capital or voting rights are crossed. See also “Item 10. Additional Information – B. Articles of Association – Change in Control” for the provisions of our by-laws which would be relevant in the event of a change of control. Environmental risks Exposure to specific environmental regulations and environmental risks generally may negatively affect our financial condition Facilities that we own or manage for local industrial and municipal third parties pose risks to the natural environment, including the air, water and soil, as well as risks to the health of consumers, employees and subcontractors. These health and environmental risks are subject to strict and precise national and international regulations and regular audits by government authorities. Evolving regulations covering environmental responsibility make it difficult to assess risks related to our past activities, particularly in the case of closed landfills. In addition, it is difficult to quantify and assess whether any responsibility would include liability for damage to wildlife habitats or plant species because in any given case, whether or not such damage occurs could be the subject of debate even within the scientific community. Even where past activities complied with regulations in force when they were in operation, the conditions created by such past activities may nonetheless be a source of pollution to the natural environment in the future, and may be subject to retroactive regulation. Non-compliance with laws and regulations can result in contractual financial penalties or fines. Eight of our sites in the European Union are Seveso “High Tier” sites, whose activities include chlorine solvent incineration, hazardous industrial waste treatment and underground natural gas storage. In the course of our business, we handle or generate dangerous products or by-products, such as fissile materials, fuels, and certain chemical byproducts of water treatment. Some of our waste facilities have industrial and medical waste treatment operations that may be potentially toxic. The gaseous emissions of concern are greenhouse gases, gases precursors of acid rain, toxic gases and dust. In the Water business, the primary potential air pollutants are chlorine and gaseous by-products resulting from accidental releases of water treatment by-products. In addition, waste treatment and sewage treatment operations can create odor problems. Potential impacts of activities on water in the natural environment include leachates from poorly controlled landfills, the release of heavy metals into the environment, and aqueous discharges from the smoke treatment systems of incineration facilities. These various emissions can pollute groundwater and waterways. Sewage treatment plants discharge treated water into the natural environment. It is possible that this water may not meet 10 Table of Contents discharge standards in terms of its organic, nitrogen and phosphorus content. Also, some of the facilities we manage are not equipped to treat rainwater. Soil pollution issues include the storage of hazardous products and liquids, leaks during processes that use hazardous liquids, and storage and spreading of treated sludge. Failure to observe standards may result in contractual financial penalties or fines that would have a negative effect on our financial condition. Our activities are likely to be covered by stricter national and international standards relating to climate change and related costs may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition Particularly in electrical power generation and waste treatment and waste recycling, we are engaged in activities that come under national, international and European Union climate change programs established pursuant to the Kyoto Protocols. In particular, on January 1, 2005, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, or EU ETS, came into effect, setting carbon dioxide emission reduction targets for 2005 to 2007. The EU ETS directive covers about one hundred and thirty of our facilities. In Europe, we may experience increased costs with respect to our efforts to comply with these new carbon dioxide regulations. If our activities produce more carbon dioxide than the national allocation plans allow, we may have to enter the market to purchase emissions allowances, to allow us to continue such activities. It is not clear at this stage how expensive it will be to purchase such allowances. In particular, with such a young market, price volatility experienced so far is extremely high. We also face the risk of regulatory uncertainty surrounding our obligations with respect to climate control. For example, the EU ETS directive has not yet been fully implemented in every country of the European Union, and may be implemented differently in each country. Also, the permitted carbon dioxide levels for the 2008-2012 period have not yet been established, and we expect them to be stricter than the levels established for 2005 to 2007. The scope EU ETS directive itself may be revised and we might be negatively affected if more of our activities had to be captured by the revised regulations. In the longer term the national allocations under the EU ETS directive are planned to be reviewed every five years beginning in 2008. This exposes us to a risk of stricter regulations each time there is a review which could increase our costs and cause a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Outside of the European Union we face even greater difficulties in assessing our regulatory risk with respect to climate control, in the United States because each state has its own regulations, and internationally where the future is even more unclear. We may incur liability from our ownership and operation of nuclear facilities We own and operate nuclear power facilities in Belgium for the production of electric power. Risks of liability arise from the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, including mechanical or structural problems at a nuclear facility, the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. Although experience exists at the international level about decommissioning of nuclear facilities at the end of their useful lives, uncertainties remain with respect to the technological and financial aspects depending on their institutional framework which can still evolve in the future. Besides the abandonment of nuclear activities in Belgium, other political decisions or difficulties encountered in obtaining new permits (for example for biomass in the Netherlands and for the offshore wind farm in Belgium) may have a negative effect on our activities and on the improvement of our environmental performance. If the provisions of the Belgian law on the gradual exit from the use of nuclear energy to produce electricity adopted in January 2003 are actually implemented, our revenues could decrease in proportion to the length of the discounted technical life of the facilities from the date of the first effective closing (2015). 11 Table of Contents ITEM 