ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section discusses various risk factors that are attendant to the Company’s business and the provision of its services. If the events outlined below were to occur individually or in the aggregate, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical industry could decrease the need for the services the Company provides Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the drug development process. The Company’s business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Changes in regulation, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that the Company has difficulty satisfying or that make its services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for the Company’s services. Also, if government were to introduce measures to contain drug costs or pharmaceutical and biotechnology company profits from new drugs, the Company’s customers may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on research and development. Failure to comply with applicable governmental regulations could harm the Company’s business As a company in the contract research industry, the Company is subject to a variety of governmental regulations, both in the US and the UK, relating to animal welfare and the conduct of its business. Failure by it to comply with such laws and regulations could result in material liabilities, the suspension of licenses or a material adverse effect on its business or financial condition. In addition, these laws and regulations could significantly restrict the Company’s ability to expand its facilities or require it to acquire costly equipment or incur other material costs to comply with regulations. The Company depends on the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries The Company’s net revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in research and development. Accordingly, economic factors and industry trends that affect the Company’s clients in these industries also affect its business. For example, if health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursements for pharmaceutical products, the Company’s customers may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on research and development. Pharmaceutical industry consolidation may negatively impact revenues The process of consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry should accelerate the move towards outsourcing work to contract research organizations such as the Company in the longer term as resources are increasingly invested in in-house facilities for discovery and lead optimization, rather than development and regulatory safety evaluation. However, in the short term, there is a negative impact with development pipelines being rationalized and a focus on integration rather than development. This can have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and net income. The Company competes in a highly competitive market Competition in both the pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical market segments ranges from in-house research and development divisions of large pharmaceutical, agrochemical and industrial chemical companies, who perform their own safety assessments, to contract research organizations like the Company who provide a full range of services to the industries and niche suppliers focusing on specific services or industries. Providers of outsourced drug development services compete on the basis of many factors, including the following: • reputation for on-time quality performance; • expertise, experience and stability; • scope of service offerings; 16 • how well services are integrated; • strength in various geographic markets; • competitive pricing; • technological expertise and efficient drug development processes; and • ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a time-saving, accurate manner. The Company has traditionally competed effectively in the above areas, but there can be no assurance that it will be able to continue to do so. If the Company fails to compete successfully, its business could be seriously harmed. The Company may not be able to successfully develop and market or acquire new services The Company may seek to develop and market new services that complement or expand its existing business or expand its service offerings through acquisition. If the Company is unable to develop new services and/or create demand for those newly developed services, or expand its service offerings through acquisition, its future business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company may expand its business through acquisitions Although acquisitions do not play a material role in the Company’s near term growth strategy, the Company may expand its business through acquisitions. Factors which may affect its ability to grow successfully through acquisitions include: • difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits; • diversion of management’s attention from current operations; • the possibility that the Company may be adversely affected by risk factors facing the acquired companies; • acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made though the issuance of the Company’s common stock to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilutive to the percentage of ownership of the Company’s existing stockholders; • potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies not covered by the indemnification the Company may obtain from the seller; • risks of not being able to overcome differences in foreign business practices, language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies; and • loss of key employees of the acquired companies. The Company’s non-US locations account for a majority of its revenues, making the Company exposed to risks associated with operating internationally Approximately 79% of the Company’s net revenues are generated by its facilities outside the United States. As a result of these foreign sales and facilities, the Company’s operations are subject to a variety of risks unique to international operations, including the following: • adverse changes in value of foreign currencies against the US dollar in which results are reported; • import and export duties and value-added taxes; • import and export regulation changes that could erode profit margins or restrict exports; • potential restrictions on the transfer of funds; and • the burden and cost of complying with foreign laws. The Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations and exchange controls The Company’s long term debt is primarily denominated in US dollars whereas the Company’s functional currency is the UK pound sterling, which results in the Company recording other income/loss associated with the debt as a function of relative changes in foreign exchange rates. 17 The Company operates on a world-wide basis and generally invoices its clients in the currency of the country in which it operates. Thus, for the most part, exposure to exchange rate fluctuations is limited as sales are denominated in the same currency as costs. Trading exposures to currency fluctuations do occur as a result of certain sales contracts, performed in the UK for US clients, which are denominated in US dollars and contribute approximately 8% of total net revenues. Management has decided not to hedge against this exposure. As the Company operates on an international basis, movements in exchange rates, particularly against sterling, can have a significant impact on its price competitiveness vis a vis competitors who trade in currencies other than sterling or dollars. The Company is reliant upon debt provided by third party lenders The Company has approximately $83 million of outstanding debt. $59 million of this debt is due on March 1, 2011 and the remaining debt is represented by capital leases, primarily related to the sale and leaseback of the Company’s facilities. If the Company is unable to pay or refinance this debt when it becomes due, or to pay its carrying costs on such debt in the form of interest, the Company could face a default under the terms of its loan agreement. A variety of factors, including worsening financial performance, failure to comply with financial covenants and pressure from animal rights extremists, could make it difficult to pay or refinance this debt. The Company’s quarterly operating results may vary The Company’s operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are influenced by factors over which it has little control such as: • exchange rate fluctuations; • the commencement, completion, postponement or cancellation of large contracts; • the progress of ongoing contracts; and • changes in the mix of its services. Management believes that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. While fluctuations in the Company’s quarterly operating results could negatively or positively affect the market price of its common stock, these fluctuations may not be related to the Company’s future overall operating performance. The Company’s contracts are generally terminable on little or no notice. Termination of a large contract for services or multiple contracts for services could adversely affect the Company’s revenue and profitability In general, the Company’s clients may terminate the agreements that they enter into with the Company or reduce the scope of services under these contracts upon little or no notice. Contracts may be terminated for various reasons, including: • unexpected or undesired study results; • production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; • adverse reactions to the drug being tested; • regulatory restrictions placed on the drug or compound being tested; or • the client’s decision to forego or terminate a particular study. Because most of the Company’s pre-clinical revenues are from fixed price contracts, these contracts may be subject to under-pricing and cost overruns The majority of the Company’s contracts with its clients are fixed price contracts creating the risk of cost overruns under these contracts. The Company typically has some flexibility under these contracts to adjust the price to be charged under these contracts if it is asked to provide additional services. If the Company did have to bear significant costs of under-pricing or cost-overruns under these contracts, its business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 18 The Company depends on its senior management team, and the loss of any member may adversely affect its business The Company believes its success will depend on the continued employment of its senior management team, especially Andrew Baker (Chairman and CEO) and Brian Cass (President and Managing Director). If one or more members of the senior management team were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, those persons could be difficult to replace and the Company’s business could be harmed. If any of the Company’s key employees were to join a competitor or to form a competing company, some of the Company’s clients might choose to use the services of that competitor or new company instead of the Company. Furthermore, clients or other companies seeking to develop in-house capabilities may hire away some of the Company’s senior management or key employees. The loss of one or more of these key employees could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company must recruit and retain qualified personnel Because of the specialized scientific nature of the Company’s business, it is highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Therefore, although traditionally the Company has experienced a relatively low turnover in its staff, in the future it may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the conduct and further development of its business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to expand its businesses and remain competitive in the industries in which it participates. Reliance on transportation The Company’s operations are reliant on transport for the movement of materials and supplies, and a significant disruption to the transport systems could have a material adverse effect on this business. The Company relies on third parties for important services The Company depends on third parties to provide it with services critical to its business. The failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the needed services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. An increase in energy costs may significantly increase the Company’s operating costs The Company’s business is dependent on various energy sources, including fuel oil, electricity and natural gas. Rising oil and gas prices in the past year have increased the Company’s operating costs and future increases would have a similar effect. Actions of animal rights extremists may affect the Company’s business The Company’s development services utilize animals (predominantly rodents) to test the safety and efficacy of drugs. Such activities are required for the development of new medicines and medical devices under regulatory regimes in the United States, Europe, Japan and other countries. The Company is targeted by extreme animal rights activists who oppose all testing on animals, for whatever purpose, including the Company’s animal testing activities in support of its safety and efficacy testing for clients. These groups, which include Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (“SHAC”), the Animal Liberation Front (“ALF”), and Win Animal Rights (“WAR”), among others, have publicly stated that the goal of their campaign is to “shut Huntingdon”. These groups have targeted not only the Company, but also third parties that do business with the Company, including clients, suppliers and advisors. Acts of vandalism and other acts by these animal rights extremists who object to the use of animals in drug development could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 19 Animal rights extremists have targeted, and may continue to target, the US financial community that trades LSR Voting Common Stock, which has caused and may continue to cause illiquidity and a lower market price of the Voting Common Stock. The animal rights extremists have in the past harassed the financial community that trades in LSR shares, including market makers, stockbrokers, auditors, investors and trading platforms. The liquidity and market price of the shares of LSR Voting Common Stock could be adversely affected in the future by such actions. 20 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 