Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results. Fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results have resulted and will continue to result from numerous factors, including: • strategic actions by us, such as acquisitions of additional businesses, products, or technologies; • the discontinuation of a product line or other revenue generating activity, such as our stent grafts; • the relocation and integration of manufacturing operations and other strategic restructuring, such as the transfer of AlboGraft production; • adverse regulatory actions which may necessitate recalls of our products or warning letters that negatively affect the markets for our products, such as the recent AlboGraft warning letter in the United Kingdom; • our determination whether or not to continue the payment of quarterly cash dividends; • our determination whether of not to continue share repurchases; • costs incurred in connection with the termination of contractual and other relationships, including distributorships; • our ability to collect outstanding accounts receivable in selected countries outside of the United States; • changes in the mix of products we sell; • the expiration or exhaustion of deferred tax assets such as net operating loss carry-forwards; • effects of domestic and foreign economic conditions and exchange rates on our industry and/or customers; 17 Table of Contents • increased product and price competition; and • the loss of any significant customer, especially in regard to any product that has a limited customer base. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not always meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. We may not maintain our recent profitability. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $6.4 million. While we reported operating and net income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had an operating and a net loss for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. There can be no assurance we will achieve significant net sales gains or maintain either operating or net profitability in the future. As a result of our exit from stent grafts in 2011, reported sales growth in 2012 may be challenged, and as a result we expect that it will be lower than our 2011 reported sales. In addition, we intend to increase operating expenses in 2012 in areas such as sales and product development, and as a result we may need to maintain or reduce our operating expenses in other areas in order to maintain or improve operating profitability. Decreased investment levels may inhibit future growth in net sales and earnings. Additionally, our ability to maintain and increase profitability will be influenced by many factors, including: • the level and timing of future sales, manufacturing costs and operating expenditures; • market acceptance of our new products; • the productivity of our direct sales force and distributors; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • our ability to successfully build direct sales organizations in new markets; • our ability to successfully acquire and develop competitive products; • our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, products, or technologies; • the impact on our business of competing products, technologies, and procedures; • the impact of the 2.3% medical device excise tax commencing in 2013; • our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products in new and existing markets; and • the cost of intellectual property challenges, if any. If we are unable to expand our product offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations could suffer. The treatment of peripheral vascular disease is shifting from open vascular surgery to minimally invasive endovascular procedures, and many of our products are used primarily or exclusively in open vascular surgery procedures. We market and sell our products primarily to vascular surgeons, and the majority of our marketing efforts and sales relate to products used in open vascular surgery rather than in endovascular procedures. Recent transactions in 2011 have further concentrated our focus on open vascular procedures. For instance, in 2011 we divested a large portion of our endovascular product portfolio, our TAArget Thoracic Stent Graft and our UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft, and further ended our relationship with Endologix, Inc. for distribution of its Powerlink stent graft. Furthermore, notwithstanding periodic product updates and next-generation iterations, many of our devices have been on the market for several years or longer. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors unless we can keep pace with existing or new products and technologies in the vascular device 18 Table of Contents market and the minimally invasive endovascular procedure market, in particular. Our success in developing and commercializing new products and new versions of our existing products is affected by our ability to: • identify in a timely manner new market trends and customer needs; • keep pace with technological changes and industry standards; • obtain regulatory clearance or approval of new products and technologies; • successfully develop cost-effective manufacturing processes for such products; • commercially introduce such products and technologies; and • achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to expand our product offerings, we may not achieve our growth objectives and our results of operations could suffer. We may acquire businesses and assets in the future. We may experience difficulties in completing the integration of these acquisitions into our business, or we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. In order to expand our product offerings, we have completed several acquisitions, and a key part of our strategy is to acquire additional businesses, products, or technologies in the future. Our growth strategy depends in part upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete, and integrate suitable acquisitions and develop products from uncommercialized intellectual property that we acquire. If we are unable to complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms, our growth objectives could be negatively affected. Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience: • difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel, and products into our existing business; • difficulties in integrating manufacturing operations into our existing business or successfully replicating manufacturing processes at new manufacturing facilities; • difficulties or delays in transitioning clinical studies or unfavorable results from such clinical studies; • difficulties or delays in commercializing intellectual property that we acquire; • the sudden reduction in volume or loss of orders from a key customer, particularly where the acquired company has concentrated sales; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • challenges resulting from limited or no prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; • unknown or unanticipated liabilities included as part of the acquisition; • the need to improve an acquired product in order to gain broader market acceptance; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions; • difficulties in acquiring the rights to and protecting intellectual property; • difficulties if the acquired company is remote or inconvenient to our Burlington, Massachusetts, headquarters; • dilution as a result of equity financing required to fund acquisition costs; or • debt as a result of debt financing required to fund acquisition costs, which would be senior to our outstanding shares of capital stock, and which would require interest payments to a lender. 19 Table of Contents We could also discover deficiencies withheld from us due to fraud or otherwise not uncovered in our due diligence prior to an acquisition, including deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, and regulatory compliance, as well undisclosed contractual or other liabilities and product liabilities, any of which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any of these difficulties could negatively impact our ability to realize the intended and anticipated benefits that we currently expect from our acquisitions or from acquisitions we complete in the future and could harm our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, in December 2007 we acquired Biomateriali S.r.l., an Italian manufacturer of prosthetic polyester grafts. In February 2011 we closed our AlboGraft Vascular Graft manufacturing facility in Brindisi, Italy and transferred production to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters. Initially, we encountered difficulties and delays which negatively impacted our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the devices to satisfy demand. Also, the transfer was more expensive than we anticipated. In addition, between October 2011 and February 2012, we received five product complaints on grafts produced in our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters which resulted in the recall of two AlboGraft production lots and a Medical Device Alert sent to all hospitals in the United Kingdom urging vigilance when using the AlboGraft. If our relocation of this product line to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters continues to be more costly or difficult than anticipated, our financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. For any of these reasons or as a result of other factors we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions and our operating results may be harmed. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported sales and earnings. For the full year ended December 31, 2011, 36% of net sales were derived from sales occurring outside of the United States. Because the majority of our sales outside of the Americas are denominated in local currencies, our reported sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At present, we do not manufacture any of our products outside the United States and we rarely engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar could be expected to have a negative impact on our revenue and earnings growth as euro-denominated revenues and earnings, if any, would be translated into U.S. dollars at a reduced value. We cannot predict the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our sales and earnings. Our assumptions about the market for our products may not be correct. We are focused on the market for devices used to treat peripheral vascular disease. We believe that demographic trends point towards an increase in the need for our products. However, the projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect or do not materialize or if drug therapies gain more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative treatment, which in each case could adversely affect our business prospects and profitability. For example, sales of our shunt products have declined in recent quarters, possibly in relation to the introduction of carotid stenting in recent years, and this trend could continue to adversely impact our future growth. We face intense competition from other companies, technologies, and alternative medical procedures and we may not be able to compete effectively. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, subject to change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other activities of industry participants. Although no one company competes against us in all of our product lines, a number of manufacturers of peripheral vascular devices have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs, and larger facilities than ours; have established 20 Table of Contents reputations with our target customers; and have developed worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. Our competitors could elect to devote additional resources to the markets in which we currently enjoy less competition. Also, although we currently have leading market positions in the markets for some of our products, this is not true for the markets for all of our products. We have from time to time experienced difficulties competing against very large companies. Recent industry consolidation could make the competitive environment more difficult for smaller companies like ours. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, regulatory, marketing, sales, and personnel resources than we do. Certain of these competitors are able to manufacture at lower costs and may therefore offer comparable products at lower prices. Certain of these competitors may also have greater experience in developing and further improving products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing such products. Certain of these competitors may obtain patent protection or regulatory approval or clearance, or achieve product commercialization, before us, any of which could materially adversely affect us. Further, if the trend towards endovascular procedures versus open vascular procedures continues or accelerates, our competitors may be better poised to take advantage of that trend, since our main product lines are used primarily in open vascular procedures. Because of the size of the vascular disease market opportunity, competitors and potential competitors have dedicated, and we believe will continue to dedicate, significant resources to aggressively promote their products. Also, new product developments that could compete with us more effectively are likely because the vascular disease market is characterized by extensive research efforts and technological progress. Competitors may develop technologies and products that are safer, more effective, easier to use, less expensive, or more readily accepted than ours. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may also be able to achieve more efficient manufacturing and distribution operations than we can. In addition, many of our products face competition from alternative procedures that utilize a different kind of medical device that we do not currently sell. Increased competition could also result in price reductions and loss of market share, any of which could result in lower revenues and reduced gross profits. If we fail to convert additional countries or products from distributor sales to direct sales, or encounter difficulties in effecting such conversions, our results of operations could suffer. In 2011, we converted Spain and Denmark from distributor sales to direct sales. In the future, we also intend to convert select other countries and products from distributor sales to direct sales. Such conversions typically result in disruptions in our sales in the applicable geographies. These transitions may also have an adverse effect on our cash flow from operations because distributors, unlike direct sales personnel, pay us for inventory that they stock for later sale. In addition, switching to a direct sales force may subject us to longer customer collection times and larger bad debt expense, since we would be required to collect customer payments directly rather than through a distributor. Our distribution agreements are typically exclusive with terms of up to three years. These agreements may temporarily constrain our ability to convert certain countries or products from a distributor to a direct sales model. Further, even where the payment of compensation is not required by contract or local law, it may be prudent to make such a payment in order to assure a successful market transition. For example, we paid consulting and transition services fees to our former distributors in Spain and Denmark in connection with recent conversions to direct sales in those countries even though not required under an existing contract or local law, because the absence of cooperation by a distributor may result in the sudden erosion of our customer base, which could materially harm our ability to sell our product in that country. Following termination of any distribution relationship, we may encounter difficulties in transitioning to a direct-sales model in any country in question. It may take us longer than expected to find sufficient qualified sales personnel to establish an effective sales force, which could negatively impact projected sales. If a distributor sold our products through a network of sales agents, rather than exclusively through its own personnel, we may not be able to establish relationships with all members of that network, temporarily limiting our access to the existing market. Similarly, failure to maintain or quickly re-establish a distributor’s close 21 Table of Contents relationships with the physicians who use our products could cause a drop in sales. Further, it may be difficult or impossible to transfer the assignment of a distributor’s rights to sell our products, and as a result sales to customers may be delayed until a new agreement or approval is obtained. The transition to a direct sales model may also require us to incur additional expenses and meet regulatory requirements that were previously the responsibility of the distributor. As a result of these risks, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in transitioning to a direct sales model in Spain, Denmark, or any other countries that we select, and difficulties that we encounter in these transitions could negatively affect our business. Current economic instability may harm our operating results. Financial markets and the economies in the United States and internationally have recently experienced disruption and volatility and conditions could worsen. As a result, the economic environment may, among other things: • create downward pressure on the pricing of our products; • adversely affect the collection of accounts receivable, particularly in regions of Southern Europe such as Italy, Spain, and Greece; • increase the sales cycle for certain of our products; • slow the adoption of new technology; • adversely affect our customers, causing them to reduce spending; and • adversely affect our suppliers, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products. Any of these conditions could harm our operating results and liquidity. If we are unable to increase our selling prices to customers, our rate of net sales growth might be reduced and our operating results could suffer. In the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, a material portion of our increases in net sales was driven by higher average selling prices to our hospital customers across several of our product lines, particularly with respect to sales occurring in the United States. We have in the past been able to rely upon our intellectual property position, our well-known brands, our established reputation in the vascular surgery device marketplace, and, in some cases, an absence of competition, to implement price increases. If healthcare spending is reduced, particularly in the United States, in response either to government-enacted healthcare reform or to general economic conditions, if the reimbursement rates for the medical procedures in which our products are used are reduced or constrained, or if competitors introduce lower-priced products of comparable safety and efficacy, we may become unable to implement further increases in the selling prices of our products. If we become unable to raise selling prices, it might reduce our rate of net sales growth, which could harm our operating results. If there is a disruption in the supply of products that we distribute, or if our relationships with their manufacturers are impaired, our net sales and results of operations could be harmed. We are party to agreements with Neovasc Inc. to distribute the XenoSure Biologic Vascular Patch in the United States and most of Europe, and from time to time we have been party to agreements with other manufacturers to distribute products in certain countries in which we have a direct sales force. If we are unable to market these products successfully, or if our agreement with a manufacturer is terminated early, our net sales and results of operations would likely suffer. If we do not meet our minimum purchase requirements under any distribution agreement, and do not cure this deficiency, the agreement may be terminated by the manufacturer, which, in the case of Neovasc, would result in the loss of our purchase option to acquire the XenoSure product. In addition, even if we market our distributed products successfully, if the manufacturer is unable to produce enough of its products to meet our demands, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands, and our net sales and results of operations may suffer. 22 Table of Contents Our devices may not achieve market acceptance, which could adversely affect our business. Some of our devices have been recently introduced into the market, including The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter and the Over-The-Wire LeMaitre Valvulotome, and we cannot assure you that any of those devices will achieve market acceptance. The same is true of new devices that we may acquire or internally develop in the future. The marketing of our products requires a significant amount of time and expense in order to identify and develop relationships with the physicians who may use our products, invest in training and education with these physicians, and employ a sales force that is large enough to interact with the targeted physicians, with no assurance of success. In some cases, our devices may face competition from devices marketed by our competitors, and our customers may not prefer our devices. In other cases, our devices may be used in new procedures and techniques, and if physicians do not adopt these procedures and techniques, demand for these devices would fail to develop. For example, in 2010 we launched The UnBalloon Non-Occlusive Modeling Catheter in Europe, but it did not achieve widespread market adoption because of user convenience and design issues. This catheter was subsequently withdrawn from the market, redesigned by our research and development department, and then re-released into European and United States markets in the fourth quarter of 2011. There can be no assurance that the re-designed device will achieve wider market adoption than first version of the device. If our products do not gain market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage the anticipated growth of our business, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The growth that we have experienced, and may experience in the future, will continue to provide challenges to our organization. For example, since 1998 we have completed several acquisitions, and we expect to pursue additional acquisitions in the future. As our operations expand, both in terms of scope and geographic coverage, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various partners, suppliers, and other organizations. We also will need to manage the corresponding growth of our manufacturing operations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls and reporting systems and procedures, and may in the future require us to transition to new enterprise management software. Such growth could place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, and we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we cannot scale and manage our business appropriately, our anticipated growth may be impaired and our financial results could suffer. The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in markets outside of the United States. For the full year ended December 31, 2011, 36% of our net sales were derived from our operations outside of the Americas. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations, including export licensing requirements, duties and tariffs, and other trade restrictions; • the risk of non-compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by our sales representatives or our distributors; • the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person, or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person, or entity; 23 Table of Contents • a shortage of high-quality sales personnel and distributors; • loss of any key personnel who possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities, which could result in significant fines, penalties, and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; • exposure to different legal and political standards; and • political, economic, and/or social instability. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our net sales, results of operations, and financial condition. If we experience continued difficulties in manufacturing our AlboGraft Vascular Graft, which was relocated from Brindisi, Italy to Burlington, Massachusetts in 2011, then our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In February 2011, we closed our AlboGraft Vascular Graft manufacturing facility in Brindisi, Italy and transferred production to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters. Initially, we encountered difficulties and delays which negatively impacted our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the devices to satisfy demand. Also, the transfer has been more expensive than we anticipated. In addition, between October 2011 and February 2012, we received five product complaints on products produced in Burlington, Massachusetts which resulted in the recall of two AlboGraft production lots and a Medical Device Alert sent to all hospitals in the United Kingdom urging vigilance when using the AlboGraft. If our relocation of this product line to our Burlington, Massachusetts headquarters continues to be more costly than anticipated, our financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. We depend on single- and limited-source suppliers for some of the components to our products, as well as for acquired products that have not been transitioned to in-house manufacture, and if any of those suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply them on acceptable terms or otherwise, it could limit our ability to deliver our products to our customers on a timely basis or at all. We rely on single- and limited-source suppliers for some of our important product components, as well as for products we have acquired that are not manufactured in-house. For example, our EndoRE remote endarterectomy product line is manufactured for us by third-party suppliers. There are relatively few, or in some cases no, alternative, validated sources of supply for these components and products. We do not have supply agreements with most of these suppliers, and instead place orders on an as-needed basis. These suppliers could discontinue or be rendered incapable of the manufacture or supply of these components or products at any time. For instance, the supply of ink for our LifeSpan ePTFE Vascular Graft was indefinitely interrupted due to a fire at our former single-source supplier. Although we are sourcing an alternate supplier for that component and feel 24 Table of Contents that we have an adequate supply of ink on hand, it is possible that we could experience delays in manufacturing the product if we are not successful in timely validating the new supply. We do not carry a significant inventory of these components and products. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers, if required, may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any supply interruption from our vendors or failure to obtain additional vendors for any of the components used to manufacture our products would limit our ability to manufacture our products, may result in production delays and increased costs, and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. If we are unable to identify alternate sources of supply for the components, we would have to modify our products to use substitute components, which may cause delays in shipments, increase design and manufacturing costs, and increase prices for our products. We cannot assure you that any such modified products would be as effective as the predecessor products, or that such modified products would gain market acceptance. This could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation and our financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. Any disruption in our manufacturing facilities could harm our results of operations. Our principal worldwide executive, distribution, and manufacturing operations are located at adjacent 27,098 square foot and 21,929 square foot leased facilities located in Burlington, Massachusetts. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace in the event of a natural or man-made disaster. In such event, we could not shift production to alternate manufacturing facilities, and we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses, including potential damage to our reputation, and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our focus on the needs of vascular surgeons could harm our business if interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists perform a greater percentage of new procedures that replace those procedures traditionally performed by vascular surgeons, or if vascular surgeons increasingly specialize in procedures for which we do not sell devices. The treatment of peripheral vascular disease is increasingly shifting from open vascular surgery to minimally invasive endovascular procedures. We market and sell our products primarily to vascular surgeons, and the majority of our marketing efforts and sales relate to products used in open vascular surgery rather than in endovascular procedures. Recent transactions in 2011 have further concentrated our focus on open vascular procedures. For instance, in 2011 we divested a large portion of our endovascular product portfolio, our TAArget Thoracic Stent Graft and our UniFit Abdominal Stent Graft, and further ended our relationship with Endologix, Inc. for distribution of its Powerlink stent graft. In addition to performing traditional open surgical procedures, vascular surgeons in growing numbers also perform minimally invasive, image-guided interventional procedures for peripheral vascular disease. However, vascular surgeons may not adopt these procedures in the numbers we expect and instead these procedures may be largely performed by interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists. Many of our competitors have focused their sales efforts on these interventionalists. If interventional cardiologists and interventional radiologists perform a greater percentage of these new procedures than we expect, our net sales may decline. Moreover, demographic trends and other market factors, such as reimbursement rates, are driving vascular surgeons in the United States and potentially in other markets to increasingly specialize in certain kinds of procedures, such as endovascular therapies, the creation and maintenance of dialysis access sites, and the treatment of varicose veins. Sometimes these physicians will discontinue performing other vascular procedures. If this trend continues, it could lead to the fragmentation of our customer base, which would reduce cross-selling opportunities and the efficiency of each sales call by our sales representatives, which in turn would negatively impact our business. 25 Table of Contents We depend on our senior management team and other key scientific, sales, and technical personnel, and if we are unable to retain them or recruit additional qualified personnel we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives. We depend on the continued services of our senior management team and other key scientific, sales, and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. Our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. Each of our key employees may terminate his or her employment with us at any time. The loss of any of our senior management team or key employees could harm our business. We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel on acceptable terms. We could face significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing, and retaining engineering and sales employees. Any loss or interruption of the services of our other key personnel could also significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives, because we cannot assure you that we would be able to find an appropriate replacement should the need arise. We maintain life insurance payable to us on our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George W. LeMaitre, but not on our other key personnel. If we do not maintain our relationships with our physician customers, our growth may be limited and our business could be harmed. Physicians typically influence the medical device purchasing decisions of the hospitals and other healthcare institutions in which they practice. Consequently, our relationships with our physician customers are critical to our continued growth. We believe that these relationships are based on our long-standing reputation and presence in the market for peripheral vascular devices, the quality of our product offerings and clinical outcomes, our marketing efforts and our presence at medical society meetings. Any actual or perceived diminution in our reputation or the quality of our products or our failure or inability to maintain these other efforts could damage our current relationships, or prevent us from forming new relationships, with physicians and cause our growth to be limited and our business to be harmed. Our lack of customer purchase contracts makes it difficult to predict sales and plan manufacturing requirements, which could lead to lower net sales, higher expenses, and reduced margins. We generally do not have long-term purchase contracts with our hospital customers, who typically order products on an as-needed basis. As a result, it is difficult to accurately forecast our component and product requirements. Our manufacturing and operating expenses are largely based on anticipated sales volume, and a significant portion of these expenses is and will continue to be fixed. We must plan production and order product components and third-party manufactured products several months in advance of customer orders. In addition, lead times for product components and third-party manufactured products that we order vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier and demand for each component at any given time. These factors expose us to a number of risks, such as the following: • if we overestimate our requirements, or experience shortages, we may be obligated to carry more inventory than we need, which could result in write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory; • if we underestimate our requirements, we may have an insufficient product component inventory, which could disrupt manufacturing of our products and cause delays in shipments and net sales; and • if we experience shortages of product components from time to time, the manufacturing and shipping of our products could be delayed. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could lead to lower net sales, higher expenses, and reduced margins. 26 Table of Contents The use or misuse of our products may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business. Although we offer training for physicians in the use of some of our products, we do not require that physicians be trained in the use of our products. Not requiring training specific to the use of our devices may expose us to greater risk of product liability if injuries occur during a procedure involving our products. In addition, if demand for our products continues to grow, less skilled surgeons will likely use the devices, potentially leading to an increased incidence of patient injury and an increased risk of product liability or product complaints. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured, or labeled, contain defective components, or are misused, or if our products are found to have caused or contributed to injuries or death, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. We are from time to time involved in product liability claims. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, and result in sizable damage awards against us. Claims of this nature may also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market and subject us to product recalls. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any claim made against us. Further, we may not be able to maintain the same level of coverage, and we may not be able to obtain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing coverage in the future. Additionally, if any such product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or is in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could be harmed. We rely on our independent distributors to market and sell our products in select markets outside of the United States and Canada. Sales of our products through independent distributors represented 7% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our success in these markets depends largely upon marketing arrangements with distributors, in particular their sales and service expertise and relationships with their respective customers in the marketplace. Although we intend to replace some of these distributors with a direct sales force, this will take time and we may maintain a distribution model in some markets. We do not control our distributors and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans. Many of our distributors initially obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approval for sale of our products in their respective countries. We do not have long-term contracts with many of our distributors, and our distributors may terminate their relationships with us on little or no notice. In addition, some of our distributors are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us, may sell products that compete with ours or devote more efforts to selling other products, and may stop selling our products at any time. If we lose any of our significant distributors, if we fail to recruit and retain additional skilled distributors in these locations, or if our distributors devote more effort to selling products other than ours, our operations could be harmed. We have experienced turnover with some of our distributors in the past that has impacted our short-term financial results while we transitioned to new distributors. Similar occurrences could happen in the future. We may require additional capital and failure to attract additional capital on acceptable terms could impair our growth. We may require additional capital to execute our strategies and expand our business. In particular, we depend on access to capital to acquire products and technologies that complement our existing product lines. If we complete an acquisition at a purchase price approaching or in excess of available capital resources, or if these resources are otherwise insufficient to fund our operations, we will require debt or equity financing. Equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to our stockholders. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt, this debt will be senior to our outstanding shares of capital stock upon our liquidation. The availability of 27 Table of Contents such financing depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we exert little control. Financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms satisfactory to us and could result in significant stockholder dilution. In addition, covenants in debt financing arrangements may restrict our ability to operate our business or obtain additional debt financing. These covenants may also require us to attain certain levels of financial performance and we may not be able to do so; any such failure may result in the acceleration of such debt and the foreclosure by our creditors on the collateral we used to secure the debt. We may also elect to raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing, marketing, or similar arrangements, and these arrangements may require us to relinquish valuable rights to our products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses that are not favorable to us. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to curtail our growth strategy by reducing or delaying capital expenditures and acquisitions, delaying or postponing our product development efforts, selling assets, restructuring our operations, or refinancing our indebtedness. From time to time we may become subject to tax audits or similar proceedings, and as a result we may owe additional taxes, interest, and penalties in amounts that may be material. We are subject to income taxes in many countries, jurisdictions, and provinces, including the United States. In determining our global provision for income taxes, we are required to exercise judgment. Regularly, we make estimates where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. While we believe our estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of any tax audit or tax-related litigation will not be materially different from that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In addition, we are subject to sales, use, and similar taxes in many countries, jurisdictions, and provinces, including those states in the United States where we maintain a physical presence or have a substantial nexus. These taxing regimes are complex. For example, in the United States, each state and local taxing authority has its own interpretation of what constitutes a sufficient physical presence or nexus to require the collection and remittance of these taxes. Similarly, each state and local taxing authority has its own rules regarding the applicability of sales tax by customer or product type. We employ a variety of strategies from time to time with respect to our international operations. There can be no assurance that these strategies will be accepted by the relevant taxing authorities. We have reviewed the tax positions taken, or to be taken, in our tax returns for all tax years currently open to examination by a taxing authority. As of December 31, 2011, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits, that is the reserve for uncertain tax positions, was approximately $329,000. The assessment of additional taxes, interest, and penalties as a result of audits, litigation, or otherwise, could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment Oversight of the medical device industry might affect the manner in which we may sell medical devices and compete in the marketplace. There are laws and regulations that govern the means by which companies in the healthcare industry may market their products to healthcare professionals and may compete by discounting the prices of their products, including for example, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal False Claims Act, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, state law equivalents to these federal laws that are meant to protect against fraud and abuse and analogous laws in foreign countries. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Although we exercise care in structuring our sales and marketing practices and customer discount arrangements to comply with those laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that: • government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing those laws will not assert that our sales and marketing practices or customer discount arrangements are in violation of those laws or regulations; or 28 Table of Contents • government regulators or courts will interpret those laws or regulations in a manner consistent with our interpretation. Correspondingly, federal and state laws are also sometimes open to interpretation, and from time to time we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage if our interpretation differs from that of our competitors. In January 2004, AdvaMed, the principal United States trade association for the medical device industry, put in place a model “code of conduct” that sets forth standards by which its members should abide in the promotion of their products. AdvaMed issued a revised “code of conduct” effective July 1, 2009. We have in place policies and procedures for compliance that we believe are at least as stringent as those set forth in the revised AdvaMed Code, and we provide routine training to our sales and marketing personnel on our policies regarding sales and marketing practices. Nevertheless, the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. For example, recent federal legislation and state legislation would require detailed disclosure of gifts and other remuneration made to health care professionals. In addition, prosecutorial scrutiny and governmental oversight, on the state and federal levels, over device companies regarding the retention of healthcare professionals as consultants has limited the manner in which medical device companies may retain healthcare professionals as consultants. Various hospital organizations, medical societies and trade associations are establishing their own practices that may require detailed disclosures of relationships between healthcare professionals and medical device companies or ban or restrict certain marketing and sales practices such as gifts and business meals. Our business is subject to complex, costly, and burdensome regulations. We could be subject to significant penalties if we fail to comply. The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. U.S. and foreign regulations applicable to medical devices are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, the testing, marketing, and premarket clearance or approval of new medical devices, in addition to regulating manufacturing practices, reporting, promotion and advertising, importing and exporting, labeling, and record-keeping procedures. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in governmental agencies or a court taking action, including any of the following: • issuing public warning letters to us; • imposing fines and penalties on us; • issuing an injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; • bringing civil or criminal charges against us; • delaying the introduction of our new products into the market; • ordering a recall of, or detaining or seizing, our products; or • withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. If any or all of the foregoing were to occur, our business, results of operations, and reputation could suffer. If we are not successful in obtaining and maintaining clearances and approvals from governmental agencies, we will not be able to sell our products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered. Our products require premarket clearance or approval in the United States and the CE Mark or other approvals in foreign countries where they are sold. Each medical device that we wish to market in the United States generally must receive either 510(k) clearance or approval of a premarket application, or PMA, from the 29 Table of Contents FDA before the product can be marketed or sold. Either process can be lengthy and expensive. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance procedure usually takes from three to twelve months from the date the FDA receives the application, but may take significantly longer. Although 510(k) clearances have been obtained for nearly all of our current products that require 510(k) clearances, the FDA may condition, limit or prohibit our sales of these products if safety or effectiveness problems develop with the devices. Our new products or significantly modified marketed products could be denied 510(k) clearance and required to undergo the more burdensome PMA approval process if they are not found to be substantially equivalent. The PMA approval process is much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain than the premarket notification process. It generally takes from six months to three years from the date the application is submitted to, and filed with, the FDA, and may take even longer. Achieving premarket approval typically requires extensive clinical trials and may require the filing of numerous amendments with the FDA over time. We do not have significant experience in obtaining PMA approval for our products. The FDA has proposed changes for which FDA clearance to market would possibly require clinical data, more extensive manufacturing information and postmarket data. The FDA is also proposing that an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility may be required for certain products prior to clearance of the 510(k), which is similar to the requirements of a Class III device. As part of the 510(k) reform, the FDA proposes to issue regulations defining grounds and procedures for rescission of 510(k) applications that have previously been cleared to market. The FDA may also require the more extensive PMA process for certain products. Our ability to market our products outside the United States is also subject to regulatory approval, including our ability to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products in the clinical setting. Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, the approval or clearance could limit the uses or the claims for which the product may be labeled and promoted, which may limit the market for our products. If we do not obtain and maintain foreign regulatory or FDA approval with respect to our products, as applicable, we will not be able to sell our products, and our future growth will be significantly hampered. Modifications to our marketed devices may require new regulatory clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified devices until clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change as specified by FDA guidelines, requires the submission of another 510(k) or PMA application to address the change. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or PMA. Although in the first instance we may determine that a change does not rise to a level of significance that would require us to make a submission, the FDA may review and disagree with our determination and can require us to submit a 510(k) or a PMA for a significant technological change or major change or modification in intended use. If the FDA requires us to submit a 510(k) or a PMA for any modification to a previously cleared device, we may be required to cease marketing the device, recall it, and not resume marketing until we obtain clearance or approval from the FDA for the modified version of the device. Delays in our receipt of regulatory clearance or approval will cause delays in our ability to sell our products, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, and prospects. Also, we may be subject to regulatory fines, penalties, and/or other sanctions authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. If we or some of our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and other applicable postmarket requirements, our manufacturing operations could be disrupted, our product sales and profitability could suffer, and we may become subject to a wide variety of FDA enforcement actions. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with all regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with any regulatory requirements, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions. 30 Table of Contents We and some of our suppliers must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which governs the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, control, quality assurance, installation, servicing, labeling, packaging, storage, and shipping of medical devices. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation through unannounced inspections. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. In December 2011 and January 2012, we underwent routine audits from our European Notified Body and the FDA, respectively. Although the results of these inspections were satisfactory, the timing and scope of future audits is unknown and it is possible, despite our belief that our quality systems and the operation of our manufacturing facilities will remain in compliance with U.S, and non-U.S. regulatory requirements, that a future audit may result in one or more unsatisfactory results. If we or one of our suppliers fails a Quality System Regulation inspection, or if a corrective action plan adopted by us or one of our suppliers is not sufficient, the FDA may bring an enforcement action against us, and our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. We are also subject to the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting our products for unapproved or off-label uses and to the medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or if our device malfunctions and a recurrence of the malfunction would likely result in a death or serious injury. We must also file reports with the FDA of some device corrections and removals, and we must adhere to the FDA’s rules on labeling and promotion. If we fail to comply with these or other FDA requirements or fail to take adequate corrective action in response to any significant compliance issue raised by the FDA, the FDA can take significant enforcement actions, which could harm our business, results of operations, and our reputation. In addition, most other countries, such as Japan, require us to comply with manufacturing and quality assurance standards for medical devices that are similar to those in force in the United States before marketing and selling our products in those countries. If we fail to comply, we would lose our ability to market and sell our products in those foreign countries. Even after receiving regulatory clearance or approval, our products may be subject to product recalls, which may harm our reputation and divert managerial and financial resources. The FDA and similar governmental authorities in other countries have the authority to order mandatory recall of our products or order their removal from the market if the governmental entity finds that our products would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including labeling defects. For example, we initiated voluntary recalls of two lots of our AlboGraft vascular graft in October 2011 and February 2012, respectively, in response to customer complaints of a manufacturing defect that compromised the safety of the product. There can be no assurance that these failures will not reoccur or that other problems will not develop in the future. Any future recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources. The adoption of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In March 2010, significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system were adopted in the form of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the PPACA). The PPACA includes provisions that, among other things, reduce and/or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose new and/or increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. While we are still evaluating the impact of this tax on our overall business, in 2011 this would have equated to an excise tax of approximately $0.9 million. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The PPACA and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. In addition, the excise tax will increase our cost of doing business. The impact of the PPACA and these proposals could harm our operating results and liquidity. 31 Table of Contents Domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our devices. Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable foreign programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical to the success of our products because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan, France and other countries may limit, reduce or eliminate reimbursement for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Even when we develop or acquire a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. For example, in an effort to decrease costs, certain hospitals and other customers may resterilize our products intended for a single use or purchase reprocessed products from third-party reprocessors in lieu of purchasing new products from us. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the United States and abroad, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of these systems in coverage or reimbursement, could significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or result in the denial of coverage for those procedures. Examples of these reforms or adverse decisions include price regulation, competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements. Any of such reforms or adverse decisions resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices or denials of coverage could have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. If we do not comply with foreign regulatory requirements to market our products outside the United States, our business will be harmed. Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. These requirements and the amount of time required for approval may differ from our experiences with the FDA in the United States. In some cases, we rely on our non-U.S. distributors to obtain premarket approvals, complete product registrations, comply with clinical trial requirements, and complete those steps that are customarily taken in the applicable jurisdictions to comply with governmental and quasi-governmental regulation. In the future, we expect to continue to rely on distributors in this manner in those countries where we continue to market and sell our products through them. Failure to satisfy these foreign regulations would impact our ability to sell our products in these countries and could cause our business to suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain the required regulatory approvals in these countries. Our products are regulated in the European Union under the European Medical Devices Directive (93/42/EC as amended by 2007/47/EC). In order to market our medical devices in the European Union, we are required to obtain CE mark certification, which denotes conformity to the essential requirements of the Medical Devices Directive. We have received CE mark certification to sell nearly all of our products. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a CE mark for new products in the future or for modifications to our existing products or in the manufacturing of our products, and obtaining a CE mark may involve a significant amount of time and expense, stringent clinical and preclinical testing, or modification of our products and could result in limitations being placed on the use of our products in order to obtain approval. 32 Table of Contents Maintaining a CE mark is contingent upon our continued compliance with applicable European medical device requirements, including limitations on advertising and promotion of medical devices and requirements governing the handling of adverse events. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining the CE mark for any of our current products. In particular, adverse event reporting requirements in the European Union mandate that we report incidents which led or could have led to death or serious deterioration in health. Under certain circumstances, we could be required to or could voluntarily initiate a recall or removal of our product from the market in order to address product deficiencies or malfunctions. For instance, we initiated voluntary recalls of two lots of our AlboGraft vascular graft in October 2011 and February 2012, respectively, in response to customer complaints of a manufacturing defect. Any recall of our products may harm our reputation with customers and divert managerial and financial resources. Failure to receive or maintain approval would prohibit us from selling these products in member countries of the European Union, and would require significant delays in obtaining individual country approvals. If we do not receive or maintain these approvals, our business could be harmed. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by European regulatory authorities and Notified Bodies, and we must demonstrate compliance with the Medical Devices Directive. Our most recent periodic inspection by our European Notified Body was in December 2011. Any failure by us to comply with European requirements in this regard may entail our taking corrective action, such as modification of our policies and procedures. In addition, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations for some period of time until we can demonstrate that appropriate steps have been taken. There can be no assurance that we will be found in compliance with such standards in future audits. In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (the MHLW) regulates medical devices through the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, which was reformed effective April 1, 2005. The revisions to Japanese regulations have resulted in longer lead times for product development. Any such delay in product registrations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Certain of our products contain materials derived from animal sources and may become subject to additional regulation. Our AlboGraft Vascular Graft, AlboSure Vascular Patch, and XenoSure Biologic Patch products contain bovine tissue or material derived from bovine tissue. Products that contain materials derived from animal sources, including food, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, are increasingly subject to scrutiny in the media and by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities are concerned about the potential for the transmission of disease from animals to humans via those materials. This public scrutiny has been particularly acute in Japan and Western Europe with respect to products derived from animal sources, because of concern that materials infected with the agent that causes bovine spongiform encephalopathy, otherwise known as BSE or mad cow disease, may, if ingested or implanted, cause a variant of the human Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, an ultimately fatal disease with no known cure. Cases of BSE in cattle discovered in Canada and the United States have increased awareness of the issue in North America. Certain countries, such as Japan, have issued regulations that require our products be processed from bovine tissue sourced from countries where no cases of BSE have occurred. Products that contain materials derived from animals, including our products, may become subject to additional regulation, or even be banned in certain countries, because of concern over the potential for the transmission of infections agents. Significant new regulation, or a ban of our products, could impair our current business or our ability to expand our business. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability. Our manufacturing operations and our research and development programs involve the use of hazardous substances and are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations relating to 33 Table of Contents the storage, use, discharge, disposal, and remediation of, and human exposure to, hazardous substances. Our research and development and manufacturing operations produce biological waste materials, such as human and animal tissue, and waste solvents, such as isopropyl alcohol. Regulatory authorities permit these operations, and the resulting waste materials are disposed of in material compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive, and non-compliance could result in substantial liabilities, which could exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, our manufacturing operations may result in the release, discharge, emission, or disposal of hazardous substances that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, including costs for investigation and remediation. We cannot assure you that violations of these laws and regulations will not occur in the future or have not occurred in the past as a result of human error, accidents, equipment failure, or other causes. The expense associated with environmental regulation and remediation could harm our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, or prevent use of our intellectual property by third parties, we could lose a significant competitive advantage and our business may suffer. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our patents, trademarks, and other proprietary rights, and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property. We rely upon patent, trade secret, copyright, know-how, and trademark laws, as well as license agreements and contractual provisions, to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These measures may only afford limited protection and may not: • prevent our competitors from duplicating our products; • prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology; or • permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain in the future might also be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In addition, our pending patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not provide commercially meaningful protection, as competitors may be able to design around our patents to produce alternative, non-infringing designs. Should such challenges to our patents be successful, competitors might be able to market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to ours. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. We have a policy of requiring key employees and consultants and corporate partners with access to trade secrets or other confidential information to execute confidentiality agreements. Our confidentiality agreements also require our employees to assign to us all rights to any inventions made or conceived during their employment with us. We also generally require our consultants to assign to us any inventions made during the course of their engagement by us. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for us in the event of unauthorized use, transfer, or disclosure of confidential information or inventions. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights effectively or to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products, or services and our competitors could commercialize similar technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share. 34 Table of Contents If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs, and we may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights, and we cannot assure you that our products or methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property; • harm our reputation; • cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products, which may not be possible and could be costly and time consuming if it is possible to do so at all; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, which agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all; • divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business; or • result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. It is also possible that one of our competitors could claim that our manufacturing process violates an existing patent. If we were unsuccessful in defending such a claim, we may be forced to stop production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product’s continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. If our business is successful, the possibility may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us. If we believe our product is or may be the subject of a patent with a third party, we attempt to reach a license agreement with them to manufacture, market, and sell these products. If we fail to reach an agreement with a third party patent holder that covers a product we offer, we could be required to pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property and may be forced to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. In addition, we may become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the United States Patent Office or opposition proceedings conducted in foreign patent offices challenging the priority of invention or the validity of our patents. For example, in 2005 and 2006, respectively, Boston Scientific Corporation initiated opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office claiming that we were not the first to file a patent application on certain material. As a result of these opposition proceedings, some of our patent claims were canceled. 35 Table of Contents We may become involved in lawsuits and administrative proceedings to protect, defend, or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation or interference or opposition proceedings against third parties in the United States or in foreign countries. The defense of intellectual property rights, including patent rights through lawsuits, interference, or opposition proceedings, and other legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and can divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Such costs increase our operating expenses and reduce our resources available for development activities. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation and despite protective orders entered by the court, confidential information may be inadvertently disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions, or study testimony. This disclosure could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. If we fail to observe the terms of our agreements or fail to reach agreement with third-party patent holders, we may lose the ability to manufacture, market, or sell some of our products. Certain aspects of our products are or may be the subject of patents held by third parties. If we believe our product is or may be the subject of a patent with a third party, we attempt to reach a license agreement with them to manufacture, market, and sell these products. These arrangements do or may require us to pay royalties, typically determined as a percentage of our net sales for the underlying product. If we fail to reach agreement with a third party patent holder that covers a product we offer, we could be required to pay significant damages to third parties for past use of the asserted intellectual property and may be forced to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. Further, if we enter into a license agreement regarding a third party patent, but we fail to make these payments or otherwise fail to observe the terms of these agreements, we may lose our ability to sell these products. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities that is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, a low volume of trading in our common stock, and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; • public concern as to the safety or efficacy of our products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • our determination whether or not to continue the payment of quarterly cash dividends; 36 Table of Contents • our determination whether or not to continue our share repurchase program; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • our inability to raise additional capital; • changes in financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, and responses to such events; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles; • light volume of trades of our common stock; • the discontinuation of a product line or other revenue generating activity, such as our stent grafts; • adverse regulatory actions which may necessitate recalls of our products or warning letters that negatively affect the markets for our products; • sales of common stock by us or our directors, officers, or principal stockholders; • our relatively small public float; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies, or our industry generally. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our business. Our directors, officers, and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Our directors, officers, and affiliated stockholders holding more than 5% of our common stock collectively control almost a majority of our outstanding common stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, would be able to control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, might adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Future acquisitions that we make may be dilutive to our current stockholders. We intend to pursue the acquisition of complementary products, technologies, or businesses, and in connection with these acquisitions we may use substantial portions of our available cash or make dilutive issuances of securities. In addition, an acquisition could impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to recognize acquisition expenses or amortize, depreciate, or impair acquired assets. This debt would be senior to our outstanding shares of capital stock upon our liquidation. 37 Table of Contents Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the division of our board of directors into three classes; • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or due to the resignation or departure of an existing board member; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for the advance notice of nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of our common stock; • the elimination of the rights of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • the required approval of at least 75% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the inability of stockholders to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; and • the required approval of at least 75% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors with cause. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to common stockholders in the future. In February 2011, our Board of Directors adopted a quarterly dividend program for the purpose of returning capital to our stockholders. However, we have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents we file from time to time with the SEC. Future dividends, if any, will be authorized by our Board of Directors and declared by us based upon a variety of factors deemed relevant by our directors, including, among other things, our financial condition, liquidity, earnings projections and business prospects. In addition, financial covenants in any credit facility to which we become a party may restrict our ability to pay future quarterly dividends. We can provide no assurance of our ability to pay dividends in the future. 38 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors may decide not to continue our share repurchase program. In July 2009, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 million of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. In October 2009, our Board of Directors increased this amount to $2.0 million, and in July 2010, our Board of Directors further increased this amount to $5.0 million. In November 2011, our Board of Directors further increased this amount to $10.0 million and extended the program through December 31, 2013. The timing and number of any shares repurchased will be determined based on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. Repurchases may also be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan, which would permit shares to be repurchased when we might otherwise be precluded from doing so under insider trading laws. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time and will conclude no later than December 31, 2013, unless otherwise extended by our Board of Directors. If the Board of Directors withdraws authority for our share repurchase program, our stock price may be negatively affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 