Risk factors Our businesses are exposed to a variety of risks that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, including, among others, those described below. Liquidity risk Our liquidity could be impaired if we were unable to access the capital markets or sell our assets Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our businesses, particularly our investment banking business, which depend on continuous access to the debt capital and money markets to finance day-to-day operations. An inability to obtain financing in the unsecured long-term or short-term debt capital markets, or to access the secured lending markets, could have a substantial adverse effect on our liquidity. In a time of reduced liquidity, we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may need to sell assets at depressed prices, which in either case could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses may face asset-liability mismatches Our businesses meet most of their funding requirements using short-term funding sources, including primarily deposits, inter-bank loans, time deposits and cash bonds. However, we have assets with medium- or long-term maturities, creating a potential for funding mismatches. Although a substantial number of depositors have, in the past, rolled over their deposited funds upon maturity and deposits have been, over time, a stable source of funding, this may not continue to occur. In that case, our liquidity position could be adversely affected and we might be unable to meet deposit withdrawals on demand or at their contractual maturity, to repay borrowings as they mature or to fund new loans, investments and businesses. For further information on the assets and liabilities of our banking businesses, see Item 5 “Operating and financial review and prospects – Information required by Industry Guide 3 – Selected s tatistical information – Investment portfolios – Deposits and – Short-term borrowings.” Changes in our ratings may adversely affect our business Reductions in our assigned ratings, including in particular our credit ratings, could increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to capital markets and adversely affect the ability of our businesses to sell or market their products, engage in business transactions – particularly longer-term and derivatives transactions – and retain our customers. Ratings are assigned by rating agencies, which may reduce, indicate their intention to reduce or withdraw the ratings at any time. For more information on our credit ratings, see Item 5 “Operating and financial review and prospects – Liquidity and capital resources.” Market risk We may incur significant losses on our trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility We maintain large trading and investment positions and hedges in the debt, currency, commodity and equity markets, and in private equity, real estate and other assets. These positions could be adversely affected by volatility in financial and other markets, that is, the degree to which prices fluctuate over a particular period in a particular market, regardless of market levels. To the extent that we own assets, or have net long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of our net long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets that we do not own, or have net short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially significant losses as we attempt to cover our net short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. Our exposure to commodity price risk increased in 2006 as we expanded our commodities business, particularly energy trading, in our investment banking business. We have risk management techniques and policies designed to manage our market risk. These techniques and policies, however, may not always be effective, particularly in highly volatile markets. For information on management of market risk, see “Risk management – Market risk” in the Credit Suisse Group Annual Report 2006. Adverse market or economic conditions or trends may cause a decline in net revenues As a global financial services company, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally in Europe, the United States and elsewhere around the world. Adverse market or economic conditions could create a challenging operating environment for financial services companies. In particular, the impact of oil prices, interest rates and the risk of geopolitical events could materially affect financial markets and the economy. Movements in interest rates could affect our net interest income and the value of our trading and non-trading fixed income portfolios, and movements in equity markets could affect the value of our trading and non-trading equity portfolios. Future terrorist attacks, military conflicts and economic or political sanctions could have a material adverse effect on economic and market conditions, market volatility and financial activity. Adverse market or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of investment banking transactions in which we provide underwriting, mergers and acquisitions advice or other services and, therefore, adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting fees. Such conditions could also lead to a decline in the volume of securities trades that we execute for customers and, therefore, adversely affect the net revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. Underwritten transactions often have multiple managers and book runners instead of a lead manager and single book runner, and this trend has adversely affected our underwriting revenues. Unfavorable market or economic conditions could affect our wealth management, corporate and retail banking and asset management businesses by reducing sales of our investment products and the volume of our asset management activities. In addition, a market downturn could reduce our commission and fee income that is based on the value of our clients’ portfolios. Adverse market or economic conditions could negatively affect our private equity investments since, if a private equity investment substantially declines in value, we may not receive any increased share of the income and gains from such investment (to which we are entitled in certain cases when the return on such investment exceeds certain threshold returns), may be obligated to return to investors previously received excess carried interest payments and may lose our pro rata share of the capital invested. In addition, it could become more difficult to dispose of the investment, as even investments that are performing well may prove difficult to exit in weak initial public offering markets. In addition, we are exposed to market risk through our proprietary investments in hedge funds. An investment performance that is below that of competitors or asset management benchmarks could result in a decline in assets under management and related fees and make it harder to attract new clients. We may incur significant losses in the real estate sector We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products, both for our own account and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets, and originate loans, including sub-prime loans, secured by commercial and residential properties. We also securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages, and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. These businesses could be adversely affected by a downturn in the real estate sector or the economy as a whole. Our revenues may decline in line with declines in certain sectors or products Decreasing economic growth in a sector, such as the technology and telecommunications sectors, in which we make significant commitments, for example, through underwriting or advisory services, could negatively affect net revenues of our investment banking business. In addition, a significant portion of the net revenues of our investment banking business in 2006 was derived from fixed income trading and leveraged finance, driven in large part by financial sponsors. A decline in leveraged finance or financial sponsor activity could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to large losses Concentrations of risk could increase losses at our wealth management, corporate and retail banking and investment banking businesses, which may have sizeable loans to and securities holdings in certain customers or industries, including the financial services industry. Risk concentration may cause us to suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. We maintain a system of risk limits designed to control concentration risks. These controls, however, may not always be effective. Our hedging strategies may not prevent losses If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we use to hedge our exposure to various types of risk in our businesses is not effective, we may incur losses. We may only be partially hedged, or these strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. In addition, gains and losses resulting from certain ineffective hedges may result in volatility in our reported earnings. Market risk may increase the other risks that we face In addition to the potentially adverse effects on our businesses described above, market risk could exacerbate the other risks that we face. For example, if we were to incur substantial trading losses, our need for liquidity could rise sharply while access to liquidity could be impaired. In conjunction with a market downturn, our customers and counterparties could also incur substantial losses of their own, thereby weakening their financial condition and increasing our credit risk to them. Credit risk We may suffer significant losses from our credit exposures Our businesses are subject to the risk that borrowers and other counterparties will be unable to perform their obligations. Credit exposures exist within lending relationships, commitments and letters of credit, as well as derivative, foreign exchange and other transactions. For information on management of credit risk, see “Risk management – Credit risk” in the Credit Suisse Group Annual Report 2006. Our businesses establish provisions for loan losses at a level deemed appropriate by management. Management’s determination of the provision for loan losses is subject to significant judgment, and our banking businesses may need to increase their provisions for loan losses or may record losses in excess of the previously determined provisions if our original estimates of loss prove inadequate and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For information on provisions for loan losses and related risk mitigation, see Item 5 “Operating and financial review and prospects – Critical accounting policies – Contingencies and loss provisions” and “Risk management – Credit risk” in the Credit Suisse Group Annual Report 2006. In recent years, our investment banking business has significantly expanded its use of swaps and other derivatives. As a result, our credit exposures have increased and may continue to increase in amount and duration. In addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to assume longer-term credit risk, to extend credit against less liquid collateral and to price derivative instruments more aggressively based on the credit risks that we take. Our investments in, or loans to, hedge funds, which have significant pools of capital but are unregulated, are an additional source of credit exposure. An increase in our investment bank’s provisions for credit losses, or any credit losses in excess of related provisions, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Defaults by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally and us specifically Concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions because the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between institutions. This risk is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearinghouses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with which we interact on a daily basis, and could adversely affect us. The information that we use to manage our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit or trading risks of a counterparty. Cross border and foreign exchange risk Cross border risks may increase market and credit risks we face Country, regional and political risks are components of market and credit risk. Financial markets and economic conditions generally have been and may be materially affected by such risks. Economic or political pressures in a country or region, including those arising from local market disruptions, currency crises and monetary controls, may adversely affect the ability of clients or counterparties located in that country or region to obtain foreign currency or credit and, therefore, to perform their obligations to us, which in turn may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We may face significant losses in emerging markets As a global financial services company and industry leader in emerging markets, we are exposed to economic instability in emerging market countries. We monitor these risks, seek diversity in the sectors in which we invest and emphasize customer-driven business. Our efforts at containing emerging market risk, however, may not always succeed. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates for currencies. In particular, a substantial portion of our assets and liabilities in our investment banking and asset management businesses are denominated in currencies other than the Swiss franc, which is the primary currency of our financial reporting. Our capital is also stated in Swiss francs and we do not fully hedge our capital position against changes in currency exchange rates. Exchange rate volatility may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and capital position. Operational risk We are exposed to a wide variety of operational risks, particularly information technology risk Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. In general, our businesses face a wide variety of operational risks, including technology risk that stems from dependencies on information technology and the telecommunications infrastructure and business disruption, including the infrastructure supporting our businesses and/or the areas where our businesses or third-party suppliers are situated. As a global financial services company, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems, which are varied and complex. If any of these systems does not operate properly or is disabled, including as a result of terrorist attacks or other unforeseeable events, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to our clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We may suffer losses due to employee misconduct Our businesses are exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not always be effective. Legal and regulatory risks Our exposure to legal liability is significant We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation, regulatory proceedings and other adversarial proceedings against financial services firms are increasing. We and our subsidiaries are subject to a number of material legal proceedings, regulatory actions and investigations, and an adverse result in one or more of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon our results for such period. For information relating to these and other legal and regulatory proceedings involving our investment banking and other businesses, see Item 8 “Financial information – Legal proceedings.” It is inherently difficult to predict the outcome of many of the legal, regulatory and other adversarial proceedings involving our businesses, particularly those cases in which the matters are brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, seek damages of unspecified or indeterminate amounts or involve novel legal claims. For information on management’s judgments in relation to estimating losses and taking charges for legal, regulatory and arbitration proceedings, see Item 5 “Operating and financial review and prospects – Critical accounting policies – Contingencies and loss provisions - Litigation contingencies.” Failure to comply with extensive regulation of our businesses may subject us to significant penalties and may seriously harm our reputation As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities, and self-regulatory organizations in Switzerland, Europe, the United States and virtually all other jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Such regulation is becoming increasingly more extensive and complex. These regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements, and restrictions on the businesses in which we may operate or invest. In recent years, a major focus of international policy and regulation has been on combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Applicable regulations impose obligations to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing, including verifying the identity of customers. Failure of the Group and its subsidiaries to implement and maintain adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences. Despite our best efforts to comply with applicable regulations, there are a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear or where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings. Authorities in many jurisdictions have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result in, among other things, suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and seriously harm our reputation. Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement, may adversely affect our results of operations and capital requirements. For a description of our regulatory regime and capital requirements, see Item 4 “Information on the company – Regulation and supervision.” Legal restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our services We may be materially affected not only by regulations applicable to us as a financial services company, but also by regulations of general application. For example, the volume of our businesses in any one year could be affected by, among other things, existing and proposed tax legislation, antitrust and competition policies, corporate governance initiatives and other governmental regulations and policies and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect business and the financial markets. Competition We face increased competition due to consolidation and new entrants We face intense competition in all financial services markets and for the products and services we offer. Consolidation, through mergers and acquisitions, alliances and cooperation, is increasing competition. Competition is based on many factors, including the products and services offered, pricing, distribution systems, customer service, brand recognition, perceived financial strength and the willingness to use capital to serve client needs. Consolidation has created a number of firms that, like us, have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans and deposit-taking to brokerage, investment banking and asset management services. Some of these firms may be able to offer a broader range of products than we do, or offer such products at more competitive prices. In addition, new lower-cost competitors may enter the market and those competitors may not be subject to capital or regulatory requirements and may be a ble to offer their products and services on more favorable terms. Our competitive position could be harmed if our reputation is damaged In the highly competitive environment arising from globalization and convergence in the financial services industry, a reputation for financial strength and integrity is critical to our ability to attract and maintain customers. Our reputation could be harmed if our comprehensive procedures and controls fail, or appear to fail, to address conflicts of interest as we increase our client base and the scale of our businesses, prevent employee misconduct, produce materially accurate and complete financial and other information or prevent adverse legal or regulatory actions. We must recruit and retain highly skilled employees Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified employees is intense. We have devoted considerable resources to recruiting, training and compensating employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. We face competition from new trading technologies Our investment banking, private banking and asset management businesses face competitive challenges from new trading technologies. Securities and futures transactions are now being conducted through the Internet and other alternative, non-traditional trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. A dramatic increase in computer-based or other electronic trading may adversely affect our commission and trading revenues, exclude our businesses from certain transaction flows, reduce our participation in the trading markets and the associated access to market information and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. We may also be required to make additional expenditures to develop or invest in new trading systems or otherwise to invest in technology to maintain our competitive position. Financial services businesses that we acquire or joint ventures we undertake may not perform well or may prove difficult to integrate into our existing operations Even though we review the records of companies we plan to acquire, it is generally not feasible for us to review in detail all such records. Even an in-depth review of records may not reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to assess fully its capabilities and deficiencies. As a result, we may assume unanticipated liabilities, or an acquisition may not perform as well as expected. We also face the risk that we will not be able to integrate acquisitions into our existing operations effectively as a result of, among other things, differing procedures, business practices and technology systems, as well as difficulties in adapting an acquired company into our organizational structure. We face the risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures or indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses or the capital expenditures needed to develop such busine sses. In addition, in recent years we have undertaken a number of new joint ventures and strategic alliances. Although we endeavor to identify appropriate partners, our joint venture efforts may prove unsuccessful or may not justify the capital we invest. Moreover, if we fail to identify attractive businesses to acquire, or joint venture opportunities, we may be unable to expand our businesses as quickly or successfully as our competitors, which could adversely affect our results of operations and reputation. 