ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: Risks Related To Our Operations We are dependent on our code-share relationships with our Partners. We depend on relationships created by our regional jet fixed-fee code-share agreements with American, Continental, Delta, United and US Airways for all of our fixed-fee service revenues. Any material modification to, or termination of, our code-share agreements with any of these Partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of our operations and the price of our common stock. Each of the code-share agreements contains a number of grounds for termination by our Partners, including our failure to meet specified performance levels. In addition, American may terminate its code-share agreement without cause upon 180 days notice, provided such notice may not be given prior to September 30, 2011. If American terminates its code-share agreement for cause, it has the right to require us to assign to them our leases of all E140 aircraft then operating under the code-share agreement or to lease such aircraft to them to the extent we own them. If American terminates our code-share agreement other than for cause, we have the right to require American to assume our leases of all E140 aircraft then operating under the code-share agreement, or to lease such jets from us to the extent we own them. Delta may partially or completely terminate its code-share agreement with respect to the E145 aircraft, with or without cause, on 180 days written notice at any time after November 2009, and may partially or completely terminate its code-share agreement with respect to the E170 aircraft, with or without cause, on 180 days written notice at any time after July 2015. If Delta exercises this right under either agreement or if we terminate either agreement for cause, we have the right to require Delta either to purchase, sublease or assume the lease of aircraft leased by us with respect to any of the aircraft we previously operated for Delta under that agreement. If we choose not to exercise this right, or if Delta terminates either agreement for cause, Delta may require us to sell or sublease to it or Delta may assume the lease of aircraft leased by us with respect to any of the aircraft we previously operated for it under that agreement. If we wrongfully terminate our United code-share agreement, breach certain provisions thereof or fall below certain minimum operating thresholds for three consecutive months or any six month period in a rolling 12 month period, United can assume our ownership or leasehold interests in the aircraft we operate for them. Continental may terminate its code-share agreement with cause or if we breach certain provisions thereof including a breach of our guaranty granted to it. In addition, because all of our fixed-fee service revenues are currently generated under the code-share agreements, if any one of them is terminated, our operating revenues and net income will be materially adversely affected unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements or, alternatively, utilize those aircraft in our branded operations, including obtaining the airport facilities and gates necessary to do so. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into substitute code-share arrangements, that any such substitute arrangements would be as favorable to us as the current code-share agreements or that we could successfully utilize those aircraft in our branded operations. The ability to realize fully the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Midwest and Frontier may depend on the successful integration of the businesses of Republic, Midwest, and Frontier. Our acquisition of Midwest and Frontier involved the combination of three companies which operated as independent private and public companies prior to the acquisitions. We are devoting significant attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations in order to achieve the benefits of the acquisitions, including expected synergies. If we are unable to integrate our business practices and operations in a manner that allows us to achieve the anticipated revenue and cost synergies, or if achievement of such synergies takes longer or costs more than expected, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. 15 We may be unable to redeploy smaller aircraft removed from service. Certain of our Partners have indicated a desire to schedule fewer 50 seat aircraft. To the extent that we agree to remove an E140/145 aircraft from service, we must either sell or sublease the aircraft to another party or redeploy it in order to cover our carrying expenses for that aircraft. Our inability to sell, sublease and/or redeploy aircraft that have been removed from service could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. If the financial strength of any of our Partners decreases, our financial strength is at risk. We are directly affected by the financial and operating strength of the Partners in our fixed-fee regional airline code-share business. In the event of a decrease in the financial or operational strength of any of our Partners, such partner may be unable to make the payments due to us under its code-share agreement. In addition, it may reduce utilization of our aircraft to the minimum levels specified in the code-share agreements and, it is possible that any code-share agreement with a code-share partner that files for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code may not be assumed in bankruptcy and could be modified or terminated. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our operations and the price of our common stock. As of February 19, 2010, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, respectively, maintained ratings of B- and Caa1 for US Airways, B- and Caa1 for AMR Corp., the parent of American, B and B2 for Delta, B- and Caa1 for UAL Corp., the parent of United, and B and B2 for Continental. Our Partners may expand their direct operation of aircraft thus limiting the expansion of our relationships with them. We depend on major airlines such as our Partners to contract with us instead of purchasing and operating their own aircraft. However, some major airlines own their own regional airlines and operate their own aircraft instead of entering into contracts with us or other regional carriers. For example, American and Delta have acquired many aircraft which they fly under their affiliated carriers, American Eagle, with respect to American, and Comair, with respect to Delta. In addition, US Airways is operating aircraft through its PSA subsidiary. We have no guarantee that in the future our Partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of purchasing their own aircraft or entering into relationships with competing regional airlines. They are not prohibited from doing so under our code-share agreements. In addition, US Airways previously announced that, pursuant to an agreement with its pilots, US Airways will not enter into agreements with its regional affiliates to fly E190 and higher capacity aircraft and it is possible that our other partners will make the same decision. A decision by US Airways, American, Delta, United, or Continental to phase out our contract based code-share relationships as they expire and instead acquire and operate their own aircraft or to enter into similar agreements with one or more of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Any labor disruption or labor strikes by our employees or those of our Partners would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. All of our pilots, customer service employees, flight attendants and dispatchers are represented by unions. Collectively, these employees represent approximately 45% of our workforce as of December 31, 2009. Although we have never had a work interruption or stoppage and believe our relations with our unionized employees are generally good, we are subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or may incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on the amended terms of their collective bargaining agreements, we may be subject to work interruptions and/or stoppages. Any sustained work stoppages could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations under our code-share agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Under the terms of our jet code-share agreement with US Airways, if we are unable to provide scheduled flights as a result of a strike by our employees, it is only required to pay us for certain fixed costs for specified periods. Under the terms of the code-share agreements with the remainder of our Partners, none of them are required to pay us any amounts during the period our employees are on strike and we are unable to provide scheduled flights. A sustained strike by our employees would require us to bear costs otherwise paid by our Partners. In addition, a labor disruption other than a union authorized strike may cause us to be in material breach of our code-share agreements, all of which require us to meet specified flight completion levels during specified periods. Our Partners have the right to terminate their code-share agreements if we fail to meet these completion levels. Our Partners may be restricted in increasing the level of business that they conduct with us, thereby limiting our growth. In general, the pilots' unions of certain major airlines have negotiated collective bargaining agreements that restrict the number and/or size of regional aircraft that a particular carrier may operate. A "scope" clause in US Airways' current collective bargaining agreement with its pilots prevents US Airways from using more than 465 aircraft not flown by its pilots in its operations. There are no quantity limitations in the US Airways "scope" limitations for small aircraft. For purposes of this "scope" restriction, a small regional jet is defined as any aircraft configured with 78 or fewer seats. For purposes of this limitation, a large regional jet is an aircraft configured with 79 to 90 passenger seats. US Airways can outsource up to an additional 55 aircraft, including the E175 and C900, configured with more than 78 seats but less than 90 seats, subject to certain limitations. We cannot assure you that US Airways will contract with us to fly any additional aircraft. Our pilots union limited their approval to 80 additional aircraft for US Airways, which includes the 20 E170s and 38 E175s we currently operate for US Airways. A "scope" clause in American's current collective bargaining agreement with its pilots limits it from operating aircraft having 51 or more seats. A "scope" clause in Delta's current collective bargaining agreement with its pilots restricts it from operating aircraft having more than 70 to 76 seats and limits it from operating more than 175, or under certain circumstances, 200 aircraft having 70 to 76 seats. United's "scope" limitations restrict it from operating aircraft configured with more than 70 seats or any aircraft weighing more than 83,000 pounds. Continental's "scope" limitations restrict it from operating aircraft configured with more than 51 seats. 16 American's "scope" limitations further limit its partners, in our case Chautauqua, from operating aircraft with 51 or more seats even for partners other than American. Delta's "scope" limitations restrict its partners from operating aircraft with over 76 seats even if those aircraft are operated for an airline other than Delta. Neither US Airways, United nor Continental has similar "scope" limits on the size of aircraft we can operate for our other Partners. We cannot assure you that these "scope" clauses will not become more restrictive in the future. Any additional limit on the number of aircraft we can fly for our Partners could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and the price of our common stock. We have significant debt and off-balance sheet obligations and any inability to pay would adversely impact our operations. The airline business is very capital intensive and, as a result, many airline companies are highly leveraged. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, our mandatory debt service payments totaled $278.3 million and $274.6 million, respectively, and our mandatory lease payments totaled $194.3 million and $137.6 million, respectively. We have significant lease obligations with respect to our aircraft, which aggregated approximately $1.6 billion and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Airbus’ current aggregate list price for the eight A320 aircraft on firm order is $349 million. We expect to acquire on credit a substantial portion of this value which will increase our mandatory lease and debt service payments. We have a significant amount of variable interest rate debt. Approximately $506.8 million of our debt as of December 31, 2009 is subject to variable market interest rates. If rates increase significantly, our results and cash flows could be adversely impacted. None of our debt was variable as of December 31, 2008. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to make such payments or that we will be able to obtain financing to acquire the additional aircraft or make other capital expenditures necessary for our expansion. If we default under our loan or lease agreements, the lender/lessor has available extensive remedies, including, without limitation, repossession of the respective aircraft and other assets and, in the case of large creditors, the effective ability to exert control over how we allocate a significant portion of our revenues. Even if we are able to timely service our debt, the size of our long-term debt and lease obligations could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock in many ways, including: · increasing the cost, or limiting the availability of, additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes; · limiting the ways in which we can use our cash flow, much of which may have to be used to satisfy debt and lease obligations; and · adversely affecting our ability to respond to changing business or economic conditions. We may be unable to continue to comply with financial covenants in certain financing agreements, which, if not complied with, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We are required to comply with certain financial covenants under certain of our financing arrangements. We are required to maintain a certain level of minimum unrestricted cash and maintain certain cash flow and working capital covenants. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all our covenants, however, we believe it is probable that we will be unable to comply with certain of these covenants during 2010. We are currently in discussions to renegotiate these covenants, however, our ability to renegotiate or obtain a waiver of, or otherwise mitigate, the impact of a default, could potentially provide for the accelerated repayment of principal totaling approximately $25 million and the discontinuation of the monthly pre-purchase of airline miles from our affinity card provider, which totals approximately $2.9 million per month. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate the covenants, of which there can be no assurance or if a default were to occur and we were unable to obtain a waiver, or otherwise mitigate the impact of a default, our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We currently depend on Embraer and Airbus to support our fleet of jet aircraft. We rely on Embraer as the manufacturer of substantially all of our regional jets and on Airbus as the manufacturer of our narrow-body jets. Our risks in relying primarily on a single manufacturer for each aircraft type include: · the failure or inability of Embraer or Airbus to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis; · the interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for these aircraft; · the issuance of FAA directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Embraer or Airbus aircraft or requiring time-consuming inspections and maintenance; and 17 · the adverse public perception of a manufacturer as a result of an accident or other adverse publicity. Our operations could be materially adversely affected by the failure or inability of Embraer, Airbus or any key component manufacturers to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis or by an interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for our aircraft. Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under the fixed-fee agreements would adversely impact our revenues, earnings and liquidity. Our agreements with our Partners require each of them to schedule our aircraft to a minimum level of utilization. However, the aircraft have historically been utilized more than the minimum requirement. Even though the fixed-fee rates may adjust, either up or down, based on scheduled utilization levels or require a fixed amount per day to compensate us for our fixed costs, if our aircraft are at or below the minimum requirement (including taking into account the stage length and frequency of our scheduled flights) we will likely lose both the opportunity to recover a margin on the variable costs of flights that would have been flown if our aircraft were more fully utilized and the opportunity to earn incentive compensation on such flights. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, will directly impact our earnings. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs, and we have experienced pressure to increase wages and benefits for our employees. Under our code-share agreements, our reimbursement rates contemplate labor costs that increase on a set schedule generally tied to an increase in the consumer price index or the actual increase in the contract. We are entirely responsible for our labor costs, and we may not be entitled to receive increased payments for our flights if our labor costs increase above the assumed costs included in the reimbursement rates. As a result, a significant increase in our labor costs above the levels assumed in our reimbursement rates could result in a material reduction in our earnings. We have collective bargaining agreements with our pilots, flight attendants, dispatchers, mechanics, material specialists and aircraft appearance agents. We cannot assure you that future agreements with our employees’ unions will be on terms in line with our expectations or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors, and any future agreements may increase our labor costs and reduce both our income and our competitiveness for future business opportunities. Our credit card processors have the ability to increase their holdbacks in certain circumstances. The initiation of such holdbacks likely would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. In our branded business, most of the tickets we sell are paid for by customers who use credit cards. Our credit card processing agreements provide 100% holdback of receivables. If circumstances were to occur that would allow our processor to increase their holdbacks, the negative impact on our liquidity likely would be material. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Bryan Bedford, and our other key management and operating personnel. American can terminate its code-share agreement if we replace Mr. Bedford without its consent, which cannot be unreasonably withheld. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. We maintain a “key man” life insurance policy in the amount of $10 million for Mr. Bedford, but this amount may not adequately compensate us in the event we lose his services. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. The airline industry has from time to time experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we have, from time to time, faced considerable turnover of our employees. Although our employee turnover has decreased significantly since September 11, 2001, our regional jet pilots, flight attendants and maintenance technicians sometimes leave to work for larger airlines, which generally offer higher salaries and more extensive benefit programs than regional airlines are financially able to offer. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, the result will be significantly higher training costs than otherwise would be necessary. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to carry out our expansion plans or to replace departing employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to complete our expansion plans, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. 18 Our acquisition of Midwest and Frontier affects the comparability of our historical financial results. On July 31, 2009, the Company acquired Midwest and on October 1, 2009 the Company acquired Frontier upon its emergence from bankruptcy. While our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2009 include the results of Midwest for five months and Frontier for three months, the results for the year ended December 31, 2008 and all prior periods do not. None of our historical financial statements include Frontier’s results. This complicates your ability to compare our results of operations and financial condition for periods that include Midwest’s and Frontier’s results with periods that do not. We are vulnerable to increases in aircraft fuel costs. High oil prices may have a significant adverse impact on the future results of operations. We cannot predict the future cost and availability of fuel, or the impact of disruptions in oil supplies or refinery productivity based on natural disasters, which would affect our ability to compete. The unavailability of adequate fuel supplies could have an adverse effect on our Midwest and Frontier operations. In addition, larger airlines may have a competitive advantage because they pay lower prices for fuel, and other airlines, such as Southwest Airlines, may have substantial fuel hedges that give them a competitive advantage. Because fuel costs are now a significant portion of our operating costs, substantial changes in fuel costs can materially affect our operating results. Fuel prices continue to be susceptible to, among other factors, speculative trading in the commodities market, political unrest in various parts of the world, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries policy, the rapid growth of economies in China and India, the levels of inventory carried by the oil companies, the amounts of reserves built by governments, refining capacity, and weather. These and other factors that impact the global supply and demand for aircraft fuel may affect our financial performance due to its high sensitivity to fuel prices. A one-cent change in the cost of each gallon of fuel would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $2.4 million per year based on our current fleet and aircraft fuel consumption. Since the acquisitions of Midwest and Frontier, fuel has become a major component of our operating expenses, accounting for 21.2% of our total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009, on a pro forma basis, giving effect to the acquisitions on January 1, 2009. Our ability to pass on increased fuel costs has been and may continue to be limited by economic and competitive conditions. Midwest and Frontier depend heavily on the Milwaukee and Denver markets to be successful. Our business strategy for Midwest and Frontier is focused on adding flights to and from our Milwaukee and Denver bases of operations. Currently, 95% of our flights originate or depart from General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, known as MKE, and Denver International Airport, known as DIA (this does not include seasonal non-hub flying to Mexico). A reduction in our share of either market, increased competition, or reduced passenger traffic to or from Milwaukee or Denver could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our dependence on a hub system operating out of DIA makes us more susceptible to adverse weather conditions and other traffic delays in the Rocky Mountain region than some of our competitors that may be better able to spread these traffic risks over larger route networks. We face intense competition by United Airlines, Southwest Airlines and other airlines at DIA and by AirTran Airways, Southwest Airlines, and Delta Airlines at MKE. The airline industry is highly competitive. We compete with United in our hub in Denver, and we anticipate that we will compete with United in any additional markets we elect to serve in the future. United and United’s regional airline affiliates are the dominant carriers out of DIA. In addition, Southwest Airlines started service to and from Denver in January 2006. Southwest’s introductory fares were significantly below the fares Frontier was able to offer prior to its arrival. Fare pressure exerted by Southwest on its announced routes and on any future expansion in Denver by Southwest will require us to be fare competitive, and may place additional downward pressure on our yields. In addition, in the last four years Alaska Airlines, JetBlue Airways and AirTran Airways have commenced service at DIA. These airlines have offered low introductory fares and compete on several of our routes. Fare wars, predatory pricing, ‘‘capacity dumping,’’ in which a competitor places additional aircraft on selected routes, and other competitive activities could adversely affect us. In Milwaukee, although Midwest is the dominant brand, we face competition from AirTran Airways, Southwest Airlines, and Delta Airlines. The future activities of competing branded carriers in DIA, MKE and any other hub from which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. We experience high costs at DIA, which may impact our results of operations. Our largest hub of flight operations is DIA where we experience high costs. Financed through revenue bonds, DIA depends on landing fees, gate rentals, income from airlines and the traveling public, and other fees to generate income to service its debt and to support its operations. Our cost of operations at DIA will vary as traffic increases or diminishes at the airport or as significant improvement projects are undertaken by the airport. We believe that our operating costs at DIA substantially exceed those that other airlines incur at most hub airports in other cities, which decreases our ability to compete with other airlines with lower costs at their hub airports. 19 Our maintenance expenses may be higher than we anticipate and will increase as our fleet ages. We bear the cost of all routine and major maintenance on our owned and leased aircraft. Maintenance expenses comprise a significant portion of our operating expenses. In addition, we are required periodically to take aircraft out of service for heavy maintenance checks, which can increase costs and reduce revenue. We also may be required to comply with regulations and airworthiness directives the FAA issues, the cost of which our aircraft lessors may only partially assume depending upon the magnitude of the expense. Although we believe that our owned and leased aircraft are currently in compliance with all FAA issued airworthiness directives, additional airworthiness directives likely will be required in the future, necessitating additional expense. Because the average age of our Embraer aircraft is approximately 4.6 years old and that of our Airbus aircraft is approximately 5.6 years, our aircraft require less maintenance now than they will in the future. We have incurred lower maintenance expenses because most of the parts on our aircraft are under multi-year warranties. Our maintenance costs will increase significantly, both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of our operating expenses, as our fleet ages and these warranties expire. Our landing fees may increase because of local noise abatement procedures and due to reduced capacity in the industry. As a result of litigation and pressure from residents in the areas surrounding airports, airport operators have taken actions over the years to reduce aircraft noise. These actions have included regulations requiring aircraft to meet prescribed decibel limits by designated dates, curfews during nighttime hours, restrictions on frequency of aircraft operations, and various operational procedures for noise abatement. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 recognized the right of airport operators with special noise problems to implement local noise abatement procedures as long as the procedures do not interfere unreasonably with the interstate and foreign commerce of the national air transportation system. Although we are reimbursed by our Partners for landing fees, compliance with local noise abatement procedures may lead to increased landing fees for Midwest and Frontier. An agreement between the City and County of Denver and another county adjacent to Denver specifies maximum aircraft noise levels at designated monitoring points in the vicinity of DIA with significant amounts payable by the city to the other county for each substantiated noise violation under the agreement. DIA has incurred these payment obligations and likely will incur such obligations in the future, which it will pass on to us and other air carriers serving DIA by increasing landing fees. Additionally, noise regulations could be enacted in the future that would increase our expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, the recent capacity reductions by all airlines have forced some airport authorities to increase lease rates and landing fees to adjust for lower volume. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards may be limited. At December 31, 2009, we had estimated federal net operating loss carry-forwards (“NOLs”) of $1.1 billion for federal income tax purposes that begin to expire in 2015. We have recorded a valuation allowance for $558 million of those NOLs. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an “ownership change.” In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. In the event of an ownership change, utilization of our NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. Any unused NOLs in excess of the annual limitation may be carried over to later years. The imposition of a limitation on our ability to use our NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitation were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Based on analysis that we performed, we believe we have not experienced a change in ownership as defined by Section 382, and, therefore, our NOLs are not currently under any Section 382 limitation, except for NOLs acquired from Midwest and Frontier. The lack of marketing alliances could harm our business. Many branded airlines have marketing alliances with other airlines, under which they market and advertise their status as marketing alliance partners. Among other things, they share the use of two-letter flight designator codes to identify their flights and fares in the computerized reservation systems and permit reciprocity in their frequent flyer programs. Midwest and Frontier do not have an extensive network of marketing partners. The lack of marketing alliances puts us at a competitive disadvantage to global network carriers, whose ability to attract passengers through more widespread alliances, particularly on international routes, may adversely affect our passenger traffic and our results of operations. 20 We rely heavily on automated systems and technology to operate our Midwest and Frontier business and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We are increasingly dependent on automated systems, information technology personnel and technology to operate our Midwest and Frontier business, enhance customer service and achieve low operating costs, including our computerized airline reservation system, telecommunication systems, website, check-in kiosks and in-flight entertainment systems. Substantial or repeated system failures to any of the above systems could reduce the attractiveness of our services and could result in our customers purchasing tickets from another airline. Any disruptions in these systems or loss of key personnel could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and generally harm our business. In addition, we have experienced an increase in customers booking flights on our airline through third-party websites, which has increased our distribution costs. If any of these third-party websites experiences system failure or discontinues listing our flights on its systems, our bookings and revenue may be adversely impacted. We implement improvements to our website and reservations system from time to time. Implementation of changes to these systems may cause operational and financial disruptions if we experience transition or system cutover issues, if the new systems do not perform as we expect them to, or if vendors do not deliver systems upgrades or other components on a timely basis. Any such disruptions may have the effect of discouraging some travelers from purchasing tickets from us and increasing our reservations staffing. We are at risk of losses stemming from an accident involving any of our aircraft. While we have never had a crash causing death or serious injury over our 35 year history, it is possible that one or more of our aircraft may crash or be involved in an accident in the future, causing death or serious injury to individual air travelers and our employees and destroying the aircraft and the property of third parties. In addition, if one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident we would be exposed to significant tort liability. Such liability could include liability arising from the claims of passengers or their estates seeking to recover damages for death or injury. There can be no assurance that the insurance we carry to cover such damages will be adequate. Accidents could also result in unforeseen mechanical and maintenance costs. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and a decrease in revenues. Such a decrease could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Customer loyalty may be affected due to diminishing product differentiation. The Company’s branded business strategy includes a premium travel experience at competitive fares. The Company seeks to differentiate itself through better customer service throughout the customer’s travel experience. Due to the current state of the airline industry in general, and the Company’s current state, it has been forced to reduce or suspend some of the amenities that helped it originally achieve differentiation. Any loss of customers due to diminishing product differentiation could harm business. Risks Associated with the Airline Industry The airline industry is highly competitive. Within the airline industry, we not only compete with major and other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low-fare airlines and major airlines on many of our routes, including carriers that fly point to point instead of to or through a hub. Some of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter our markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. In addition to traditional competition among airlines, the industry faces competition from video teleconferencing and other methods of electronic communication. New advances in technology may add a new dimension of competition to the industry as business travelers seek lower-cost substitutes for air travel. If passengers perceive the operations of regional airlines as being unsafe, our business will be harmed. In February 2009, Colgan Flight 3407, operating as Continental Connection, crashed on its approach into Buffalo, New York. A total of 50 people were killed. Since the date of this tragedy, there have been numerous press reports questioning some of the operating policies of regional airlines. In response, there have also been legislative initiatives aimed at heightening safety requirements, such as The Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009, which was passed in October. Although we have never had a crash causing death or serious injury in over 35 years of operations, should the public perceive our operations as less safe or should new legislation impose additional burdens on us, our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock could be materially adversely effected. 21 High fuel costs would harm the airline industry. While fuel is at or near three-year lows, a return to higher fuel prices would harm the airline industry’s financial condition and results of operations. Fuel costs constitute a substantial portion of the total operating expenses of the airline industry. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues, supply and demand and other factors. Fuel availability is also affected by demand for home heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Further, in the event of a fuel supply shortage or further increases in fuel prices, a curtailment of scheduled service could result. The airline industry has been subject to a number of strikes, which could affect our business. The airline industry has been negatively impacted by a number of labor strikes. Any new collective bargaining agreement entered into by other carriers may result in higher industry wages and increase pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Furthermore, since each of our Partners is a significant source of our operating revenues, any labor disruption or labor strike by the employees of any one of our Partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Airlines are often affected by certain factors beyond their control, including weather conditions, which can affect their operations. Generally, revenues for airlines depend on the number of passengers carried, the fare paid by each passenger and service factors, such as the timeliness of departure and arrival. During periods of fog, ice, low temperatures, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. For example, in 2005, Hurricane Wilma forced us to suspend some of our operations in Florida for a number of days. In addition under our fixed-fee code-share agreements, our regional airline business are partially protected against cancellations due to weather or air traffic control, although these factors may affect our ability to receive incentive payments for flying more than the minimum number of flights specified in our code-share agreements. Should we enter into pro-rate revenue sharing agreements in the future our regional airline business will not be protected against weather or air traffic control cancellations and our operating revenues could suffer as a result. Our branded operations are not insulated against weather or air traffic control cancellations. The airline industry has recently gone through a period of consolidation and transition; consequently, we have fewer potential Partners. Since 1978 and continuing to the present, the airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. For example, in 2008, Delta and Northwest completed a merger. Other recent developments include the domestic code-share alliance between United and US Airways, and the merger of America West and US Airways. We, as well as our Partners, routinely monitor changes in the competitive landscape and engage in analysis and discussions regarding our strategic position, including potential alliances and business combination transactions. Further consolidation could limit the number of potential partners with whom we could enter into code-share relationships. Although none of our contracts with our Partners allow termination or are amendable in the event of consolidation, any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could adversely affect our relationship with our Partners. The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. For example, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. Moreover, our ability to sell excess aircraft may be restricted by a potential buyer’s inability to secure credit. The global economic recession has resulted in weaker demand for air travel and may create challenges for us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As the effects of the global economic recession have been felt in our domestic markets, we are experiencing significantly weaker demand for air travel. Global economic conditions in 2009 substantially reduced U.S. airline industry revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. Demand for air travel could remain weak or even continue to fall if the global economic recession continues for an extended period. The weakness in the United States and international economies is having a significant negative impact on our results of operations and could continue to have a significant negative impact on our future results of operations. 22 The airline industry is heavily regulated. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne wind shear avoidance systems, noise abatement, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety related items and removal, replacement or modification of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our Embraer or Airbus aircraft, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as Embraer or Bombardier aircraft, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of Embraer or Bombardier aircraft at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For instance, “passenger bill of rights” legislation was introduced in Congress that, if enacted, would have, among other things, required the payment of compensation to passengers as a result of certain delays and limited the ability of carriers to prohibit or restrict usage of certain tickets. This legislation is not currently active but if it is reintroduced, these measures could have the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and increasing costs. Several state legislatures have also considered such legislation, and the State of New York in fact implemented a “passenger bill of rights” that was overturned by a federal appeals court in 2008. The DOT has imposed restrictions on the ownership and transfer of airline routes and takeoff and landing slots at certain high-density airports, including New York LaGuardia and Reagan National. In addition, as a result of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. in September 2001, the FAA and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) have imposed stringent security requirements on airlines. We cannot predict what other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and we cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. The Company’s results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry. Due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. The Company’s results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors and general economic conditions. As a result, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. The airline industry is seasonal and cyclical resulting in unpredictable liquidity and earnings. Because the airline industry is seasonal and cyclical, our earnings related to Midwest and Frontier will fluctuate and be unpredictable. These operations primarily depend on passenger travel demand and seasonal variations. Our weakest travel periods are generally during the quarters ending in March and December. The airline industry is also a highly cyclical business with substantial volatility. Our operating and financial results are likely to be negatively impacted by national or regional economic conditions in the U.S., and particularly in Colorado and Wisconsin. We are in a high fixed cost business and any unexpected decrease in revenue would harm us. The airline industry is characterized by low profit margins and high fixed costs primarily for personnel, fuel, aircraft ownership and lease costs and other rents. The expenses of an aircraft flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried and, as a result, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing would have a disproportionate effect on the operating and financial results of Midwest and Frontier and possibly on us as a whole. We are often affected by factors beyond our control, including weather conditions, traffic congestion at airports and increased security measures, and irrational pricing from competitors, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. 23 Delays or cancellations due to adverse weather conditions or other factors beyond our control could adversely affect us. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, air traffic congestion at airports and increased security measures. Delays frustrate passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which negatively affect profitability. During periods of snow, rain, fog, hurricanes or other storms, or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Cancellations or delays due to weather conditions, traffic control problems and breaches in security could harm our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. Since our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ National Market (now the NASDAQ Global Select Market) on May 27, 2004, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $4.10 to a high of $23.88 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · announcements concerning our Partners, competitors, the airline industry or the economy in general; · strategic actions by us, our Partners or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · the results of our branded business; · media reports and publications about the safety of our aircraft or the aircraft types we operate; · new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; · general and industry specific economic conditions, including the price of oil; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings or our Partners; and · general market conditions. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our business. Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the availability of a large number of shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. Our incorporation documents and Delaware law have provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could negatively affect your investment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain of these provisions: · authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; 24 · limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; · provide that a supermajority vote of our stockholders is required to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and · establish advance notice requirements to nominate directors for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These and other provisions in our incorporation documents and Delaware law could allow our board of directors to affect your rights as a stockholder by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace board members. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. In addition, these provisions could deprive our stockholders of opportunities to realize a premium on the shares of common stock owned by them. Our charter documents include provisions limiting voting by foreign owners. Our certificate of incorporation provides that shares of capital stock may not be voted by or at the direction of persons who are not citizens of the United States if the number of such shares would exceed applicable foreign ownership restrictions. U.S. law currently requires that no more than 25% of the voting stock of our company or any other domestic airline may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not citizens of the United States. However, up to 49% of the total equity of our company or any other domestic airline may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not citizens of the United States. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 25 ITEM 