D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making any investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and results of operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Management of Liquidity We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our businesses, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness We have significant financial obligations, as summarized in “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As described in that section, in the month of December 2013 we signed a debt refinancing agreement that represented an extension of maturities, improved the flexibility in the process of debt reduction and enhanced our liquidity profile. The improvement in the liquidity profile derived from a new credit facility amounting to €353 million signed with certain institutional investors to cover medium term liquidity needs, and from the significant reduction of interest paid in cash. However, should operations continue to deteriorate in some of our businesses in Spain or should our Latam operations not be able to transfer cash flows to the parent company as expected, our financial condition would be adversely impacted. The refinancing agreement includes several commitments of debt reduction, for which compliance we have different strategic alternatives including the sale of non-strategic assets, the ability of the Company to repurchase debt at a discount from its current lenders, the leverage of operating assets, transfers of debt between tranches and other corporate transactions. If we were unable to meet those debt reduction commitments, the contract contemplates automatic mechanisms that could prevent its early termination, in certain situations, giving stability to our capital structure. Additionally, the agreement incorporates legal decision making mechanisms by qualified majorities in negotiation processes that previously were subject to unanimous consent of the lenders. 10 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013, our bank borrowings amounted to €3,401 million (December 31, 2012: €3,072 million). Our borrowing level: · increases the vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; · requires a portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of interest on the indebtedness, therefore reducing the ability to use cash flow to fund short term operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditures and future business operations; · exposes the Group to the risk of increased interest rates, as a part of the borrowings are at variable rates of interest; and · limits the Group ability to adjust to changing market conditions and places the Group at a disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt. If our operating cash flow and capital resources were insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or further restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Restrictive covenants in our agreements governing our indebtedness could adversely affect our businesses and operating results by limiting flexibility. The agreements governing the terms of our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants and requirements to comply with certain leverage and other financial maintenance tests. Many of these agreements also include cross default provisions applicable to other agreements, meaning that a default under any one of these agreements could result in a default under our other debt agreements. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors, who may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions. Further, these covenants could adversely impact our businesses by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. Our loans are subject to fluctuations in interest rates that may not be adequately protected or protected at all, by our hedging strategies. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 35% of our bank borrowings terms were at variable interest rates, and therefore we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates (see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”). There can be no certainty that our hedging activities will be successful or fully protect us from interest rate exposure. If we cannot arrange interest rate hedges or our hedging strategy is inadequate or the counterparties to the hedging agreements become insolvent, we may not be capable of fully or partially neutralizing the risks associated with changes in interest rates, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2013, €308 million of our outstanding debt was hedged. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of the various countries in which we operate. Our foreign currency risk relates mainly to operating income (revenues) generated outside of the European market, resulting from operations carried on in non-euro zone countries that are tied to the performance of their respective currencies, the acquisition of audiovisual rights from international suppliers of television content and financial investments made to acquire ownership interests in foreign companies. Our principal foreign currencies are the U.S. dollar, Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Argentine peso, Chilean peso and Colombian peso. In order to mitigate this risk, as far as there are credit lines available, we arrange hedges to cover the risk of changes in exchange rates (mainly foreign currency hedges and forwards) on the basis of our projections and budgets that are reviewed on a monthly basis in order to reduce volatility in cash flows transferred to the parent. If our hedging strategy is inadequate or the counterparties in the hedging arrangements become insolvent, we may not be capable of fully or partially neutralizing the risks associated with the changes in the exchange rate, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our working capital included amounts past due to suppliers at year end. Working capital as of December 31, 2013 included significant amounts past due to suppliers. This situation may continue into 2014. If we are not able to generate sufficient positive short term cash flow to cover those payments, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or further restructure our debt. Such measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet the short term liabilities. 11 Table of Contents We have significant minority interests in some cash generating companies Although we fully consolidate all our businesses, third parties have significant minority interests in some of our cash generating companies. In particular, third parties hold a 25% minority interest in the Education business, a 44% minority interest in DTS, Distribuidora de Televisión Digital, S.A. (“DTS”) and a 24.99% minority interest in Radio. Grupo Santillana de Ediciones, S.L. (“Santillana”) is required to pay a predetermined fixed preferred dividend to its minority shareholders. With respect to DTS, the parent Company has access to its cash only through dividends. The evolution of operations and financial condition of DTS will directly affect the dividends received by the parent company. To the extent the dividend is part of the cash flow of the parent Company, among other sources, in case those dividends were not enough, or in case DTS did not distribute dividends, our consolidated cash flow might be adversely affected and make it more difficult to meet our obligations. In the case of the Spanish operations of Education and Radio, the parent Company has access to their cash through cash pooling contracts, which could adversely be affected by a change in the circumstances of minority shareholders. PRISA’s financing agreements contain change of control provisions On December 11, 2013, we entered into a New Money Facility Agreement with a number of institutional investors for a total amount of €353million. Additionally, on the same date we entered into a new refinancing agreement with our financial creditors, the so named Override Agreement, for the purposes of refinancing part of Prisa´s existing group financial debt. These two financing agreements include certain change of control provisions customary in these kind of contracts by means of which, if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of Prisa, the existing loans under those agreements and any amount accrued and outstanding thereunder might be declared due and payable. Additionally, in the event this provision is triggered, we shall also indemnify the lenders against any cost, loss or liability incurred by any of them as a result of the change of control. According to the definition established thereby, for the purposes of the financing agreements, “control” means: (i) the power (whether by way of ownership of shares, proxy, contract, agency or otherwise) to: (a) cast, or control the casting of, more than 30% of the maximum number of votes that might be cast at a general meeting of Prisa; or (b) appoint or remove all, or the majority, of the directors or other equivalent officers of the Company; or (c) give directions with respect to the operating and financial policies of Prisa with which the directors or other equivalent officers of Prisa are obliged to comply; or (ii) the holding of more than 30% of Prisa’s issued share capital (excluding any part of that issued share capital that carries no right to participate beyond a specified amount in a distribution of either profits or capital). It should be noted that, as a consequence of the latest amendments on the composition of Prisa’s share capital, the former controlling shareholders of the Group no longer have control of the company, and that, at this moment, there is no other shareholder nor group of shareholders acting in concert that could be deemed to be in control of the Group as per the abovementioned criteria. If any person or group of persons acting in concert gain control of Prisa and, consequently, the debt under our financial agreements were to be accelerated, we might not have the funds required to immediately repay this debt. We have tax credits for export activities discussed by tax authorities A significant portion of the tax credits for export activities generated by the Group in the past, totaling €253 million, has been questioned in various tax audits, since the tax authorities considered that the requirements for use of this tax benefit had not been met. Although we do not agree with the position of the tax authorities and have appealed, to cover a possible unfavorable ruling on the issues in question and a potential cash disbursement, a €46 million provision was maintained, for the amount of the tax credit used in prior years and deferred tax assets amounting to €207 million were derecognized (€192 million in 2013 and €15 million in 2010), corresponding to the amount of unused tax credits. We have significant tax assets (tax losses and tax credits) that we may not be able to use if the company or tax group at which the tax asset arose does not generate sufficient income. 12 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013, we have recognized tax assets amounting to €1,244 million in our consolidated financial statements: · €923 million related to tax assets recorded at a 30% rate arising from tax loss carryforwards as a result mainly of prior years’ losses of TV business companies, mainly, DTS (€762 million), of the Prisa consolidated tax group (totaling €146 million) and other minor consolidated tax groups (€15 million). Under the tax law, the deadline for recovering these tax assets by offsetting them against future profits is 18 years from the tax year in which they were generated (or of the year in which the company concerned first earns a profit, which is the case with DTS, whose deadline is calculated from 2009). This law states that in 2013, 2014 and 2015, offsetting of tax losses is limited to 25% of the amount of the tax income carryforward that was generated previous to the offsetting. Since these assets were earned mainly by companies outside the scope of the Prisa consolidated tax group, they will have to be recovered outside of this scope, i.e., they will have to be offset against the individual profits of each company at which they arose. Assets generated inside the scope of the Prisa consolidated tax group could be recovered inside of this scope, i.e., they could be offset against the profits of the tax group. · €181 million related mainly to investment tax credits that are deducted from the income tax charge. The deadline for taking these credits against future profits, in accordance with the Corporation Tax Law, is seven or ten years for double taxation tax credits, and fifteen or eighteen years (for R&D credits) from the date on which they were earned in case of investment tax credits. In addition to this deadline, restrictions apply as to the amount that may be used each year, to the extent that, of the balances available for use, credits corresponding to only 35% (25% during 2013, 2014 and 2015) of the gross tax payable (resulting, in turn, from 30% of the taxable profit less double taxation tax credits) in that year may be used. · €55.8 million of tax assets within Prisa consolidated tax Group related to a 30% rate of the nondeductible financial expenses in the tax years 2012 and 2013, calculated with the current structure of the Prisa tax group and the financial debt of the Group. As a result of a tax reform published on March 31, 2011, the deductibility of financial expenses is limited to 30% of Adjusted EBITDA, as calculated for tax purposes. The amount of nondeductible financial expenses can be offset, under the same conditions, and with the same limit, against future profits in the corporate tax of the following eighteen years. Therefore, the amount not deducted could generate a future tax asset. Should our businesses fail to produce sufficient profits in the future against which these tax assets (tax loss carryforwards and tax credits) may be used within the time horizon indicated, such credits would be lost, which could significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition. Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized are reassessed at the end of each reporting period in order to ascertain whether they still exist, and the appropriate adjustments are made on the basis of the findings of the analyses performed and the tax rate then in force. Risks Relating to our Group and the Industries in which we Operate Economic conditions may adversely affect our businesses and customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The economic situation in Spain and Portugal has experienced a sharp slowdown and significant volatility in recent years. Specifically, main consumption indicators in these countries have significantly deteriorated, and have impacted and still could impact in the future the spending by customers on our products and services of the Group, including advertisers, subscribers to our pay TV platform, purchasers of newspapers and magazines and other consumers of our content offerings. Similarly, the sovereign debt crisis in certain euro-area countries and rating downgrades in some of these countries have contributed to a weakening of the business environment and financial markets in the area. Furthermore, the activities and investments of Prisa in Latin America are exposed to the evolution of the various macroeconomic parameters of each country including a potential decline in consumption as a result of a slowdown in the growth rate of these countries in the medium term. In addition, in unfavorable economic environments, our business customers may have difficulties obtaining capital to finance their ongoing businesses and operations and may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely payments and continue operations. We cannot predict the duration and severity of weakened economic conditions and such conditions and resultant effects could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. A further decline in advertising expenditures could cause our revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. A relevant portion of our operating income (revenues) depends on the revenues generated from the advertising market through our press, radio, audiovisual and digital businesses. Advertising in Spain and Portugal continued to perform negatively in 2013, although there has been some deceleration in the pace of decline since the third quarter of 2013 in Spain. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Consequently, a further decline of the macroeconomic situation in Spain and Portugal could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. In view of the significant weight of fixed costs associated with businesses with a high component of advertising revenue (mainly radio and press), a drop in advertising revenues directly impacts operating profit and therefore our ability to generate cash flow, forcing our business units to conduct frequent checks and adjustments to their cost base. 13 Table of Contents Demand for our products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. For example, ratings points for our radio stations, television audience levels and circulation levels for our newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates. A drop in advertising revenue could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights our competitive position and results may be adversely affected and limit our ability to grow. Revenue from the exploitation of contents and royalties we own may be affected by illicit access via the internet or copying, which primarily affects the pay TV business and book publishing. Third parties may copy, infringe or otherwise profit from our proprietary rights without our authorization. The loss or diminution in value of these proprietary rights or our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. The use of alternative means of delivery for newspapers and magazines may adversely affect our businesses. Revenue in the newspaper and magazine publishing industry is dependent primarily upon advertising revenue, subscription fees and sale of copies. The use of alternative means of delivery, such as free Internet sites, for news and other content has increased significantly in recent years. Should significant numbers of customers choose to receive content using these alternative delivery sources rather than through our product offerings, we may face a long-term decline in circulation, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and we may not successfully react to competitors’ actions. The audiovisual, education, radio and press industries in which we operate are highly competitive. With respect to the pay TV business, activities of competition may affect our ability to attract new subscribers and increase our penetration rate, and may also lead to an increase in the cost of attracting new subscribers or purchasing contents, which might result in a significant negative impact on the financial position and results of this line of activity. To compete effectively in these industries we must successfully market our products and react appropriately to our competitors’ actions, both by launching new products or services and by adjusting our pricing strategies. Such rigorous competition poses an ongoing challenge to our ability to increase audience share, increase sales, retain our present customers, attract new customers and improve our profit margins. Furthermore, the regulatory policies of many countries in which we conduct business tend, where possible, to enable increased competition in most of the industries in which we operate. These countries have in the past granted, and can be expected to continue to grant, new licenses enabling the entry of new competitors into the marketplace. Such entries have the potential to reduce our revenues or make our operations less profitable. We may not be capable of competing successfully with current or future industry participants, and the entry of new competitors into the industries in which we currently operate may reduce our revenue, market share or profitability. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. We may fail to adequately evolve our business strategy as the industry segments in which we compete further mature. Our principal lines of business, specifically press, radio, education, audiovisual, media distribution, advertising and publishing, are conducted in mature industry segments typified by moderate growth rates (or, in some cases, declining demand), standardized product offerings, a significant number of competitors and difficulties in developing and offering new products and services to consumers. Advertising revenues represent a relevant portion of our revenue (20% of our 2013 operating income). According to PricewaterhouseCoopers Global Entertainment and Media Outlook 2013-2017 Report, advertising expenditure in Spain is expected to increase by 0.6% in 2014, by 0.8% in 2015, by 1.3% in 2016 and by 1.2% in 2017, which represents a 1.1% compound annual rate for this period. This same source estimates that advertising expenditure in television in Portugal will grow by 2.6%, 1.9%, 3.1% and 2.4% in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively and advertising expenditure in radio in Latin America will grow by 9.5%, 9.1%, 9.2% and 8.8% in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively. According to the PricewaterhouseCoopers Global Entertainment and Media Outlook 2013-2017 Report, the digital component of newspaper advertising revenue in Spain is estimated to grow at an 8.9% compound annual rate, while newspaper print advertising is expected to decline by 4.8%. Additionally print circulation spending in Spain is expected to decline at a 4.5% compound annual rate, while digital circulation spending is expected to increase by 25.5%. 14 Table of Contents Regarding Radio, the report states that the lack of a unified digital technology platform has left most European markets without meaningful digital radio penetration. Instead, the digital transition is largely an Internet phenomenon with audiences spending an increasing amount of time listening online and on connected devices. Sales of books and training represented 26% of our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2013. Regarding the total spending in the print educational book market, the report states that Spain is expected to decline in the period 2013-2017 by 3.5%. In Latin America, the report expects a 2.7% compound annual rate growth over the same period. Electronic educational books include interactive learning tools that give print books an enhanced value. Total spending in the electronic educational book market in Spain is expected to grow in the period 2013-2017 by 15.9% and a 94.9% in Latam, with Brazil totaling a 53% of total spending on educational electronic books in this region in 2017. Revenue from subscribers represented 32% of our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2013. In relation to the pay television subscription market, the report states that the subscription market in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region is a mature market, so long-established premium pay-TV operators will be focused on selling more services to existing clients , either via enhancements to the TV experience such as HDTV, 3DTV, multi-room and DVRs, or via the addition of broadband and telephone through bundling. Some operators are also launching multiscreen initiatives (giving their TV subscribers access to content on additional devices, such as PCs, tablets and smartphones to compete with “over-the-top” players that allow viewers to watch TV programs over the Internet. . The report states that subscription TV market is expected to grow in this region at a 2.9% compound annual rate (+1.9% in Spain). We must adopt new strategies to adequately address the challenges posed by this competitive climate. These new strategies may include capturing the benefits of economies of scale, cost reduction, better use of production capacity, increased employee productivity and achieving product and service differentiation through innovative marketing, product design, customer service and organization, among others, to provide us with a competitive edge over other industry participants and enhance the effectiveness of our response to customer demands. Our failure to adapt strategically to the continuing maturity of the industries in which we operate or to adopt appropriate business strategies in the future could result in the loss of our current market share and, consequently, could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in highly regulated industries and are therefore exposed to legislative, administrative and regulatory risks that could adversely impact our businesses. Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulations including the requirement to maintain concessions and licenses for our operations in our Audiovisual and Radio segments. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or in their interpretation, may occur and may substantially impact our business operations, including by requiring changes to our business methods, increasing our costs of doing business or by forcing us to cease conducting business in those segments. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. Television & Radio Our radio and television operations in both Europe and Latin America are subject to government regulation and are conducted under revocable administrative concessions or licenses. Applicable radio and television regulations cover, among other matters, minimum coverage, necessary technical specifications, program content and permissible advertising. The regulations also cover the ownership and transfer of equity interests in companies engaged in the regulated activities. We provide a considerable portion of our services under licenses or concessions granted by the governments and administrative bodies of the countries in which we operate. These licenses and concessions require us to comply with the imposed terms and conditions, including with specified investment commitments and established geographic coverage requirements, and to meet established service quality standards. The performance of such obligations is frequently secured by guarantees. In the event of any failure to comply with applicable law or the terms and conditions of a license or a concession, supervising authorities may review or revoke the license or concession or impose penalties on us. The continuity and the terms of the licenses and concessions may be subject to review by the relevant regulatory bodies and the regulators may also construe, amend or terminate a license or a concession. In the event of termination of a concession or license, we may not have access to any meaningful means of redress and termination could significantly adversely affect our business, results of its operations and financial condition. Our business and our ability to meet the targets established by our strategic plan would be adversely affected in the event that any new legislation or regulations impose more restrictive provisions or more burdensome compliance requirements than those presently in effect or otherwise significantly quantitatively or qualitatively impact any of our licenses or concessions, or if such licenses or concessions were not to be renewed or are revoked, thereby negatively impacting our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Publishing Our book publishing operations are subject to both general legislation applicable to book publishing as well as legislation regulating the publication of educational materials specifically applicable to textbooks. In addition, in Spain, Autonomous Community legislation (legislation by principal governmental bodies responsible for primary and secondary education, universities and higher education and other state-funded education) imposes various obligations on publishers of educational material and textbooks, and the legislation enacted in support of these functions is extensive. Should we breach any of our statutory obligations with respect to the publication of educational materials and textbooks, penalties could be imposed on us and our textbooks and other educational material could be declared unsuitable. Should the adoption of book lending in schools by the Spanish Autonomous Communities increase or should the funds they allocate to the acquisition of books be reduced (directly or through subsidies to families) the sale of textbooks and other educational material would be reduced. Uncertainty regarding the level to which Spanish Autonomous Communities adopt the educational reform fostered by the central Government could also lead to a decrease of sales and/or increase of expenses. Any of these developments could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations in some Latin American countries subject us to certain risks. For the year ended December 31, 2013 approximately 27.1% of our operating revenues and 67.5% of our Adjusted EBITDA was derived from operations in Latin America. Various risks typical to investments in some Latin American countries with emerging economies could adversely affect our operations and investments in Latin America, the most significant of which include: ● the possible devaluation of foreign currencies or introduction of exchange restrictions, or other restrictions imposed on the free flow of capital across borders; ● the potential effects of inflation and/or the possible devaluation of local currencies, which could lead to equity deficits at our subsidiaries operating in these countries and require us either to recapitalize the affected subsidiaries or wind up the operations of any such affected subsidiary; ● the potential for foreign government expropriation or nationalization of our foreign assets; ● the potential for substantial changes in applicable foreign tax levels or the introduction of new foreign taxes or levies; ● the possibility that foreign government impose legal restrictions to the establishing of prices or to the maximum margins companies may obtain. ● the possibility of changes in policies and/or regulations affecting the economic climate or business conditions of the foreign markets in which we operate; and ● the possibility of economic crises, economic instability or public unrest, which could have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries. Any of the above circumstances could adversely impact both our ability to grow our operations in the affected countries and our results of operations and financial position. If we do not successfully respond to the rapid technological changes that characterize our businesses, our competitive position may be adversely impacted. In order to maintain and grow our business, we must adapt to technological advances, for which research and development are key factors. Technological changes could give rise to new competitors in our various businesses and provide new opportunities for existing competitors to increase market share at our expense. Consequently, should we fail to keep sufficiently abreast of the current and future technological developments in the industry, this could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our capacity to achieve our business, strategic and financial objectives. Losses in excess of insurance, or losses resulting in increases to insurance premiums or failure to renew, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although all of our companies maintain insurance policies with scope and coverage that we believe is consistent with industry practices, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be significantly adversely affected by any exposure to a significant uninsured risk, any incurrence of losses significantly exceeding our insurance coverage, or any considerable increase in our insurance premiums due to claims in any given year significantly exceeding the historical level of claims. Furthermore, as our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal, we may not be able to renew our existing policies on similar or favorable terms and conditions, if at all. 16 Table of Contents We depend significantly on our pay television business and negative developments in this market could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2013, revenue from the Spanish pay television market through Canal+ accounted for 42.8% of our operating income. Our share of the total pay television market in Spain in terms of revenues is 68.4%, according to the Spanish Telecommunication Market Commission (CMT) 3Q report 2013. The growth and profitability of the Canal+ business are dependent on developments in the pay television industry as a whole, on changes in the film production and distribution industry, on evolution of consumer spending as well as on significant changes with regards to increases in VAT and changes in competitor strategy. In a context of increasing costs associated with the new exploitation model of football, growing competition in content acquisition and aggressive marketing strategies by certain operators, which offer free content under multi-element arrangements, falling subscriber revenues and rising costs necessarily increase the period of time required to capitalize those costs. This would have a negative impact on the Group's pay TV operating indicators and, therefore, on its results of operations and liquidity of the business, which might raise additional financing needs in the business. Industry developments impact: ● our ability to stimulate pay television consumption, win new subscribers and increase the rate of penetration of pay television among homes with televisions; and ● our ability to ensure the future continuity of the supply of television programming produced by third parties. In 2012 Canal+ signed a new agreement for the exploitation of football rights in the coming three seasons for the Spanish Liga and the Copa. Additionally, in 2011 Canal+ acquired the broadcast rights to the UEFA Champions League for three seasons starting August, 2012. Should the market for pay television suffer a downturn or a significant reduction in subscribers or ARPU (average revenue per user), or should the costs of attracting new subscribers or purchasing content further increase, this would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on a number of third-party infrastructures and technological systems for the provision of services to subscribers and any breakdown thereof could interrupt those services. Currently, Canal+ has contracts for the supply of satellite transmission services with the operators Hispasat, S.A. and Société Européenne des Satellites, S.A., or SES ASTRA. The provision by Canal+ of satellite television services depends on these supply contracts remaining in force. The revocation, termination or failure to renew these contracts could prevent Canal+ from providing its subscribers with satellite television services and could lead to an interruption in these services and adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Our systems to operate and protect our digital activities may be insufficient to protect against service interruptions or fraudulent activities. Our digital activities generated €87 million in revenues in 2013, a 43.8% increase over 2012. Our digital activity depends on Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), online service providers and our system infrastructure to allow users to access the sites we operate, as well as on technologies and network systems to handle transactions and user information securely over the Internet. Significant system failures, including network, software or hardware failures, that cause a delay or interruption in access to our sites could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our security and network systems could also be tested and subject to attack by third parties seeking to commit fraud. Any such attack could cause delay, interruption or financial loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Other risks We are exposed to liability stemming from the content of our publications and programming. Although we attempt to verify the lawfulness of the content of our publications, programs and broadcasts, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not bring claims against us in connection with our public dissemination of publications and the broadcasting of programs. We could be required to publish corrections to any such broadcasts or publications. We could be ordered to pay damages, retract statements or restrict the content of our publications or programs if we are found to have infringed third party rights, any of which could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to material litigation that, if unfavorably determined, could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. 17 Table of Contents As of the date of this annual report, we are a party to various lawsuits. Since these proceedings are in progress, we cannot reliably anticipate the outcome thereof, nor can we fully assess the consequences of potential judgments. A judgment adverse to our interests could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we are required to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management’s attention from executing our business plan. Supermajority voting provisions in our bylaws may have the effect of discouraging potentially interested parties from seeking to acquire us or otherwise influence the outcome of significant matters affecting our shareholders. Without prejudice to the majorities required by applicable law, our bylaws require a 69% supermajority shareholder vote to approve, among others, bylaw amendments, increases or reductions in our share capital, mergers and similar extraordinary transactions, as well as the winding-up and liquidation of the company and, in some cases, the election of directors not nominated by our board of directors. 