Risk Factors” set forth herein.” -3- PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Overview Republic Airways Holdings Inc., (“the Company”) is a Delaware holding company organized in 1996 that operates Chautauqua Airlines, Inc., (“Chautauqua Airlines”), Republic Airline Inc. (“Republic Airline”) and Shuttle America Corporation (“Shuttle America”). As of December 31, 2006, we offered scheduled passenger service on approximately 1,000 flights daily to 90 cities in 35 states, Canada, Mexico and the U.S. Virgin Islands pursuant to code-share agreements with AMR Corp., the parent of American Airlines, Inc. (“American”), US Airways, Inc. (“US Airways”), Delta Air Lines, Inc. (“Delta”) and United Air Lines, Inc. (“United”). In July 2006, we entered into a code-share agreement with Continental Airlines, Inc. (“Continental”) and we began flying for Continental in January 2007. Also, in January 2007, we entered into a code-share agreement with Frontier Airlines, Inc. (“Frontier”). We expect to begin flying for Frontier in March 2007. Currently, we provide five of our six partners with regional jet service, operating as AmericanConnection, US Airways Express, Delta Connection, United Express or Continental Express, including service out of their hubs and focus cities in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, Columbus, Houston, Indianapolis, New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, St. Louis and Washington, D.C. (Dulles and National). Chautauqua Airlines is our platform for flying 37 to 50 seat aircraft, and as of December 31, 2006, operated 95 aircraft. Shuttle America is our platform for flying 70-seat aircraft and, as of December 31, 2006, operated 48 ERJ-170 aircraft. Republic Airline is our platform for aircraft with more than 70 seats, and, as of December 31, 2006, Republic Airline operated twenty-eight 72-seat ERJ-170 aircraft. From 2002 to 2006, our available seat miles, or ASMs, grew at a compounded annual growth rate of 37.9%. As of December 31, 2006, our operational fleet consisted of 171 aircraft, including 76 ERJ-170, 70-seat and larger regional jets and 95 ERJ-145 family, 37-50 seat regional jets. Currently, we have agreed to place into service an additional 30 ERJ-175 regional jets for US Airways through 2008. These 30 aircraft are covered by firm orders that we have with Embraer. We have also agreed to place forty-four 50-seat regional jets into service for Continental between January and July 2007. We will transition 20 ERJ-145 aircraft from our US Airways operations and we plan to lease 24 CRJ-200 regional jets to fulfill the commitment. As of December 31, 2006, four leases for such CRJ-200 aircraft had been obtained and began service in January 2007. We have commitments to lease the remaining 20 CRJ-200 aircraft. In addition, we have entered into an agreement with Frontier to operate 17 ERJ-170 regional jets. Four of the 17 aircraft are currently in our fleet but are not allocated to a code-share partner and the remaining 13 aircraft will be funded by delivery positions available with Embraer in 2007 and 2008. The Company has options for 79 ERJ-170 aircraft, which may be converted to options for ERJ-175, ERJ-190 or ERJ-195 aircraft, which range in size from 78 seats to 110 seats. We have long-term, fixed-fee regional jet code-share agreements with each of our partners that are subject to our maintaining specified performance levels. Pursuant to these fixed-fee agreements, which provide for minimum aircraft utilization at fixed rates, we are authorized to use our partners' two-character flight designation codes to identify our flights and fares in our partners' computer reservation systems, to paint our aircraft in the style of our partners, to use their service marks and to market ourselves as a carrier for our partners. In addition, in connection with a marketing agreement among Delta, Continental and Northwest Airlines, certain of the routes that we fly using Delta's and Continental’s flight designator codes are also flown under Northwest's designator code. Our fixed-fee agreements eliminate our exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices, fare competition and passenger volumes. Our development of relationships with multiple major airlines has enabled us to reduce our dependence on any single airline, allocate our overhead more efficiently among our partners and reduce the cost of our services to our partners. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively, US Airways accounted for approximately 24%, 21% and 38% of our passenger revenues, Delta accounted for approximately 35%, 34% and 36% of our passenger revenues, American accounted for approximately 11%, 13% and 16% of our passenger revenues and United accounted for approximately 30%, 32% and 10% of our passenger revenues. -4- Markets and Routes Markets We believe that our development of hub operations in St. Louis with American; in New York, Boston, Indianapolis, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Washington, D.C. with US Airways; in Columbus, Atlanta and Cincinnati with Delta; and in Chicago and Washington D.C. with United has been a principal factor in the growth of our flight operations and will facilitate implementation of our growth and operating strategy. As of December 31, 2006, we offered scheduled passenger services on approximately 1,000 flights daily to 90 cities in 35 states, Canada, Mexico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. We are currently offering daily passenger service on our Continental Express flights out of Houston. Starting in March of 2007, we began offering daily passenger service on our Frontier flights out of Denver. The following illustrates the routes we currently fly for our code-share partners: -5- -6- -7- -8- Maintenance of Aircraft and Training Using a combination of Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA) certified maintenance vendors and our own personnel and facilities, we maintain our aircraft on a scheduled and "as-needed" basis. We emphasize preventive maintenance and inspect our aircraft engines and airframes as required. We have an agreement with Rolls-Royce to maintain the engines on our ERJ-145 family of regional jets through October 2012, an agreement with Hamilton Sunstrand to maintain the auxiliary power units, or APUs, on our ERJ-145 family of regional jets through April 2009, agreements with Honeywell to maintain the avionics on our ERJ-145 family of regional jets and ERJ-170 regional jets through December 2014, an agreement with Goodrich to maintain wheels and brakes on our ERJ-145 family of regional jets through June 2014, an agreement with GE Engine Services to maintain the engines on our ERJ-170 regional jets through December 2014 and an agreement with AAR Services to provide, manage and repair the airframe components and spare parts on our CRJ-200 regional jet aircraft, and to provide access to a pool of spare parts through December 2009. Under these agreements, we are charged for covered services based on a fixed rate for each flight hour or flight cycle accumulated by the engines or airframes in our service during each month. The rates are subject to annual revisions, generally based on certain Bureau of Labor Statistics' labor and material indices. We believe these agreements, coupled with our ongoing maintenance program, reduce the likelihood of unexpected levels of engine, APU, avionics and wheels and brakes maintenance expense during their term. We have also developed an inventory of aircraft spare parts and have utilized a computerized tracking system to increase maintenance efficiency and to avoid excess inventories of spare parts. We perform our heavy and routine maintenance projects at our facilities in Indianapolis, Columbus, Louisville, Pittsburgh and St. Louis, and we perform routine maintenance services from select line maintenance stations. All mechanics and avionics specialists employed by us have appropriate training and experience and hold required licenses issued by the FAA. We provide periodic in-house and outside training for our maintenance and flight personnel and also take advantage of manufacturers’ training programs that are offered when acquiring new aircraft. We have an agreement with FlightSafety International to provide for aircraft simulator training for all of our pilots. We have no current plans to acquire our own simulator in the near term and believe that FlightSafety or other third party vendors will be able to provide us with adequate and cost effective flight simulator training to implement our growth plans. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we employed approximately 3,700 full-time equivalent employees. The following is a table of our principal collective bargaining agreements and their respective amendable dates as of December 31, 2006: Employee Group Approximate Number of Full-Time Equivalent Employees Representing Union Amendable Date Pilots 1,600 International Brotherhood of Teamsters Airline Division Local 747 October 2007 Flight Attendants 1,100 International Brotherhood of Teamsters Airline Division Local 210 September 2009 Customer Service 40 International Brotherhood of Teamsters Airline Division Local 135 December 2005 Dispatchers 50 Transport Workers Union of America Local 540 February 2007 As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 650 maintenance technicians and other maintenance related personnel, who are not currently represented by any union, and approximately 230 administration and support personnel. Because of the high level of unionization among our employees we are subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or the incurrence of additional expenses associated with union representation of our employees. In connection with our obligation to place 71 additional regional jets into revenue service to meet our obligations under our code-share agreements and related expansion, we anticipate hiring approximately 1,700 additional employees, many of whom will be represented by a union in their employment. Our Customer Service Agreement is being negotiated and we expect it to be amended in 2007. We have never experienced any work stoppages or other job actions and generally consider our relationship with our employees to be good. -9- Executive Officers of the Company The following table sets forth information regarding our current executive officers, directors and key employees as of December 31, 2006: Name Age Position Bryan K. Bedford 45 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Robert H. Cooper 47 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary Wayne C. Heller 48 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Lawrence J. Cohen 51 Director Joseph M. Jacobs 53 Director Douglas J. Lambert 49 Director Mark E. Landesman 46 Director Jay L. Maymudes 45 Director Mark L. Plaumann 51 Director Bryan K. Bedford joined us in July 1999 as our president and chief executive officer and a member of our board of directors and became chairman of the board in August 2001. From July 1995 through July 1999, Mr. Bedford was the president and chief executive officer and a director of Mesaba Holdings, Inc., a publicly-owned regional airline. He has over 18 years of experience in the regional airline industry, and was named regional airline executive of the year in 1998 by Commuter and Regional Airline News and again in 2005 by Regional Airline World magazine. Mr. Bedford is a licensed pilot and a certified public accountant. He also served as the 1998 Chairman of the Regional Airline Association (RAA), and remains on the Board of Directors of the RAA. Robert H. Cooper joined us in August 1999 as vice president and chief financial officer. In February 2002, he became executive vice president, chief financial officer, treasurer and secretary and assumed responsibility for all purchasing and material control. He was previously employed with Mesaba Holdings, Inc. from September 1995 through August 1999 as its vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer. Mr. Cooper is a certified public accountant. He has over 13 years experience in the regional airline industry. He has responsibility for financial accounting, treasury, public reporting, investor relations, human resources, information technology, purchasing and material control. Wayne C. Heller joined us in August 1999 as Vice President—Flight Operations with responsibility for flight crew supervision, system control, flight safety and flight quality standards. In February 2002, he became Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Chautauqua, and assumed responsibility for all aircraft maintenance, records and engineering. From April 1996 until August 1999 he was employed by Mesaba Airlines, Inc., as its Director of System Operations Control. He is a licensed pilot and a licensed dispatcher and has over 25 years of regional airline experience in operations. Lawrence J. Cohen has been a director since June 2002. He is the owner and Chairman of Pembroke Companies, Inc., an investment and management firm that he founded in 1991. The firm makes investments in and provides strategic management services to real estate and specialty finance related companies. From 1989 to 1991, Mr. Cohen worked at Bear Stearns & Co. where he attained the position of Managing Director. From 1983 to 1989, Mr. Cohen served as first Vice President in the Real Estate Group of Integrated Resources, Inc. From 1980 to 1983, Mr. Cohen was an associate at the law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn. Mr. Cohen is a member of the bar in both New York and Florida. Joseph M. Jacobs has been a director since May 1998, and served as Vice-Chairman of the Board from May 1998 to August 2001. He co-founded Wexford Capital LLC in 1994 and serves as its President. From 1982 to 1994, Mr. Jacobs was employed by Bear Stearns & Co., Inc. where he attained the position of Senior Managing Director. From 1979 to 1982, he was employed as a commercial lending officer at Citibank, N.A. Mr. Jacobs is a director of several privately-held companies in which Wexford Capital has an investment. Douglas J. Lambert has been a director since August 2001. He is presently a Senior Director in the Debtor Advisory and Crisis Management Group of Alvarez & Marsal Inc. From 1994 to 2003, Mr. Lambert was a Senior Vice President of Wexford Capital LLC. From 1983 to 1994, Mr. Lambert held various financial positions with Integrated Resources, Inc.'s Equipment Leasing Group, including Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer. He is a certified public accountant. Mark E. Landesman has been a director since June 2002. Mr. Landesman is President of ML Management Associates, Inc., an entertainment business management firm, which he founded in 1988. The firm is responsible for the financial affairs for numerous entertainment industry clients. Mr. Landesman is a member of the Media Entertainment Roundtable Committee and he is a Certified Public Accountant. Jay L. Maymudes has been a director since May 1998. He joined Wexford Capital LLC in 1994, became a Principal in 1997 and serves as Wexford's Chief Financial Officer. From 1988 to 1994, Mr. Maymudes was the Chief Financial Officer of Dusco, Inc., a real estate investment advisory firm which managed publicly-traded and privately-held real estate investment trusts. He is a certified public accountant. Mr. Maymudes is a director of several privately-held companies in which Wexford Capital has an investment. Mark L. Plaumann has been a director since June 2002. He is presently a Managing-Member of Greyhawke Capital Advisors LLC, which he co-founded in 1998. From 1995 to 1998, Mr. Plaumann was a Senior Vice President of Wexford Capital LLC. From 1990 to 1995, Mr. Plaumann was employed by Alvarez & Marsal, Inc. as a Managing Director. From 1985 to 1990, Mr. Plaumann worked for American Healthcare Management, Inc., where he attained the position of President. From 1974 to 1985, Mr. Plaumann worked in both the audit and consulting divisions of Ernst & Young, where he attained the position of Senior Manager and he is a certified public accountant. Mr. Plaumann is the Chair of our Audit Committee, is an “audit committee financial expert” and is independent as defined under applicable SEC and Nasdaq rules. -10- Code-Share Agreements Through our subsidiaries, we have entered into code-share agreements with US Airways, American, Delta, United, Continental and Frontier that authorize us to use their two-character flight designator codes (“US,” “AA,” “DL,” “UA,” “CO” and “F9”) to identify our flights and fares in their computer reservation systems, to paint our aircraft with their colors and/or logos, to use their service marks and to market and advertise our status as US Airways Express, AmericanConnection, Delta Connection, United Express, Continental Express and Frontier Airlines, respectively. In connection with a marketing agreement among Delta, Continental and Northwest Airlines, certain of the routes that we fly using Delta's and Continental’s flight designator codes are also flown under Northwest's designator code. Under the code-share agreements between our subsidiaries and each of US Airways, American, Delta, United, Continental and Frontier, we are compensated on a fixed-fee basis on all of our US Airways Express, AmericanConnection, Delta Connection, United Express, Continental Express and Frontier Airlines flights. In addition, under our code-share agreements, our passengers participate in frequent flyer programs of the major airline, and the major airline provides additional services such as reservations, ticket issuance, ground support services, commuter slot rights and airport facilities. US Airways Code-Share Agreements We have entered into an Amended and Restated Jet Services Agreement with US Airways, dated April 26, 2005. As of December 31, 2006, we operated 30 ERJ-145 regional jets including two spares, under this agreement. The code-share agreement provides that we will operate these aircraft to provide US Airways Express service between US Airways hubs and cities designated by US Airways. On July 21, 2006, we amended this agreement and agreed to remove 20 ERJ-145 aircraft from US Airways operations and transition into operation under the Continental code-share agreement during 2007. We have also entered into a fixed-fee code-share agreement with US Airways to operate 28 ERJ-170 aircraft on terms substantially similar to those of the ERJ-145 code-share agreement between us and US Airways. In exchange for providing the designated number of flights and performing our other obligations under the code-share agreements, we receive compensation from US Airways three times each month in consideration for the services provided under the code-share agreement. We receive an additional amount per available seat mile flown. We also may receive incentives or pay penalties based upon our performance, including fleet launch performance, on-time departure performance and completion percentage rates. Additionally, certain of our operating costs are considered "pass through" costs whereby US Airways has agreed to reimburse us the actual amount of costs we incur for these items. Landing fees, passenger catering, passenger liability insurance and aircraft property tax costs are pass through costs. As of December 31, 2006, with our ERJ 145 regional jets and our ERJ 170 regional jets, we were providing 370 flights per day as US Airways Express between New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Indianapolis, Washington, D.C. and designated outlying cities. Beginning in May 2005, US Airways elected to provide fuel directly for all of the Company’s US Airways Express aircraft operations. This change eliminated fuel expense and the related fuel reimbursement (previously recorded as revenue) for the US Airways operations. Operating margins are not affected by this change. On July 24, 2006, we amended the Jet Service Agreement (JSA”) with US Airways to operate 30 ERJ-175 aircraft on terms substantially similar to those of the ERJ-145 and ERJ-170 agreements between us and US Airways. The amended agreement has a term of twelve years for each aircraft. We expect to place these 30 ERJ-175 aircraft into service for US Airways beginning in 2007 and through 2008. The code-share agreements for the ERJ-145 and ERJ-170 regional jets terminate in March 2013 and September 2015, respectively; however, US Airways may terminate the code-share agreements at any time for cause upon not less than 90 days notice and subject to our right to cure under the following conditions: · if we fail to perform or observe any material covenant or condition or agreement to be performed or observed by us, provided that if we breach any payment obligation, US Airways has the right to terminate the agreement on 10 days’ prior written notice unless we cure such breach prior to the expiration of 10 days; · if our flight completion factor falls below specified percentages during specified periods due to operational deficiencies that are within our control; · if our on time departure performance falls below specified percentages during specified periods; · if we admit liability or are found liable for any safety infraction by the FAA that could reasonably be expected to lead to the suspension or revocation of our operating certificate or if in US Airways' reasonable opinion we are not complying in any material respect with applicable safety and operational requirements; · if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to comply with the applicable provisions of the “Jets for Jobs” protocol; · if our FAA operating certificate is suspended or revoked; or · in the event that we or an affiliate of ours shall have commenced the provision of flight services under the code share between US Airways and Republic Airline and such agreement is subsequently terminated, among other things. Under a commuter slot option agreement that we and US Airways entered into on September 22, 2005, we purchased 113 commuter slots at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport and 24 commuter slots at New York-LaGuardia Airport. We assigned the right of use for these commuter slots to US Airways and these commuter slots are being operated by US Airways and US Airways Express carriers under a licensing agreement for which US Airways pays us rent. Prior to the expiration of the agreement to license the commuter slots, US Airways has the right to repurchase all, but not less than all, of the Washington commuter slots at a predetermined price. The licensing agreement between us and US Airways for the LaGuardia commuter slots expired on December 31, 2006, but we maintain a security interest in the LaGuardia slots if US Airways fails to perform under the current licensing agreement. -11- The American Code-Share Agreement As of December 31, 2006, we operated 15 ERJ-140 regional jets for American under a fixed-fee code-share agreement and provided 90 flights per day between St. Louis and designated outlying cities. Under the code-share agreement, American retains all passenger, certain cargo and other revenues associated with each flight, and is responsible for all revenue-related expenses. We share revenue with American for certain cargo shipments. Additionally, certain operating costs are considered "pass through" costs and American has agreed to reimburse us the actual amount of costs we incur for these items. Fuel, landing fees, hull and liability insurance and aircraft property tax costs are pass through costs. Aircraft lease payments are also considered a pass through cost, but are limited to a specified limit with respect to the first 20 aircraft put into service for American. American pays us periodically throughout the month on an agreed schedule, subject to American's right to offset amounts we owe them under the code-share agreement. A reconciliation payment will be made by American to us if uncontrollable cancellations exceed a specified level of scheduled block hours during any calendar quarter. If American terminates the code-share agreement for cause, American has a call option to require that we assign to American all of its rights under the leases of aircraft, and to lease to American the aircraft to the extent we own them, used at that time under the code-share agreement. If American exercises their call option, we are required to pay certain maintenance costs in transferring the aircraft to American's maintenance program. If American terminates the code-share agreement without cause, we have the right to put the leases of the aircraft, or to lease the aircraft to American to the extent owned by us, used under the code-share agreement to American. American also has a call option to require us to assign to American these leases. If we exercise our put or American exercises their call, both parties are obligated to implement a schedule to terminate the code-share agreement in an orderly fashion and transition the aircraft from us to American. The term of the American code-share agreement continues until February 1, 2013. American may reduce the term by one year each time that we fail to achieve an agreed performance level. American may only exercise this right three times during the term of the code-share agreement. The agreement may be subject to termination for cause prior to that date under various circumstances including: • a change in the regulations governing air carriers that materially affects the rights and/or obligations of either party, subject to negotiation of amendments to the code-share agreement or third party mediation; • if we or American become insolvent or fail to pay our debts as they become due, the other party may terminate the agreement subject to five business days notice and rights of assurance; • failure by us or American to perform the material terms, covenants or conditions of the code-share agreement, which includes the American standards of service, subject to 30 day notice and cure rights; • if we or American fail to make a payment when due, subject to five business days notice and cure rights; • if either party suspends or is required to suspend its operations due to any safety reason, the other party may terminate the agreement on five days notice; • if American, in its reasonable discretion, determines that we materially breached a representation or warranty to them that creates a serious and imminent threat to the safe operation of AmericanConnection services, American may immediately terminate the code-share agreement; • if we fail to achieve specified levels of operating performance in completion factor, on-time arrivals, customer complaints and baggage, American may terminate the agreement, subject to corrective action plan and adherence to such plan; or • if either party assigns, by operation of law or otherwise, the code-share agreement without the written consent of the other party, subject to five days notice and cure rights, or if we enter into any merger, sale or acquisition of all or substantially all of our assets or a majority of our outstanding voting interests with an air carrier other than an entity that is under common control with us. American may terminate the code-share agreement without cause upon 180 days notice, provided that such notice may not be given prior to September 30, 2008. If American exercises this right, it is required to reimburse us for certain costs and we and American have certain "put" and "call" rights with respect to the aircraft we operate for them. If American terminates the code-share agreement for any reason prior to September 30, 2008, or we terminate the code-share agreement prior to September 30, 2008, due to a breach of the agreement by American, American has agreed to reimburse us for certain price concessions that we granted American. -12- The Delta Code-Share Agreements As of December 31, 2006, we operated 15 ERJ-135 aircraft, 24 ERJ-145 aircraft, including two spares, and 16 ERJ-170 aircraft for Delta under fixed-fee code-share agreements. As of December 31, 2006, we provided 330 flights per day as Delta Connection between Cincinnati, Columbus and Atlanta and designated outlying cities. In connection with a marketing agreement among Delta, Continental and Northwest Airlines, certain of the routes that we fly using Delta's and Continental’s flight designator codes are also flown under Northwest's designator code. The code-share agreements for the ERJ-135/145 and ERJ-170 regional jets terminate in May 2016 and January 2019, respectively. Delta may terminate the code-share agreements at any time, with or without cause, if it provides us 180 days written notice, provided that such notice shall not be given prior to 2009 for the ERJ-135/145 regional jet agreement and 2013 for the ERJ-170 regional jet agreement. On March 13, 2007, we and Delta amended our code-share agreements. The amendments, if approved by the bankruptcy court, provide for early removal of all 15 ERJ-135 aircraft between September 2008 and April 2009 at a rate of 2 aircraft per month, and an approximate 3% reduction in the reimbursement rates on our ERJ-145/170 aircraft for the remaining term of the agreements. In return for these amended terms, Delta has agreed that we will have a negotiated pre-petition claim in the amount of $91 million, and Delta will surrender all of its warrants on approximately 3.4 million shares of our common stock. Certain of our operating costs are considered "pass through" costs, whereby Delta has agreed to reimburse us the actual amount of costs we incur for these items. Fuel, engine maintenance expenses, landing fees, passenger liability insurance, hull insurance, war risk insurance, de-icing costs, and aircraft property taxes are some of the pass through costs. Aircraft rent/ownership expenses are also considered a pass through cost, but the reimbursement is limited to specified amounts for certain aircraft. For each additional aircraft put into service for Delta beyond the initial 22, Delta receives a warrant to purchase 60,000 shares of our common stock. In accordance with this provision, on February 3, 2003 we granted Delta a warrant to purchase 720,000 shares of common stock, on October 1, 2003 we granted Delta a warrant to purchase an additional 300,000 shares of common stock and on March 10, 2004 we granted Delta a warrant to purchase an additional 480,000 shares of common stock. In December 2004, the parties agreed to reduce the amount of such warrants by 45%. In addition, in December 2004, we issued Delta a warrant for 960,000 shares in connection with Delta entering into an ERJ-170 code-share agreement with us. For illustrative purposes only, we estimate that, should Delta acquire all of the common stock they are entitled to acquire under their warrants and assuming the warrant shares are 100% vested, Delta will own approximately 7.4% of our common stock. The initial term of the ERJ-135/145 code-share agreement is until May 31, 2016. At the end of the term, Delta has the right to extend the agreement for an additional five years on the same terms and conditions. If either we or Chautauqua enter into a merger where we are not the surviving entity or the ultimate beneficial ownership of the surviving entity following a merger is not substantially similar (i.e., at least 75% common ownership) to the ultimate beneficial ownership of us or Chautauqua prior to the merger (which we refer to as a merger), or if a party acquires more than 49% of our voting power or outstanding common stock or that of Chautauqua (with limited exceptions) (which we refer to as a change in control), Delta shall have the right to extend the term of the code-share agreement for an additional ten years beyond the applicable termination date of the agreement. The agreement may be subject to early termination under various circumstances including: • if either Delta or we file for bankruptcy, reorganization or similar action (or if any such action is imminent) or if either Delta or we make an assignment for the benefit of creditors; • if either Delta or we commit a material breach of the code-share agreement, subject to 30 days notice and cure rights; or • upon the occurrence of an event of force majeure that continues for a period of two or more consecutive months, subject to 30 days prior written notice to the party affected by the force majeure event. In addition, Delta may immediately terminate the code-share agreement upon the occurrence of one or more of the following events: • if there is a change in control of us; • if there is a merger involving us; • if Delta is unsatisfied with the product quality we are providing 30 days after it has supplied us written notice of its dissatisfaction and has proposed remedial measures; • if we fail to maintain a specified completion rate with respect to the flights we operate for Delta during a specified period; or • if our level of safety is not reasonably satisfactory to Delta, subject to 30 days notice and cure period. In addition, Delta may terminate the code-share agreement at any time, with or without cause, if it provides us 180 days written notice, provided that such notice shall not be given prior to November 2009. If Delta does choose to eliminate any aircraft at that time, it may not reduce the number of aircraft in service to less than 12 during the 12-month period following the 180 day initial notice period unless it completely terminates the agreement. We refer to this as Delta's partial termination right. -13- The United Code-Share Agreements We have entered into fixed-fee code-share agreements with United to operate seven ERJ-145 aircraft and 28 ERJ-170 aircraft to provide United Express Service in markets to be determined by United. As of December 31, 2006, we provided 195 flights per day as United Express between Chicago, Washington D.C. and designated outlying cities. The fixed rates that we receive from United under the code-share agreements are annually adjusted in accordance with an agreed escalation formula. Additionally, certain of our operating costs are considered "pass through" costs whereby United has agreed to reimburse us the actual amount of costs we incur for these items. Fuel and oil, landing fees, war risk insurance, liability insurance and aircraft property taxes are pass through costs. The agreements terminate on June 30, 2014 and June 30, 2015, respectively. United has the option of extending each agreement for five years or less; however, the ERJ-145 code-share agreement may be terminated by United upon 18 months prior written notice provided that such notice shall not be delivered prior to December 31, 2008. In addition, the code-share agreements may be terminated under the following conditions: • if either party becomes insolvent, is not regularly paying its bills when due without just cause, takes any step leading to its cessation as a going concern, makes an assignment of substantially all of its assets for the benefit of creditors or a similar disposition of the assets of the business, or either ceases or suspends operations; or • if either party fails to fulfill an obligation under the code-share agreements for a period of thirty days after written notice to cure. United also may terminate the code-share agreements upon at least thirty days notice and subject to our right to cure under the following conditions: • Our operations fall below certain minimum operating thresholds for a period of three consecutive months or any six month period in a rolling 12 month period regarding controllable flight completion, mishandled bags and on-time performance; or • We knowingly maintain falsified books or records or submit false reports of a material nature. United may immediately terminate the respective code-share agreements if Chautauqua Airlines or Shuttle America operates, except pursuant to preexisting agreements with US Airways and Delta, any additional regional jets or turboprop aircraft pursuant to a marketing or code-share relationship with any party other than United to provide hub service at United’s hubs in Denver, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Washington, D.C. or Seattle. Chautauqua Airlines and Shuttle America also cannot engage or attempt to engage, on its behalf or on behalf of a third party, in the business of providing air transportation at any of United’s hubs or for any carrier that has or attempts to have hub operations at any of United’s hubs, or operate any additional regional jets or turboprops with any party other than United to provide hub service at United’s hubs. United has a call option to assume our ownership or leasehold interest in certain aircraft if we wrongfully terminate the code-share agreements or if United terminates the agreements for our breach for certain reasons. The Continental Code-Share Agreement As of July 21, 2006, we entered into a code-share agreement with Continental to provide and operate forty-four 50-seat regional jets as a Continental Express carrier. We will transition 20 ERJ-145 aircraft from our US Airways operations and we plan to lease 24 CRJ-200 regional jets to fulfill the commitment. As of December 31, 2006, four leases for such CRJ-200 aircraft had been obtained, and we have commitments to lease the remaining 20 CRJ-200 aircraft. The first six aircraft were placed into service in January 2007 and the last aircraft is expected to be placed into service in August 2007. Continental is responsible for Chautauqua Airlines' reasonable out-of-pocket costs of preparing each covered aircraft, other than the spare aircraft, up to a maximum amount, prior to its being placed into service. The aircraft are operated under the agreement on terms that vary from two years to five years. Under certain conditions, Continental may extend the term on the aircraft up to five additional years. All fuel will be purchased directly by Continental and will not be charged back to Chautauqua Airlines. Under the agreement, Continental purchases all capacity at predetermined rates and industry standard pass-through costs. In connection with a marketing agreement among Delta, Continental and Northwest Airlines, certain of the routes that we fly using Delta's and Continental’s flight designator codes are also flown under Northwest's designator code. The term of the agreement is effective as of January 8, 2007 and, unless earlier terminated or extended, will continue until July, 2012. The agreement may be subject to early termination under various circumstances, including: -14- • immediately, by Continental, upon the occurrence of an event that constitutes cause, subject to prior written notice to us; or • if either Continental or we commit a material breach of the code-share agreement, subject to two business days notice if we breach the agreement and five business days notice if Continental breaches the agreement; or • if there is a change in control of us or Continental. The Frontier Code-Share Agreement On January 11, 2007, we entered into a code-share agreement with Frontier. Under the agreement, we will provide and operate seventeen 76-seat Embraer 170 regional jets for Frontier and expect to begin service in March 2007. Frontier will purchase all capacity at predetermined rates and will directly pay or reimburse Republic Airline for industry standard pass-through costs. The first aircraft is expected to be placed into service in March 2007 and the last aircraft in December 2008. The agreement has a term of eleven years from the date of the last aircraft delivery. Frontier has the option to extend the agreement for up to six additional years. All fuel will be purchased directly by Frontier and will not be charged back to Republic. Republic Airline is responsible for all costs and expenses of preparing each covered aircraft prior to its being placed into service. The term of the agreement is effective as of March, 2007, and, unless earlier terminated or extended, will continue until December 2019. The agreement may be subject to early termination under various circumstances including: • immediately, by Frontier, upon the occurrence of an event that constitutes cause, subject to prior written notice to us; or • if either Frontier or we commit a material breach of the code-share agreement, subject to two business days notice if we breach the agreement and five business days notice if Frontier breaches the agreement; or • if there is a change in control of us or Frontier. Competition and Economic Conditions The airline industry is highly competitive. We not only compete with other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or are operated as code-share partners of major airlines, but also face competition from low-fare airlines and major airlines on some of our routes. The principal competitive factors in the regional airline industry are location, fare pricing, frequent flyer loyalty programs, customer service, routes served, flight schedules, aircraft types and code-share relationships. Certain of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter our markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Generally, the airline industry is highly sensitive to general economic conditions, in large part due to the discretionary nature of a substantial percentage of both business and pleasure travel. In the past, many airlines have reported decreased earnings or substantial losses resulting from periods of economic recession, heavy fare discounting, high fuel prices and other factors. Economic downturns combined with competitive pressures have contributed to a number of bankruptcies and liquidations among major and regional carriers. The effect of economic downturns is somewhat mitigated by our fixed-fee arrangements with respect to our flights. In addition, if our major airline code-share partners remain financially strained by low ticket prices or high fuel prices, they will likely seek to reduce our fixed-fees or reduce the number of flights we operate in order to reduce their costs. Government Regulation All interstate air carriers are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation, referred to as the DOT, the Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, the TSA, or Transportation Security Administration and certain other governmental agencies. Regulations promulgated by the DOT primarily relate to economic aspects of air service, those of the TSA to security and those of the FAA to safety. The FAA requires operating, air worthiness and other certificates; approval of personnel who may engage in flight maintenance or operations activities; record keeping procedures in accordance with FAA requirements; and FAA approval of flight training and retraining programs. Generally, governmental agencies enforce their regulations through, among other mechanisms, certifications, which are necessary for our continued operations, and proceedings, which can result in civil or criminal penalties or revocation of operating authority. The FAA can also issue maintenance directives and other mandatory orders relating to, among other things, grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety-related items and the mandatory removal and replacement of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. We believe that we are operating in material compliance with FAA regulations and hold all necessary operating and air worthiness certificates and licenses. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. Our flight operations, maintenance programs, record keeping and training programs are conducted under FAA approved procedures. -15- The DOT allows local airport authorities to implement procedures designed to abate special noise problems, provided such procedures do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national transportation system. Certain airports, including the major airports at Boston, Washington, D.C., Chicago, Los Angeles, San Diego, Orange County (California) and San Francisco, have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of such operations. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in services or increases in operating costs, and such restrictions could limit our ability to commence or expand our operations at affected airports. Local authorities at other airports are considering adopting similar noise regulations. Pursuant to law and the regulations of the DOT, we must be effectively controlled by United States citizens. In this regard, our President and at least two-thirds of our Board of Directors must be United States citizens and not more than 25% of our voting stock may be owned or controlled by foreign nationals, although subject to DOT approval the percent of foreign economic ownership may be as high as 49%. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: Risks Related To Our Operations We are dependent on our code-share relationships with our major partners. We depend on relationships created by our regional jet code-share agreements with US Airways, American, Delta, United, Continental and Frontier for all of our passenger revenue. Any material modification to, or termination of, our code-share agreements with any of these partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of our operations and the price of our common stock. Each of the code-share agreements contains a number of grounds for termination by our partners, including our failure to meet specified performance levels. In addition, American may terminate its code-share agreement without cause upon 180 days notice, provided such notice may not be given prior to September 30, 2008. If American terminates its code-share agreement for cause, it has the right to require us to assign to them our leases of all ERJ-140 regional jets then operating under the code-share agreement or to lease such jets to them to the extent we own them. If American terminates our code-share agreement other than for cause, we have the right to require American to assume our leases of all ERJ-140 regional jets then operating under the code-share agreement, or to lease such jets from us to the extent we own them. Delta may partially or completely terminate its code-share agreement with respect to the ERJ-135/145 aircraft, with or without cause, on 180 days written notice at any time after November 2009, and may partially or completely terminate its code-share agreement with respect to the ERJ-170 aircraft, with or without cause, on 180 days written notice at any time after 2013. If Delta exercises this right under either agreement or if we terminate either agreement for cause, we have the right to require Delta either to purchase, sublease or assume the lease of aircraft leased by us with respect to any of the aircraft we previously operated for Delta under that agreement. If we choose not to exercise this right, or if Delta terminates either agreement for cause, Delta may require us to sell or sublease to it or Delta may assume the lease of aircraft leased by us with respect to any of the aircraft we previously operated for it under that agreement. On March 13, 2007, we and Delta reached an agreement to amend our code-share agreements. Delta has submitted the amendments to the bankruptcy court for approval, and the amendments are currently docketed for action on March 27, 2007. United may terminate its code-share agreement with respect to the ERJ-145 aircraft without cause on 18 months prior written notice, provided that such notice may not be delivered prior to December 31, 2008. If we wrongfully terminate our code-share agreement, breach certain provisions thereof or fall below certain minimum operating thresholds for three consecutive months or any six month period in a rolling 12 month period, United can assume our ownership or leasehold interests in the jets we operate for them. Each of Continental and Frontier may terminate these code share agreements with cause or if we breach certain provisions thereof including a breach of our guaranty granted to each of them. In addition, because substantially all of our passenger revenues are currently generated under the code-share agreements, if any one of them is terminated, our operating revenues and net income will be materially adversely affected unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements or, alternatively, fly under our own flight designator code, including obtaining the airport facilities and gates necessary to do so. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into substitute code-share arrangements, that any such substitute arrangements would be as favorable to us as the current code-share agreements or that we could successfully fly under our own flight designator code. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively, US Airways accounted for approximately 24%, 21% and 38% of our passenger revenues, Delta accounted for approximately 35%, 34% and 36% of our passenger revenues, American accounted for approximately 11%, 13% and 16% of our passenger revenues and United accounted for approximately 30%, 32% and 10% of our passenger revenues. We commenced flying for Continental in January 2007 and we expect to commence flying for Frontier in March 2007. Our code-share agreement with Delta will be terminated if Delta does not emerge from bankruptcy. Delta is attempting to reorganize its business under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code. Under the terms of our code-share agreement with Delta, if the plan of reorganization is not confirmed in Chapter 11 bankruptcy or if the bankruptcy is converted to liquidation under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code, then our code-share agreements will be terminated. Although we are entitled to recoup certain expenses in connection with the aircraft, including certain fees paid to the manufacturer as well as our ownership costs of the aircraft for a transitional period of time, a termination of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating revenues and net income unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements for the utilization of these aircraft by other code-share partners, or, alternatively, obtain the airport facilities and gates and make the other arrangements necessary to fly under our own flight designator code. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into substitute code-share arrangements, that any such substitute code-share arrangements would be as favorable to us as the current code-share arrangements with Delta, or that we could, in the alternative, successfully fly under our own flight designator code. We may be unable to redeploy smaller aircraft removed from service in response to our code-share partners' demand for larger aircraft. Certain of our code-share partners have requested that we replace ERJ-145 and smaller aircraft with larger regional jets. To the extent that we agree to remove an ERJ-145 or smaller aircraft from service, we must either sell or sublease the aircraft to another party or redeploy it in order to cover our carrying expenses for that aircraft. Our inability to sell, sublease and/or redeploy aircraft that have been removed from service could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. -16- If the financial strength of any of our code-share partners decreases, our financial strength is at risk. We are directly affected by the financial and operating strength of our code-share partners. In the event of a decrease in the financial or operational strength of any of our code-share partners, such partner may be unable to make the payments due to us under its code-share agreement. In addition, it may reduce utilization of our aircraft to the minimum levels specified in the code-share agreements. US Airways and United have recently emerged from bankruptcy, and Delta is still attempting to reorganize under bankruptcy protection. On March 13, 2007, we and Delta amended our code-share agreements. Delta has submitted the amendments to the bankruptcy court for approval, and the amendments are currently docketed for action on March 27, 2007. In addition, it is possible that any code-share agreement with a code-share partner that files for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code may not be assumed in bankruptcy and could be modified or terminated. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our operations and the price of our common stock. As of February 1, 2007, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, respectively, maintained ratings of B- and B3 for US Airways, B and B3 for AMR Corp., the parent of American, B and B2 for UAL Corp., the parent of United, B and B3 for Continental. Ratings for Delta and for Frontier Airlines Holdings, Inc., the parent of Frontier, are not available. Our code-share partners may expand their direct operation of regional jets thus limiting the expansion of our relationships with them. We depend on major airlines such as our code-share partners to contract with us instead of purchasing and operating their own regional jets. However, some major airlines own their own regional airlines and operate their own regional jets instead of entering into contracts with us or other regional carriers. For example, American and Delta have acquired many regional jets which they fly under their affiliated carriers, American Eagle, with respect to American, and Comair, with respect to Delta. In addition, US Airways is operating regional jets through its PSA subsidiary. We have no guarantee that in the future our code-share partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of purchasing their own regional jets or entering into relationships with competing regional airlines. They are not prohibited from doing so under our code-share agreements. In addition, US Airways previously announced that, pursuant to an agreement with its pilots, US Airways will not enter into agreements with its regional affiliates to fly ERJ-190 and higher capacity regional jets and it is possible that our other partners will make the same decision. A decision by US Airways, American, Delta, United, Continental or Frontier to phase out our contract based code-share relationships and instead acquire and operate their own regional jets or to enter into similar agreements with one or more of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Any labor disruption or labor strikes by our employees or those of our code-share partners would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. All of our pilots, customer service employees, flight attendants and dispatchers are represented by unions. Collectively, these employees represent approximately 76% of our workforce as of December 31, 2006. Although we have never had a work interruption or stoppage and believe our relations with our unionized employees are generally good, we are subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or may incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on the amended terms of their collective bargaining agreements, we may be subject to work interruptions and/or stoppages. Any sustained work stoppages could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations under our code-share agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Under the terms of our jet code-share agreement with US Airways, if we are unable to provide scheduled flights as a result of a strike by our employees, it is only required to pay us for certain fixed costs for specified periods. Under the terms of the code-share agreements with American, Delta, United, Continental and Frontier, none of them are required to pay us any amounts during the period our employees are on strike and we are unable to provide scheduled flights. A sustained strike by our employees would require us to bear costs otherwise paid by our code-share partners. In addition, a labor disruption other than a union authorized strike may cause us to be in material breach of our code-share agreements, all of which require us to meet specified flight completion levels during specified periods. Our code-share partners have the right to terminate their code-share agreements if we fail to meet these completion levels. Our current growth plans may be materially adversely affected by substantial risks, some of which are outside of our control. We plan to acquire an additional 43 Embraer ERJ-170/175 regional jets by the end of 2008, 38 of which are subject to firm orders. At December 31, 2006, we had an agreement to place 30 of the 38 firm orders into service. Currently, we have agreements to place all 38 firm orders into service. We have financing commitments in place for all of these firm orders. In addition, we plan to lease an additional 20 CRJ-200 aircraft. If we are incorrect in our assessment of the profitability and feasibility of our growth plans, if circumstances change in a way that was unforeseen by us or if we are unable to consummate financing for these aircraft, we may not be able to grow as planned. Under our code-share agreements, we are obligated to place in service an additional 71 regional jets through 2008, including four ERJ-170 regional jets that are not assigned to any of our code-share partners as of December 31, 2006 and four CRJ-200 regional jets which have been leased as of December 31, 2006 and which were placed into service with Continental in January 2007, at an aggregate cost, excluding the cost of acquiring the aircraft and related parts, to us of approximately $14.7 million. These costs, which are related to the acquisition of these aircraft, include the acquisition of related additional ground and maintenance facilities and support equipment, the employment of approximately 1,700 additional employees and the integration of those aircraft, facilities and employees into our existing operations. In January 2007, our Chautauqua operating subsidiary began operating CRJ-200 aircraft and is no longer operating just one fleet type. Historically, each of our operating subsidiaries have operated with one fleet type to take advantage of the efficiencies in employee training, aircraft maintenance, lower spare parts inventory requirements and aircraft scheduling. As we expand Chautauqua’s operations to include more than one fleet type, some of these efficiencies may no longer be realized. As of December 31, 2006, we had options to purchase an aggregate of 79 regional jets from Embraer. If we choose to exercise options to purchase aircraft from Embraer prior to obtaining a commitment from existing or future code-share partners to place the aircraft in service, we will be obligated to purchase the aircraft from Embraer and to bear the cost of operation even if we cannot place the aircraft in service with a code-share partner, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our ability to manage our growth effectively and efficiently requires us to continue to accurately forecast our equipment and human resources needs and to continue to expend funds to improve our operating, financial and management controls, reporting systems, procurement process and procedures. In addition, we must effectively expand, train and manage our employee base, which could be costly. Our growth will place a significant strain on our management and other corporate resources. If we are unable to manage our anticipated growth effectively and efficiently, our business could be harmed. -17- Our growth plans may be adversely affected by our code-share agreements with American and Delta. Chautauqua’s American agreement requires us to provide regional airline services exclusively for American at its St. Louis hub and within 50 statute miles of that hub. This agreement also prohibits us from providing competing regional hub services at Memphis, Nashville and Kansas City and means that, without American's consent, we are prohibited from operating flights under our own flight designator code or on behalf of any other air carrier providing "hub" services in or out of these airports. Chautauqua's Delta agreement prohibits it from conducting code-share flying into several major metropolitan airports, except under its existing code-share agreements with American and US Airways. Republic Airline’s Delta agreement prohibits it from conducting code share flying into several major metropolitan airports, except under its existing code-share agreement with United. Pursuant to the terms of Chautauqua's and Republic Airline’s code-share agreement with Delta, we are prohibited from operating aircraft other than for Delta except for (1) those we operates for our existing code-share partners, (2) the additional aircraft it may operate under its existing agreements and (3) aircraft subject to other limited exceptions. Furthermore, pursuant to the terms of our code-share agreements with United, except for our current code-share flying, Shuttle America and Chautauqua are prohibited from operating 50 seat or larger regional jets or turboprops from United’s current hub airports. United’s hub airports are Denver, Washington Dulles, Los Angeles, Chicago O'Hare, Seattle and San Francisco. Our code-share partners may be restricted in increasing the level of business that they conduct with us, thereby limiting our growth. In general, the pilots' unions of certain major airlines have negotiated collective bargaining agreements that restrict the number and/or size of regional aircraft that a particular carrier may operate. A "scope" clause in US Airways' current collective bargaining agreement with its pilots prevents US Airways from using more than 465 regional jets not flown by its pilots in its operations. There are no quantity limitations in the US Airways “scope” limitations for small regional jets. For purposes of this “scope” restriction, a small regional jet is defined as any aircraft configured with 78 or fewer seats. For purposes of this limitation, a large regional jet is an aircraft configured with 79 to 90 passenger seats. US Airways can outsource up to an additional 55 aircraft, including the ERJ-175 and CRJ-900, configured with more than 78 seats but less than 90 seats, subject to certain limitations. We cannot assure you that US Airways will contract with us to fly any additional aircraft. Our ability to participate in additional regional jet flying for US Airways is subject to the further limitation that we employ furloughed US Airways pilots. Our utilization of US Airways pilots was approved by our pilots union; however, they limited their approval to 80 additional aircraft for US Airways which includes the 28 ERJ-170s which we obtained from US Airways and the incremental ten aircraft that will be placed in service in 2008. A "scope" clause in American's current collective bargaining agreement with its pilots limits it from operating regional jets having 51 or more seats. A "scope" clause in Delta's current collective bargaining agreement with its pilots restricts it from operating regional jets having more than 70 to 76 seats and limits it from operating more than 175, or under certain circumstances, 200 regional jets having 70 to 76 seats. United’s "scope" limitations restrict it from operating aircraft configured with more than 70 seats or any aircraft weighing more than 83,000 pounds. Continental’s “scope” limitations restrict it from operating regional jets configured with more than 51 seats. American's "scope" limitations further limit its code-share partners, in our case Chautauqua, from operating regional jets with 51 or more seats even for partners other than American. Delta's "scope" limitations restrict its partners from operating aircraft with over 70 seats even if those aircraft are operated for an airline other than Delta. Neither US Airways, United, Continental nor Frontier have similar "scope" limits on the size of aircraft we can operate for our other code-share partners. We cannot assure you that these "scope" clauses will not become more restrictive in the future. Any additional limit on the number of regional jets we can fly for our code-share partners could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and the price of our common stock. Our fleet expansion program will require a significant increase in our leverage and the financing we require may not be available on favorable terms or at all. The airline business is very capital intensive and, as a result, many airline companies are highly leveraged. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, our mandatory debt service payments totaled $79.9 million and $53.4 million, respectively, and our mandatory lease payments totaled $99.5 million and $82.0 million, respectively. We have significant lease obligations with respect to our aircraft, which aggregated approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2006 and $883.6 million at December 31, 2005. Our current growth strategy involves the acquisition by purchase or leases of at least 63 more regional jets through 2008, including 20 CRJ-200 regional jets which we intend to lease, but not including the four unassigned 70-seat regional jets and four CRJ-200 regional jets leased, but not in operation as of December 31, 2006. Embraer's current aggregate list price for the 43 Embraer regional jets that we expect to acquire from Embraer is approximately $1.3 billion. We expect to lease or otherwise acquire on credit a substantial portion of these Embraer regional jets, which will increase significantly our mandatory lease and debt service payments. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to make such payments or that we will be able to obtain financing to acquire the additional aircraft or make other capital expenditures necessary for our expansion. If we default under our loan or lease agreements, the lender/lessor has available extensive remedies, including, without limitation, repossession of the respective aircraft and other assets and, in the case of large creditors, the effective ability to exert control over how we allocate a significant portion of our revenues. Even if we are able to timely service our debt, the size of our long-term debt and lease obligations could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock in many ways, including: • increasing the cost, or limiting the availability of, additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes; • limiting the ways in which we can use our cash flow, much of which may have to be used to satisfy debt and lease obligations; and •adversely affecting our ability to respond to changing business or economic conditions or continue our growth strategy. If we need funds and cannot raise them on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to realize our current plans or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities and could be required to slow or stop our growth. -18- We currently depend on Embraer to supply us with the aircraft we require to expand. Currently, we are obligated under our code-share agreements to place an additional 43 Embraer regional jets in service through 2008, not including four 70-seat regional jets delivered, but unassigned as of December 31, 2006. We are dependent on Embraer as the manufacturer of all of these jets. Our risks in relying primarily on a single manufacturer include: • the possibility that Embraer could refuse, or may not be financially able, to perform its obligations under the purchase agreement for the delivery of the regional jets; • a fire, strike or other event could occur that affects Embraer's ability to completely or timely fulfill its contractual obligations; • the failure or inability of Embraer to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis; • the interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for these aircraft; • the issuance of FAA directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Embraer regional jets or requiring time-consuming inspections and maintenance; and • the adverse public perception of a manufacturer as a result of an accident or other adverse publicity. Any disruption or change in the delivery schedule of these Embraer regional jets would affect our overall operations and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our code-share agreements. Further, ERJ-170 and ERJ-175 aircraft began operating in the commercial airline market in February 2004 and July 2005, respectively. As relatively new products, these aircraft have been, and may continue to be, subject to unforeseen manufacturing and/or reliability issues. Our operations could be materially adversely affected by the failure or inability of Embraer or any key component manufacturers to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis or by an interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for our aircraft. Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under the fixed-fee agreements would adversely impact our revenues and earnings. Our agreements with US Airways, American, Delta, United, Continental and Frontier require each of them to schedule our aircraft to a minimum level of utilization. However, the aircraft have historically been utilized more than the minimum requirement. Even though the fixed-fee rates may adjust, either up or down, based on scheduled utilization levels or require a fixed amount per day to compensate us for our fixed costs, if our aircraft are at or below the minimum requirement (including taking into account the stage length and frequency of our scheduled flights) we will likely lose both the opportunity to recover a margin on the variable costs of flights that would have been flown if our aircraft were more fully utilized and the opportunity to earn incentive compensation on such flights. For example, as a result of Delta's bankruptcy, Delta has utilized our smaller aircraft at less than historical levels. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, will directly impact our earnings. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs, and we have experienced pressure to increase wages and benefits for our employees. Under our code-share agreements, our reimbursement rates contemplate labor costs that increase on a set schedule generally tied to an increase in the consumer price index or the actual increase in the contract. We are entirely responsible for our labor costs, and we may not be entitled to receive increased payments for our flights if our labor costs increase above the assumed costs included in the reimbursement rates. As a result, a significant increase in our labor costs above the levels assumed in our reimbursement rates could result in a material reduction in our earnings. We have collective bargaining agreements with our pilots, customer service employees, flight attendants and dispatchers. Our pilots, dispatchers and flight attendant agreements are amendable in October 2007, February 2007 and September 2009, respectively. Our Customer Service Agreement is currently amendable and being negotiated and we expect it to be amended in 2007. We cannot assure you that future agreements with our employees' unions will be on terms in line with our expectations or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors, and any future agreements may increase our labor costs and reduce both our income and our competitiveness for future business opportunities. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Bryan Bedford, and our other key management and operating personnel. American can terminate its code-share agreement if we replace Mr. Bedford without its consent, which cannot be unreasonably withheld. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. We maintain a "key man" life insurance policy in the amount of $10 million for Mr. Bedford, but this amount may not adequately compensate us in the event we lose his services. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. Our business is labor intensive. We intend to hire a large number of pilots, flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other personnel associated with our expansion plans. The airline industry has from time to time experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we have, from time to time, faced considerable turnover of our employees. Although our employee turnover has decreased significantly since September 11, 2001, our pilots, flight attendants and maintenance technicians sometimes leave to work for larger airlines, which generally offer higher salaries and more extensive benefit programs than regional airlines are financially able to offer. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, the result will be significantly higher training costs than otherwise would be necessary. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to carry out our expansion plans or to replace departing employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to complete our expansion plans, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. We are at risk of losses stemming from an accident involving any of our aircraft. While we have never had a crash over our 33 year history, it is possible that one or more of our aircraft may crash or be involved in an accident in the future, causing death or injury to individual air travelers and our employees and destroying the aircraft and the property of third parties. -19- In addition, if one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident we would be exposed to significant tort liability. Such liability could include liability arising from the claims of passengers or their estates seeking to recover damages for death or injury. There can be no assurance that the insurance we carry to cover such damages will be adequate. Accidents could also result in unforeseen mechanical and maintenance costs. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and a decrease in revenues. Such a decrease could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Wexford Capital has significant influence over our affairs by virtue of its significant ownership of our common stock and they may make decisions with which you disagree. WexAir LLC, which is owned by several investment funds managed by Wexford Capital, on a fully diluted basis, owns beneficially approximately 16% of our common stock. As a result of its significant level of ownership, Wexford Capital and its affiliates have significant influence over matters affecting us, including the election of directors as long as they own or control a significant percentage of our common stock. They may make decisions which you and other stockholders will not be able to affect by voting your shares. We may have conflicts of interest with Wexford Capital, and because of its significant ownership, we may not be able to resolve these conflicts on an arm's length basis. Wexford Capital and its affiliates are actively engaged in the airline business. Conflicts of interest may in the future arise between Wexford Capital and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand, in a number of areas relating to our business and our past and ongoing relationships. Factors that may create a conflict of interest between Wexford Capital and us include the following: • Wexford Capital may in the future make significant investments in other airline companies that directly compete with us; • sales or distributions by WexAir LLC of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; and • two of our directors also are directors, managing members or general partners of Wexford Capital and its affiliates. Wexford Capital is under no obligation to resolve any conflicts that might develop between it and its affiliates and us in a manner that is favorable to us and we cannot guarantee that such conflicts will not result in harmful consequences to our business or future prospects. In addition, Wexford Capital and its affiliates are not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which they are aware, and they are not contractually restricted or prohibited from competing with us. We have specifically renounced in our certificate of incorporation any interest or expectancy that Wexford Capital and its affiliates, including its directors and officers, will offer to us any investment or business opportunity of which they are aware. Risks Associated with the airline industry The airline industry is highly competitive. Within the airline industry, we not only compete with other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as code-share partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low-fare airlines and major airlines on many of our routes, including carriers that fly point to point instead of to or through a hub. Other low-fare carriers serve the Indianapolis International Airport, which results in significant price competition in the Indianapolis market, one of our major markets. Competition in the eastern United States markets, which we service from US Airways' hubs in New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. and from Delta's hub in Cincinnati, and Atlanta, is particularly intense, due to the large number of carriers in those markets. In addition, some of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter our markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. In addition to traditional competition among airlines, the industry faces competition from video teleconferencing and other methods of electronic communication. New advances in technology may add a new dimension of competition to the industry as business travelers seek lower-cost substitutes for air travel. Continued high fuel costs would harm the airline industry. Fuel costs constitute a substantial portion of the total operating expenses of the airline industry. There have been significant increases in fuel costs and continued high fuel costs such as those which have been experienced during 2006 would harm the airline industry's financial condition and results of operations. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues, supply and demand and other factors. Fuel availability is also affected by demand for home heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Further, in the event of a fuel supply shortage or further increases in fuel prices, a curtailment of scheduled service could result. The airline industry has been subject to a number of strikes which could affect our business. The airline industry has been negatively impacted by a number of labor strikes. Any new collective bargaining agreement entered into by other regional carriers may result in higher industry wages and increase pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Furthermore, since each of our code-share partners is a significant source of revenue, any labor disruption or labor strike by the employees of any one of our code-share partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. -20- Airlines are often affected by certain factors beyond their control, including weather conditions which can affect their operations. Generally, revenues for airlines depend on the number of passengers carried, the fare paid by each passenger and service factors, such as the timeliness of departure and arrival. During periods of fog, ice, low temperatures, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. For example, in 2005, Hurricane Wilma forced us to suspend some of our operations in Florida for a number of days. Under our fixed-fee code-share agreements, we are partially protected against cancellations due to weather or air traffic control, although these factors may affect our ability to receive incentive payments for flying more than the minimum number of flights specified in our code-share agreements. Should we enter into pro-rate revenue sharing agreements in the future we will not be protected against weather or air traffic control cancellations and our revenues could suffer as a result. The airline industry has recently gone through a period of consolidation and transition; consequently, we have fewer potential partners. Since 1978 and continuing to the present, the airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. For example, in April 2001, American acquired the majority of Trans World Airlines, Inc.'s assets. Our relationship with American resulted from this transaction. Other recent developments include the domestic code-share alliance between United and US Airways, a similar new relationship among Delta, Continental and Northwest and the merger of America West and US Airways. We, as well as our code-share partners, routinely monitor changes in the competitive landscape and engage in analysis and discussions regarding our strategic position, including potential alliances and business combination transactions. Further consolidation could limit the number of potential partners with whom we could enter into code-share relationships. Any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could materially adversely affect our relationship with our code-share partners. The airline industry is heavily regulated. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne wind shear avoidance systems, noise abatement, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety related items and removal and replacement of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our Embraer regional jets, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as Embraer regional jets, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of Embraer regional jets at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For instance, "passenger bill of rights" legislation was introduced in Congress that, if enacted, would have, among other things, required the payment of compensation to passengers as a result of certain delays and limited the ability of carriers to prohibit or restrict usage of certain tickets. This legislation is not currently active but if it is reintroduced, these measures could have the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and increasing costs. Restrictions on the ownership and transfer of airline routes and takeoff and landing slots have also been proposed. In addition, as a result of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. in September 2001, the FAA and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) have imposed stringent security requirements on airlines. We cannot predict what other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and we cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. Since our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ National Market (now the NASDAQ Global Select Market) on May 27, 2004, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $8.15 to a high of $20.60 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • announcements concerning our code-share partners, competitors, the airline industry or the economy in general; • strategic actions by us, our code-share partners or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • media reports and publications about the safety of our aircraft or the aircraft types we operate; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry specific economic conditions; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings or our code-share partners; and • general market conditions. -21- The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources and harm our business. Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the availability of a large number of shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. Our incorporation documents and Delaware law have provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could negatively affect your investment. In addition to the fact that Wexford Capital, through its affiliates owns approximately 16% of our common stock, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; • provide that a supermajority vote of our stockholders is required to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements to nominate directors for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These and other provisions in our incorporation documents and Delaware law could allow our board of directors to affect your rights as a stockholder by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace board members. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. In addition, these provisions could deprive our stockholders of opportunities to realize a premium on the shares of common stock owned by them. Our charter documents include provisions limiting voting by foreign owners. Our certificate of incorporation provides that shares of capital stock may not be voted by or at the direction of persons who are not citizens of the United States if the number of such shares would exceed applicable foreign ownership restrictions. U.S. law currently requires that no more than 25% of the voting stock of our company or any other domestic airline may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not citizens of the United States. Additional Information The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission"). These materials can be inspected and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of these materials may also be obtained by mail at prescribed rates from the SEC's Public Reference Room at the above address. Information about the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC's Internet site is www.sec.gov. On our website, rjet.com/Investment.asp, we provide free of charge our Annual Report on Form 10K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The code of ethics, adopted by our Board of Directors, which applies to all our employees, can also be found on our website, rjet.com/Investment.asp. Our audit committee charter is also available on our website. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable -22- ITEM 