D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making any investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and results of operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Management of Liquidity We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our businesses, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness and remain in compliance with Class B convertible non-voting shares minimum dividend. We have significant financial obligations, as summarized in “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As of December 31, 2011, our bank borrowings amounted to €3,400 million (December 31, 2010: €3,342 million). Our borrowing levels pose significant risks, including: · increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; · requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of interest on the indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund short term operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditures and future business operations; 11 Table of Contents · exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, as most of the borrowings are at variable rates of interest; and · limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt. Further, if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations or Class B shares minimum dividend, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or further restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Restrictive covenants in our agreements governing our indebtedness could adversely affect our businesses and operating results by limiting flexibility. The agreements governing the terms of our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants and requirements to comply with certain leverage and other financial maintenance tests. Many of these agreements also include cross default provisions applicable to other agreements, meaning that a default under any one of these agreements could result in a default under our other debt agreements. These covenants and requirements limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and sales of assets. On December 26, 2011 we signed an agreement to refinance our bank borrowings, extending the different maturities of the loans to 2014/2015 and eliminating the schedule for amortizations previously established for the syndicated loan to transform it into a bullet loan. This agreement also modified our financial covenants in order to permit our compliance at year-end 2011 and to adapt the future level of covenants to the new financial estimation. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors, who may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions. Further, these covenants could adversely impact our businesses by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. Our loans are subject to fluctuations in interest rates which may not be adequately protected, or protected at all, by our hedging strategies. The terms of our bank debt provide exclusively for variable interest rates, and therefore we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates (see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”). Consequently, we arrange interest rate hedges through contracts providing for interest rate caps (interest rate swap agreements and combination of options) as far as there are lines of credit available. There can be no certainty that our hedging activities will be successful or fully protect us from interest rate exposure. If we cannot arrange interest rate hedges or our hedging strategy is inadequate or the counterparties to the hedging agreements become insolvent, we may not be capable of fully or partially neutralizing the risks associated with changes in interest rates, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. At the date of this filing, €284 million of our outstanding debt is hedged. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of the various countries in which we operate. Our foreign currency risk relates mainly to operating income (revenues) generated outside of the European market, resulting from operations carried on in non-euro zone countries which are tied to the performance of their respective currencies, the acquisition of audiovisual rights from international suppliers of television content and financial investments made to acquire ownership interests in foreign companies. Our principal foreign currencies are the U.S. dollar, Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Argentine peso, Chilean peso and Colombian peso. In order to mitigate this risk and, as far as there are credit lines available, we arrange hedges to cover the risk of changes in exchange rates (mainly foreign currency hedges and forwards) on the basis of our projections and budgets. If our hedging strategy is inadequate or the counterparties in the hedging arrangements become insolvent, we may not be capable of fully or partially neutralizing the risks associated with the changes in the exchange rate, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have negative working capital at the end of the year We have closed 2011 period with negative working capital, mainly due to payments of past due suppliers. This situation may be repeated in 2012 due to the same reasons. If we are not able to generate positive short term cash flow, enough to cover those payments, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or further restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet the short term liabilities. 12 Table of Contents We have significant minority interests in some cash generating companies Although we full consolidate all our businesses, we have significant minority interests in some cash generating companies, to highlight the 44% minority interests in DTS. The parent company has access to DTS cash through dividends. The evolution of operations and financial condition of DTS will directly affect the dividends received by the parent company. To the extent the dividend is part of the cash flow of the parent company, among other sources, in case those dividends were not enough, Prisa cash flow might be adversely affected and make more difficult the attendance of its obligation. Fluctuations in the price of paper could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to the possibility of fluctuations in our results due to changes in the price of paper, an essential raw material for certain of our production processes. Paper is the main raw material of our printed media. In 2011 and in 2010, paper purchase expenses represented 3.1% and 3.6%, respectively, of our total consolidated operating expenses in those years (without considering charges for depreciation and amortization or impairment losses). We have established a program for strategically monitoring changes in paper prices, the aim of which, bearing in mind the cyclical nature of changes in paper prices, is to hedge the price of a percentage of the volume of paper that we expect to consume in the medium term. However, an increase in those prices or an interruption of supply could adversely affect our press and book publishing businesses and, therefore, adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial position. We have tax credits for export activities discussed by tax authorities A significant portion of the tax credits for export activities generated by the Group in the past, totaling €253 million, has been questioned in various tax audits, since the tax authorities considered that the requirements for use of this tax benefit had not been met. We do not concur with the position of the tax authorities and have appealed. To cover a probable unfavorable ruling on the issues in question, we have recorded a provision of €183 million. The outcome of the current proceedings could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have significant tax assets (tax losses and tax credits) that we may not be able to use if the company or tax group at which the tax asset arose does not generate sufficient income. As of December 31, 2011, we have recognized tax assets amounting to €1,167 million in our consolidated financial statements. Of this amount, €823 million relates to tax assets recorded at a 30% rate arising from tax loss carryforwards as a result mainly of prior years’ losses (totaling €2,537 million) of the Prisa Televisión (formerly Sogecable) companies. The deadline for recovering these tax assets by offsetting them against future profits, according to the new tax law approved in August 2011, is 18 years from the tax year in which they were generated (or of the year in which the company concerned first earns a profit, which is the case with DTS). This new law states than only in 2011, 2012 and 2013, compensation of tax losses is limited to the 50% of the amount of the tax income carryforward which has been generated previously to the compensation. Since these assets were earned mainly by companies outside the scope of the Prisa consolidated tax group, they will have to be recovered outside of this scope, i.e., they will have to be offset against the individual profits of each company at which they arose. Of the remainder, €344 million (including unused tax credits for export activities amounting to €207 million out of the €253 million mentioned above), relates mainly to investment tax credits which are deducted from the income tax charge. The deadline for taking these credits against future profits, in accordance with the Corporation Tax Law, is ten years from the date on which they were earned. In addition to this deadline, restrictions apply as to the amount that may be used each year, to the extent that, of the balances available for use, credits corresponding to only 35% of the gross tax payable (resulting, in turn, from 30% of the taxable profit less double taxation tax credits) in that year may be used. Should our businesses fail to produce sufficient profits in the future against which these tax assets (tax loss carryforwards and tax credits) may be used within the time horizon indicated, such credits would be lost, which could significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition. Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized are reassessed at the end of each reporting period in order to ascertain whether they still exist, and the appropriate adjustments are made on the basis of the findings of the analyses performed and the tax rate then in force. Future Generation of Tax assets for nondeductible Financial Expenses in the Spanish Corporate Tax As a result of the tax reform published the 31st of March, the deductibility of the financial expenses is limited to the 30% of the adjustment EBITDA, for tax purpose. The amount of nondeductible financial expenses can be offset, under the same conditions, and with the same limit, against future profits in the corporate tax of the following eighteen years. Therefore, that amount not deducted could generate a future tax asset. 13 Table of Contents With the current structure of financial debt in the Group Prisa, this tax reform will generate a tax asset for the amount of nondeductible financial expenses each tax year. The measure approved does not mean, in the current situation of our businesses, any further cash out in the Prisa tax group in year 2012, nor it is expected to have any cash impact in the following tax years, and it is not expected to have an impact on the Profit and loss account either in the next years. As it happens with the other tax assets, should our businesses fail to produce sufficient profits in the future against which these tax assets may be used within the time horizon indicated, could generate the consequences mentioned in the third paragraph of the previous factor risk. We have guaranteed certain significant obligations of Dédalo Grupo Gráfico, S.L., and our financial position and results of operations could be significantly affected if these guarantees were to be called. We account for our 40% investment in Dédalo, the head of a group of companies engaged in the printing and copying of texts and mechanical binding, using the equity method. In recent years, Dédalo’s subsidiaries, which are engaged in the printing of books and in the printing of magazines and sales brochures using offsetting and photogravure, have incurred ongoing losses, primarily as a result of increased competition in the printing markets in which they operate and restructuring costs that they incurred in relation to these activities to adjust to the demand in those markets. In 2008, Dédalo and its subsidiaries entered into a syndicated loan and credit agreement for €130 million, principally to cover restructuring costs and operating losses of the photogravure and offsetting businesses. We have guaranteed the full amount outstanding under the agreement and the related hedges since November 2009. As of December 31, 2011, the outstanding debt of this loan amounts to €105 million. Additionally in March 2010, Prisa entered with the other shareholders of Dédalo Grupo Gráfico, S.L., into a reciprocal purchase and sale agreement for the shares of Dédalo Grupo Gráfico, S.L. Under this agreement, on the one hand, Prisa had a call option, on the additional 60% of Dédalo Grupo Gráfico, S.L. and, on the other, the other shareholders could exercise their put option if any of the Dédalo Group companies were to become subject to insolvency proceedings. The strike price for both the options was EUR 1. The circumstance is not met at December, 2011. From April, 1, 2012 the call option described above is exercisable. Consequently, according to the IFRS, Prisa has to full consolidate its investment in Dédalo Grupo Gráfico from that date on. This integration has not a significant impact in the consolidated financial statement of Grupo Prisa. If any of the Dédalo companies were to fail to comply with their financial obligations or to successfully restructure the printing business, this could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial position. Risks Relating to Prisa and the Industries in which We Operate Economic conditions may adversely affect our businesses and customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Spain and other countries in which we operate have experienced slowdowns and volatility in their economies. This downturn has led to and could lead to further lower spending on our products and services by customers, including advertisers, subscribers, licensees, retailers and other consumers of our content offerings and services. In addition, in unfavorable economic environments, our business customers may have difficulties obtaining capital to finance their ongoing businesses and operations and may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely payments and continue operations. We cannot predict the duration and severity of weakened economic conditions and such conditions and resultant effects could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. A decline in advertising expenditures could cause our revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. A significant portion of our operating income (revenues) depends on the revenues generated from the advertising market through our press, radio and audiovisual businesses, together with the digital business activities that we operate across all business areas. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities. Demand for our products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. For example, ratings points for our radio stations, television audience levels and circulation levels for our newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates. A drop in advertising revenue could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents The use of alternative means of delivery for newspapers and magazines may adversely affect our businesses. Revenue in the newspaper and magazine publishing industry is dependent primarily upon advertising revenue, subscription fees and sale of copies. The use of alternative means of delivery, such as free Internet sites, for news and other content has increased significantly in recent years. Should significant numbers of customers choose to receive content using these alternative delivery sources rather than through our product offerings, we may face a long-term decline in circulation, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and we may not successfully react to competitors’ actions. The press, radio, education, audiovisual, digital, media distribution, advertising and publishing industries in which we operate are highly competitive. To compete effectively in these industries we must successfully market our products and react appropriately to our competitors’ actions, both by launching new products or services and by adjusting our pricing strategies. Such rigorous competition poses an ongoing challenge to our ability to increase audience share, increase sales, retain our present customers, attract new customers and improve our profit margins. Furthermore, the regulatory policies of many countries in which we conduct business tend, where possible, to enable increased competition in most of the industries in which we operate. These countries have in the past granted, and can be expected to continue to grant, new licenses enabling the entry of new competitors into the marketplace. Such entries have the potential to reduce our revenues or make our operations less profitable. We may not be capable of competing successfully with current or future industry participants, and the entry of new competitors into the industries in which we currently operate may reduce our revenue, market share or profitability. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. We may fail to adequately evolve our business strategy as the industry segments in which we compete further mature. Our principal lines of business, specifically press, radio, education, audiovisual, media distribution, advertising and publishing, are conducted in mature industry segments typified by moderate growth rates (or, in some cases, declining demand), standardized product offerings, a significant number of competitors and difficulties in developing and offering new products and services to consumers. Advertising revenues represent a significant portion of our revenue (23% of our 2011 operating income). According to December 2011 Zenith Optimedia estimates, advertising expenditure in Spain is expected to decline by 2.0% in 2012 (-5.8% according to i2P) and is expected to grow by 4.0% and 7.0% in 2013 and 2014, respectively, which represents a 5.47% compound annual rate for 2012-2014. This same source estimates that advertising expenditure in television in Portugal will grow by 1.1%, 5.5% and 5.5% in 2012, 2013 and 2014 respectively and advertising expenditure in radio in Latin America will grow by 4.8%, 4.8% and 5.4% in 2012, 2013 and 2014 respectively. According to the PricewaterhouseCoopers Global Entertainment and Media Outlook 2011-2015 Report, the digital component of newspaper advertising revenue in Spain is estimated to grow at a 11.1% compound annual rate. However, daily newspaper paid print unit circulation in Spain is expected to decline at a 1.6% compound annual rate. Sales of books and training represented 26% of our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011. Regarding the total spending in the print educational book market, the report shows that Spain is expected to grow in the period 2011-2015 (+1.3%). In Latin America, the report expects a 3.4% compound annual rate over the same period. Revenue from subscribers represented 33% of our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011. In relation to the pay television subscription market, the report states that the subscription market in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region competes with free multichannel services and free satellite services in several countries, so even though in terms of penetration there is still room to grow, the market is effectively close to saturation in terms of available households not currently served by multichannel television. Consequently, subscription services are investing in their infrastructure to provide more channels, including HD, enhancing their VOD offerings and launching applications to allow subscribers watch programs online or on mobile devices. The report states that growth for 2011-2015 will average 4.1% compounded annually, including increases of less than 4% in 2014 and 2015. We must adopt new strategies to adequately address the challenges posed by this competitive climate. These new strategies may include capturing the benefits of economies of scale, cost reduction, better use of production capacity, increased employee productivity and achieving product and service differentiation through innovative marketing, product design, customer service and organization, among others, to provide us with a competitive edge over other industry participants and enhance the effectiveness of our response to customer demands. 15 Table of Contents Our failure to adapt strategically to the continuing maturity of the industries in which we operate or to adopt appropriate business strategies in the future could result in the loss of our current market share and, consequently, could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to liability stemming from the content of our publications and programming. Although we attempt to verify the lawfulness of the content of our publications, programs and broadcasts, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not bring claims against us in connection with our public dissemination of publications and the broadcasting of programs. We could be required to publish corrections to any such broadcasts or publications. We could be ordered to pay damages, retract statements or restrict the content of our publications or programs if we are found to have infringed third party rights, any of which could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in highly regulated industries and are therefore exposed to legislative, administrative and regulatory risks that could adversely impact our businesses. Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulations including the requirement to maintain concessions and licenses for our operations in our Audiovisual and Radio segments. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or in their interpretation, may occur and may substantially impact our business operations, including by requiring changes to our business methods, increasing our costs of doing business or by forcing us to cease conducting business in those segments. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. Television & Radio Our radio and television operations in both Europe and Latin America are subject to government regulation and are conducted under revocable administrative concessions or licenses. Applicable radio and television regulations cover, among other matters, minimum coverage, necessary technical specifications, program content and permissible advertising. The regulations also cover the ownership and transfer of equity interests in companies engaged in the regulated activities. We provide a considerable portion of our services under licenses or concessions granted by the governments and administrative bodies of the countries in which we operate. These licenses and concessions require us to comply with the imposed terms and conditions, including with specified investment commitments and established geographic coverage requirements, and to meet established service quality standards. The performance of such obligations is frequently secured by guarantees. In the event of any failure to comply with applicable law or the terms and conditions of a license or a concession, supervising authorities may review or revoke the license or concession or impose penalties on us. The continuity and the terms of the licenses and concessions may be subject to review by the relevant regulatory bodies and the regulators may also construe, amend or terminate a license or a concession. In the event of termination of a concession or license, we may not have access to any meaningful means of redress and termination could significantly adversely affect our business, results of its operations and financial condition. Our business and our ability to meet the targets established by our strategic plan would be adversely affected in the event that any new legislation or regulations impose more restrictive provisions or more burdensome compliance requirements than those presently in effect or otherwise significantly quantitatively or qualitatively impact any of our licenses or concessions, or if such licenses or concessions were not to be renewed or are revoked, thereby negatively impacting our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Publishing Our book publishing operations are subject to both general legislation applicable to book publishing as well as legislation regulating the publication of educational materials specifically applicable to textbooks. In addition, in Spain, Autonomous Community legislation (legislation by principal governmental bodies responsible for primary and secondary education, universities and higher education and other state-funded education) imposes various obligations on publishers of educational material and textbooks, and the legislation enacted in support of these functions is extensive. Should we breach any of our statutory obligations with respect to the publication of educational materials and textbooks, penalties could be imposed on us and our textbooks and other educational material could be declared unsuitable. Should the adoption of book lending in schools by the Spanish Autonomous Communities increase, the sale of textbooks and other educational material would be reduced. Any of these developments could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations outside of Spain subject us to risks typical to investments in countries with emerging economies. For the year ended December 31, 2011 approximately 24% of our operating revenues was derived from operations in Latin America. 16 Table of Contents Various risks typical to investments in countries with emerging economies could adversely affect our operations and investments in Latin America, the most significant of which include: · the possible devaluation of foreign currencies or introduction of exchange restrictions, or other restrictions imposed on the free flow of capital across borders; · the potential effects of inflation and/or the possible devaluation of local currencies, which could lead to equity deficits at our subsidiaries operating in these countries and require us either to recapitalize the affected subsidiaries or wind up the operations of any such affected subsidiary; · the potential for foreign government expropriation or nationalization of our foreign assets; · the potential for substantial changes in applicable foreign tax levels or the introduction of new foreign taxes or levies; · the possibility of changes in policies and/or regulations affecting the economic climate or business conditions of the foreign markets in which we operate; and · the possibility of economic crises, economic instability or public unrest, which could have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries. Any of the above circumstances could adversely impact both our ability to grow our operations in the affected countries and our results of operations and financial position. If we do not successfully respond to the rapid technological changes that characterize our businesses, our competitive position may be adversely impacted. In order to maintain and grow our business, we must adapt to technological advances, for which research and development are key factors. Technological changes could give rise to new competitors in our various businesses and provide new opportunities for existing competitors to increase market share at our expense. Consequently, should we fail to keep sufficiently abreast of the current and future technological developments in the industry, this could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our capacity to achieve our business, strategic and financial objectives. Losses in excess of insurance, or losses resulting in increases to insurance premiums or failure to renew, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although all of our companies maintain insurance policies with scope and coverage which we believe to be consistent with industry practices, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be significantly adversely affected by any exposure to a significant uninsured risk, any incurrence of losses significantly exceeding our insurance coverage, or any considerable increase in our insurance premiums due to claims in any given year significantly exceeding the historical level of claims. Furthermore, as our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal, we may not be able to renew our existing policies on similar or favorable terms and conditions, if at all. We are subject to material litigation that, if unfavorably determined, could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. As of the date of this annual report, we are a party to various lawsuits. Since these proceedings are in progress, we cannot reliably anticipate the outcome thereof, nor can we fully assess the consequences of potential judgments. A judgment adverse to our interests could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we are required to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management’s attention from executing our business plan. 17 Table of Contents We depend significantly on our pay television business and negative developments in this market could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2011, revenue from the Spanish pay television market through Canal+ (formerly known as Digital+) accounted for 36.6% of our operating income. Our share of the total pay television market in Spain in terms of revenues is 58.6%, according to the Spanish Telecommunication Market Commission (CMT) 3Q report 2011. The growth and profitability of the Canal+ business are dependent on developments in the pay television industry as a whole, as well as on changes in the film production and distribution industry. Industry developments impact: · our ability to stimulate pay television consumption, win new subscribers and increase the rate of penetration of pay television among homes with televisions; and · our ability to ensure the future continuity of the supply of television programming produced by third parties, specially the soccer rights since our current contract terminates by the end of season 2011/2012. Should the market for pay television suffer a downturn or a significant reduction in subscribers, this would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on a number of third-party infrastructures and technological systems for the provision of services to subscribers and any breakdown thereof could interrupt those services. Currently, Prisa Televisión has contracts for the supply of satellite transmission services with the operators Hispasat, S.A. and Société Européenne des Satellites, S.A., or SES ASTRA. The provision by Prisa Televisión of satellite television services through Canal+ depends on these supply contracts remaining in force. The revocation, termination or failure to renew these contracts could prevent Prisa Televisión from providing its subscribers with satellite television services and could lead to an interruption in these services and adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The ongoing European sovereign debt crisis and a possible recession in the Eurozone could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since late 2009, the sovereign debt markets of the Eurozone have undergone substantial stress, especially with respect to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. The sovereign debt crisis has contributed to a weakening of the business environment and financial markets in the Eurozone, raising the possibility that Europe may currently be in a recession. Austerity programs introduced by a number of countries across the Eurozone in response to the sovereign debt crisis may also be contributing to a decline in economic growth. If European policymakers are unable to resolve the sovereign debt crisis, our results of operations and financial position would likely be materially and adversely affected. As described above, weak economic conditions may adversely affect our business and our customers. In addition, efforts by our lenders to preserve capital in the face of sovereign debt write-downs and increased regulatory capital requirements has reduced overall lending and could material adversely affect our ability to refinance our outstanding indebtedness. Furthermore, one or more members of the Eurozone could leave the common currency, which could have unpredictable financial, legal, political and social consequences, and could result in a widespread loss of investor confidence. Our systems to operate and protect our digital activities may be insufficient to protect against service interruptions or fraudulent activities. Our digital activities generated €55 million in revenues in 2011, a 6.7% increase over 2010. Our digital activity depends on Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), online service providers and our system infrastructure to allow users to access the sites we operate, as well as on technologies and network systems to handle transactions and user information securely over the Internet. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in access to our sites could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our security and network systems could also be tested and subject to attack by third parties seeking to commit fraud. Any such attack could cause delay, interruption or financial loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The failure of our controlling shareholder group to continue to hold, directly or indirectly, at least 30% of our share capital may trigger change of control provisions contained in a material shareholders agreement among shareholders of DTS. If holders of a sufficient number of Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares convert their shares into Prisa Class A ordinary shares and our existing controlling shareholder group does not exercise a sufficient number of its warrants to maintain ownership of, directly or indirectly, at least 30% of Prisa’s Class A ordinary shares, then the change of control provision contained in a material agreement may be triggered pursuant to the definition of “change of control” as defined in such agreement. The terms of the shareholders agreement among the shareholders of DTS (Prisa Televisión, Telefónica and Telecinco) provide that, within 15 days of learning of a change of control of Prisa, each of Telefónica and/or Telecinco may require Prisa Televisión to sell all of its shares in DTS to Telefónica and/or Telecinco, pro rata, at a purchase price to be determined by internationally recognized investment banks chosen by each party. In the event of a change of control, through Prisa Televisión, we could lose our stake in our pay television business. 18 Table of Contents A change of control of Prisa is defined in the shareholders agreement as (i) the Prisa controlling shareholder group ceasing to own at least 30% of Prisa’s share capital or (ii) the existence of an individual Prisa shareholder or a group of Prisa shareholders (acting jointly through one or more voting agreements) holding an ownership interest in Prisa greater than the ownership interest held by the Prisa controlling shareholder group. Additionally the shareholders agreement provides minority shareholders first refusal and veto rights, among other usual rights in this kind of transactions. The loss of our stake in our pay television business would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Supermajority and other voting provisions in our bylaws, along with the existence of a controlling shareholder group, may have the effect of discouraging potentially interested parties from seeking to acquire us or otherwise influence the outcome of significant matters affecting our shareholders. Our bylaws require a 75% supermajority shareholder vote to approve bylaw amendments, increases or reductions in our share capital, mergers and similar extraordinary transactions and, in some cases, the election of directors not nominated by our board of directors. Our controlling shareholder group currently controls over 30% of our total voting power. As a result, these bylaw provisions may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of Prisa not supported by the controlling shareholder group or otherwise precluding corporate actions that the controlling shareholder group opposes, even if supported by a majority of our voting shares. Because Prisa is a holding company and its assets are held primarily by its subsidiaries, we may not be able to pay dividends on our Class B convertible non-voting shares, even if we have sufficient distributable profits on a consolidated basis to make such payments. The Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares issued in connection with the business combination are entitled to receive a minimum annual dividend of €0.175, but only to the extent that Prisa has sufficient “distributable profits” for the applicable year, as that term is defined by the 2010 Spanish Companies Act (the "Spanish Companies Act"), or sufficient premium reserve created by the issuance of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares. If Prisa has no distributable profits in a given year or insufficient premium reserve created by the issuance of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares, then no dividend will be payable for such year, and if Prisa has distributable profits in a given year or premium reserve created by the issuance of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares which are insufficient to pay the annual dividend in full, then a partial dividend will be paid for such year, up to the amount of such distributable profits and premium reserve created by the issuance of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares (so long as there is no legal restriction against such payment). Any unpaid dividends will accumulate from year to year. Under Spanish law, the determination of whether Prisa has distributable profits does not take into account the assets or profits of any of Prisa’s subsidiaries. Prisa is a holding company with no significant operating assets other than through its ownership of shares of, or other interests in, its subsidiaries. Prisa receives substantially all of its operating income from its subsidiaries. Prisa’s subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and they will have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay dividends or distribute any amounts to Prisa, or to otherwise make any funds available to Prisa, to allow Prisa to pay dividends on the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares. In addition, the ability of Prisa’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to Prisa may be subject to, among other things, applicable laws and/or restrictions contained in agreements or debt instruments to which such subsidiaries are bound. In addition, third parties own substantial interests in certain of Prisa’s subsidiaries and, accordingly, Prisa must share with minority shareholders any dividends paid by these subsidiaries. Prisa had, on a non-consolidated basis, a loss of approximately €617 million in 2011, a distributable profit of €9.3 million in 2010 and a loss in 2009. Although Prisa has agreed to propose to its shareholders a resolution requiring Prisa to exercise its voting rights to cause its subsidiaries to deliver distributable profits to Prisa, there can be no assurance that the subsidiaries will be able to distribute such profits to Prisa, or that the amount of the distributable profits will be enough to allow Prisa to pay the minimum annual dividend on the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares. As a result, Prisa may not be able to pay all or a portion of the dividend payable on the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares, even if Prisa and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, have profits in an amount greater than that needed to pay the minimum annual dividend. The amount of the premium reserve created by the issuance of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares was fixed prior to closing of the business combination as the difference between the issuance price of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares and the nominal amount of such shares (€0.10). The premium reserve created by the issuance of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares may be reduced as a result of losses in Prisa. 19 Table of Contents In addition any remaining accumulated dividends at the time of conversion (whether voluntary or automatic at the 42-month anniversary of issuance) will be paid on or before the date on which Prisa Class A ordinary shares are delivered in exchange for the converted Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares to the extent there are distributable profits for the year of conversion or the previous year (if the minimum dividend for such year has not been declared) that are permitted by applicable law to be paid out. At that time, Prisa will determine and pay both the amount of the annual dividend payable for the portion of the year of conversion during which the shares subject to conversion remained outstanding and the amount of dividend that remained accrued at the time of conversion. Any such dividends (whether for the portion of the year of, or accrued at the time of, conversion) that do not become payable at that time due to the lack of sufficient distributable profits for that year or lack of available premium reserve will not thereafter become payable or be paid. Based on the number of Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares issued in the business combination (approximately 403 million shares), an aggregate annual minimum dividend of €70.5 million would have been payable on the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares for each of 2009, 2010 and 2011. For 2009, since Prisa did not have distributable profits for the year, Prisa would have been obligated to pay the entire €70.5 million out of a charge against the premium reserve.For 2010, Prisa is obligated to pay €0.014583 per Class B convertible non-voting share. For 2011, Prisa is obligated to pay the entire of approximately €70 million out of a charge against the premium reserve. According to article 99 of the Spanish Corporate Enterprises Act, if the minimum dividend is not paid up, the non voting shares shall be entitled to the voting right under the same terms and conditions as ordinary shares until it is fully paid. Risks Relating to Taxation You may have to pay taxes on constructive distributions without receiving a corresponding distribution of cash or property. If the conversion ratio of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares into Prisa Class A common shares is increased, as provided in the terms of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares, holders of Prisa ADS-NVs may be treated as having received a constructive distribution if such increase in the conversion ratio has the effect of increasing the proportionate interest of such holders in Prisa’s earnings and profits or assets. In such a case, holders may be required to include an amount in income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, notwithstanding that they do not receive such distributions. 20 Table of Contents 