Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS A small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material negative impact upon our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our revenues were $1.30 billion and our operating expenses were $1.29 billion. A small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material negative impact on our operating results because some of our fixed costs, such as our base rent, would not decrease during times of lower revenues and could not be reduced to offset other expenses which may be increasing. The failure of Medicare and Medicaid rates to match our costs will reduce our income or create losses. Some of our current operations, especially our SNFs, receive significant revenues from Medicare and Medicaid. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2013, we derived approximately 24% and 23%, respectively, of our senior living revenues from continuing operations from these programs. The Obama Administration and some members of Congress have proposed Medicare and Medicaid policy changes and rate reductions to take effect during the next several years. The ACA includes provisions that may result in future payment rates for a fiscal year being less than payment rates for a preceding fiscal year for SNFs. Effective as of October 1, 2011, CMS reduced aggregate Medicare payment rates for SNFs by approximately 11.1% for federal fiscal year 2012. We are unable to predict 16 Table of Contents how the continued Medicare rate reductions under the ACA will affect our future financial results of operations. In addition, our revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings and policy interpretations, and payment delays. Pursuant to the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, the federal budget includes automatic spending reductions through 2023, including reductions of up to 2% to Medicare providers, but exempting reductions to Medicaid and certain Medicare benefits. In February 2014, Congress approved an additional one year extension of Medicare sequestration, through 2024. We are unable to predict the future financial impact on us of the automatic payments cuts; however, these payment cuts had an adverse impact on our operations and financial results during 2013 and may continue to have similar or worse impacts in the future. Congress extended the process to allow medically necessary exceptions to annual caps on Medicare Part B payments for outpatient rehabilitation services to individual patients through March 31, 2015, but strict caps on reimbursement for these services will go into effect on April 1, 2015 if another extension is not granted. In addition, our Medicare Part B outpatient therapy revenue rates are tied to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, or MPFS. Although the MPFS had previously been scheduled to be reduced by more than 25% in 2013, MPFS rates remained fixed at the 2012 level throughout 2013, increased 0.5% for the period between January 1, 2014 and December 31, 2014, and are scheduled to be reduced by up to 24% effective April 1, 2015. Unless the reduction is once again delayed, it will likely result in a reduction of our Medicare Part B rates for outpatient therapy services and could be materially adverse to our future financial results of operations. Some of the states in which we operate either have not raised Medicaid rates by amounts sufficient to offset increasing costs, have frozen or reduced Medicaid rates, or are likely to freeze or reduce Medicaid rates. Many states are experiencing difficult fiscal conditions or budgetary constraints, thus increasing the likelihood of Medicaid rate reductions, freezes or increases that are insufficient to offset increased operating costs. Also, certain temporary increases in federal payments to states for Medicaid programs ended on June 30, 2011. The ending of these temporary federal payments, combined with the anticipated slow recovery of state revenues, has resulted in and is expected to result in continued challenging state fiscal conditions. Some state budget deficits will likely increase, and it is possible that certain states will reduce Medicaid payments to healthcare service providers like us as part of an effort to balance their budgets. The ACA currently provides for an expansion of Medicaid eligibility beginning in 2014, which has the potential to increase Medicaid enrollment. The U.S. Supreme Court has held, however, that states may choose not to participate in the Medicaid expansion program without risking the loss of federal Medicaid funding. As of August 28, 2014, 21 states have elected not to broaden Medicaid eligibility under the ACA at this time and, instead, forgo the federal funds that would otherwise be available for Medicaid expansion, and two remain undecided. We cannot currently estimate the magnitude of the potential Medicare and Medicaid rate reductions, the impact of the failure of these programs to increase rates to match increasing expenses, the impact of states that choose not to expand Medicaid eligibility and the impact on us of potential Medicare and Medicaid policy changes proposed by members of Congress and the Obama Administration, but they may be material to our operations and may affect our future results of operations. We cannot now predict whether future Medicare and Medicaid rates will be sufficient to cover our costs. Future Medicare and Medicaid rate declines or a failure of these rates to cover our costs could result in our experiencing materially lower earnings or losses. 17 Table of Contents Circumstances that adversely affect the ability of seniors or their families to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on us. Our residents paid approximately 77% of our senior living revenues from continuing operations during the year ended December 31, 2013 from their private resources. We expect to continue to rely on the ability of our residents to pay for our services from their own financial resources. Inflation, continued high levels of unemployment, market declines affecting the value and liquidity of personal assets, or other circumstances that adversely affect the ability of the elderly or their families to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seniors' inability to sell real estate may delay their moving into senior living facilities. Recent housing price declines and reduced home mortgage financing availability have negatively affected the U.S. housing market. Although home prices and sales activity have recently been generally increasing, they continue to be below levels experienced prior to the recent economic recession in the United States. Further, although mortgage financing availability has improved since the recession, interest rates have generally increased; if interest rates rise sharply, the prices for homes or sales activity may decline. Difficulties in the U.S. housing market may have a negative effect on our revenues or lead to increased reliance on Medicare and Medicaid for our revenues. Specifically, if seniors have a difficult time selling their homes, fewer seniors may relocate to our senior living communities or finance their stays at our facilities with private resources. Private third party payers continue to try to reduce healthcare costs. Private third party payers such as insurance companies continue their efforts to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, increased utilization review practices and greater enrollment in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These third party payers increasingly demand discounted fee structures and the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk. These efforts of third party payers to limit the amount of payments we receive for healthcare services could adversely affect us. Reimbursement payments under third party payer programs may not remain at levels comparable to present levels or be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients participating in such programs. Future changes in, or renegotiations of, the reimbursement rates or methods of third party payers, or the implementation of other measures to reduce payments for our services could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. At the same time, as a result of competitive pressures, our ability to maintain operating margins through price increases to private pay residents may be limited. Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act could reduce our income and increase our costs. The ACA contains insurance changes, payment changes and healthcare delivery systems changes that have affected, and will continue to affect, us. The ACA provides for multiple reductions to the annual market basket updates for inflation that may result in reductions in SNF and IRF Medicare payment rates. In addition, certain provisions of the ACA that affect employers generally, including the employer shared responsibility provisions that become effective on January 1, 2015, may have an impact on the design and cost of the health coverage that we offer to our employees. We are unable to predict the impact of the ACA on our future financial results of operations, but it may be adverse and material. In addition, maintaining compliance with the ACA will require us to expend management time and financial resources. The ACA also establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board to submit legislative proposals to Congress and take other actions with a goal of reducing Medicare spending growth. When and if 18 Table of Contents such spending reductions take effect, they may be adverse and material to our financial results. The ACA includes other changes that may affect us, such as enforcement reforms and Medicare and Medicaid program integrity control initiatives, new compliance, ethics and public disclosure requirements, initiatives to encourage the development of home and community based long term care services rather than institutional services under Medicaid, value-based purchasing plans and a Medicare post-acute care pilot program to develop and evaluate making a bundled payment for services, including physician and SNF services, provided during an episode of care. We are unable to predict the impact on us of the insurance, payment, and healthcare delivery systems reforms contained in and to be developed pursuant to the ACA. If the changes to be implemented under the ACA result in reduced payments for our services or the failure of Medicare, Medicaid or insurance payment rates to cover our increasing costs, our future financial results could be adversely and materially affected. We have determined that we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting because we did not maintain adequate and effective internal control over accounting for income taxes and accounts payable, and we lacked sufficient personnel with requisite accounting competencies and had an insufficient level of oversight in the financial statement close process. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the value of our common shares. In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and determined that we had material weaknesses because: (1) we did not maintain adequate and effective internal control over accounting for income taxes due to our failure to timely reconcile and review our income tax accounts; (2) we did not maintain adequate and effective internal control over accounts payable due to our failure to timely identify certain incurred obligations; and (3) we lacked sufficient personnel with requisite accounting competencies and had an insufficient level of oversight in the financial statement close process. As a result, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We are continuing to develop our remediation plan for the material weaknesses described above, which currently includes enhancing internal control over accounting for income taxes to include additional layers of review by qualified persons, recruitment of additional experienced personnel for certain accounting positions, restructuring of our accounting department and providing enhanced training for employees regarding our accounting policies and procedures. We have begun to implement this remediation plan while we are continuing to develop it. Successful remediation of the material weaknesses described above requires review and evidence of the effectiveness of the related internal control processes as part of our periodic assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting. As we continue to evaluate and work to enhance our internal control over financial reporting, we may determine that additional measures should be taken to address the material weaknesses described above or other control deficiencies, or that we should modify the remediation plan. We expect that the remediation of the material weaknesses described above will be completed by December 31, 2015. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses or to design, implement and maintain new or improved controls and procedures designed to prevent additional material weaknesses, or if our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their future reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, our ability to meet our periodic reporting obligations may be adversely affected, and may result in additional errors and material misstatements not detected by management in our financial statements. Any such failure could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any such failure could also 19 Table of Contents cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could therefore adversely affect our business, results of operations and the value of our common shares. Increases in our labor costs may have a material adverse effect on us. Wages and employee benefits associated with our continuing operations were approximately 43% of our 2013 total operating costs. We compete with other operators of senior living communities to attract and retain qualified personnel responsible for the day to day operations of our communities. The market for qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive. Periodic and geographic area shortages of nurses or other trained personnel may require us to increase the wages and benefits offered to our employees in order to attract and retain these personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. Also, we may have to compete with numerous other employers for lesser skilled workers. Further, when we acquire new facilities we may be required to pay increased compensation or offer other incentives to retain key personnel and other employees. Employee benefits costs, including employee health insurance and workers' compensation insurance costs, have materially increased in recent years and, as discussed above, we cannot predict the future impact of the ACA on the cost of employee health insurance. Although we have determined our self-insurance reserves with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may be inadequate. Increasing employee health and workers' compensation insurance costs and increasing self-insurance reserves for labor related insurance may materially and negatively affect our earnings. We cannot assure that our labor costs will not increase or that any increase will be matched by corresponding increases in rates we charge to residents or other revenues. Any significant failure by us to control labor costs or to pass on any such increased labor costs to residents through rate increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which increases our costs and may result in losses. Licensing and Medicare and Medicaid laws require operators of senior living communities and rehabilitation and wellness clinics to comply with extensive standards governing operations and physical environments. Federal and state laws also prohibit fraud and abuse by senior living providers, rehabilitation and wellness clinic operators, including civil and criminal laws that prohibit false claims and that regulate patient referrals in Medicare, Medicaid and other programs. In recent years, federal and state governments have devoted increased resources to monitoring the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti-fraud investigations in healthcare generally. CMS contractors are expanding the retroactive audits of Medicare claims submitted by IRFs, SNFs and other providers, and recouping alleged overpayments for services determined by auditors not to have been medically necessary or not to meet Medicare coverage criteria as billed. State Medicaid programs and other third party payers are conducting similar medical necessity and compliance audits. When federal or state agencies identify violations of anti-fraud, false claims, anti-kickback and physician referral laws, they may impose or seek civil or criminal penalties, treble damages and other governmental sanctions, and may revoke the healthcare facility's license or make conditional or exclude the healthcare facility from Medicare or Medicaid participation. The ACA amended the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers, and for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. In addition, when these agencies determine that there have been quality of care deficiencies or improper billing, they may impose or seek various remedies or sanctions, including denial of new admissions, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid program participation, monetary penalties, restitution of overpayments, governmental oversight, temporary management, loss of licensure and criminal penalties. Certain states and the federal government may determine that citations relating to one facility affect other facilities operated by the same entity or related entities, which may negatively impact an operator's ability to maintain or renew other licenses or Medicare or Medicaid certifications or to secure new licenses or certifications. 20 Table of Contents Our communities incur sanctions and penalties from time to time. As a result of the healthcare industry's extensive regulatory system and increasing enforcement initiatives, we have experienced increased costs for monitoring quality of care compliance, billing procedures, and compliance with referral laws and other laws that apply to us, and we expect these costs may continue to increase. In addition, we have been subjected to sanctions and penalties in the past, but none have been material to us. If we become subject to additional regulatory sanctions or repayment obligations at any of our existing communities (or any of our acquired communities with prior deficiencies that we are unable to correct or resolve following the acquisition), our business may be adversely affected, and we might experience financial losses. Any adverse determination concerning any of our licenses or eligibility for Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement or any penalties, repayments, or sanctions, and the increasing costs of required compliance with applicable federal and state laws, may adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Successful union organization of our employees may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time labor unions attempt to organize our employees. If federal legislation modifies the labor laws to make it easier for employee groups to unionize, then additional groups of employees may seek union representation. If more of our employees unionize it could result in business interruptions, work stoppages, the degradation of service levels at our senior living communities due to work rules, or increased operating expenses that may adversely affect our results of operations. The nature of our business exposes us to litigation risks. The nature of our business exposes us to litigation, and we are subject to lawsuits in the ordinary course of our business. In several well publicized instances, private litigation by residents of senior living communities for alleged abuses has resulted in large damage awards against other senior living companies. Some lawyers and law firms specialize in bringing litigation against senior living companies. As a result of this litigation and potential litigation, the cost of our liability insurance has increased during the past few years. Medical liability insurance reform has become a topic of political debate and some states have enacted legislation to limit future liability awards. However, such reforms have not generally been adopted and we expect our insurance costs may continue to increase. Although our reserves for liability self-insurance have been determined with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may prove inadequate. Increasing liability insurance costs and increasing self-insurance reserves could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy may not succeed. We have grown our business through acquisitions, through initiation of long term leases of senior living communities where residents' private resources account for a large majority of revenues and through entering into long term contracts to manage senior living communities. Our business plan includes seeking to take advantage of an expected increase in demand for senior living communities and acquiring, leasing or managing additional senior living communities. Our growth strategy involves risks, including the following: •we may be unable to identify and operate additional senior living communities that receive a large percentage of their revenues from private resources; •we may be unable to identify and operate senior living communities available for purchase at acceptable prices or lease or manage such senior living communities on acceptable terms; •we may be unable to access capital to make acquisitions or operate acquired businesses; •acquired, leased or managed additional operations may not perform in accord with our expectations; 21 Table of Contents •we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to improve acquired or additional leased or managed facilities, including capital expenditures that may not have been anticipated by us at the time of the acquisition; •we may have difficulty retaining key employees and other personnel at acquired, leased or managed facilities; •acquired, leased or managed additional operations may subject us to unanticipated contingent liabilities or regulatory problems; •to the extent we incur acquisition debt or leases, our operating leverage and resulting risks of debt defaults may increase; and, to the extent we issue additional equity to fund our acquisitions, our stockholders' percentage of ownership of us will be diluted; and •combining our present operations with newly acquired, leased or managed operations may disrupt operations or cost more than anticipated. For these reasons and others: •our business plan to grow may not succeed; •the benefits which we hope to achieve by growing may not be achieved; •we may suffer declines in profitability or suffer recurring losses; and •our existing operations may suffer from a lack of management attention or financial resources if such attention and resources are devoted to a failed growth strategy. When we acquire, lease or manage new communities, we sometimes see a decline in community occupancy and it may take a period of time for us to stabilize acquired, leased or managed community operations. Our efforts to restore occupancy or stabilize acquired, leased or managed community operations may not be successful. Our rehabilitation hospitals may be subject to retroactive Medicare reclassifications or repayments. During the period we operated our rehabilitation hospitals, which were sold in the fourth quarter of 2013, Medicare payments accounted for a significant amount of the rehabilitation hospitals' revenues. CMS has established a standard known as the "60% Rule," which provides that at least 60% of an IRF's total inpatient population must require intensive rehabilitation services associated with treatment of at least one of 13 designated medical conditions in order for the facility to be classified as an IRF by the Medicare program. Although we believe that our IRFs were operated in compliance with the 60% Rule during the period in which we operated them, CMS could determine that we were non-compliant in a prior year. Such an event would result in these rehabilitation hospitals being subject to Medicare reclassification to a different type of provider and our receiving lower Medicare payment rates retroactively. Reductions in our Medicare payments as a result of the reclassification of our rehabilitation hospitals would materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Also, retroactive audits of Medicare claims submitted by IRFs and other providers are expanding, and CMS is recouping amounts paid for services determined by auditors not to have been medically necessary or not to meet Medicare criteria for coverage as billed. If our facilities were required to make substantial retroactive repayments to Medicare, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to timely file periodic reports with the SEC limits us from quickly accessing the public markets to raise debt or equity capital. We did not file this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014 by the filing dates required by the SEC; therefore, 22 Table of Contents we are not eligible to use our current shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (or file a new Form S-3 registration statement) to conduct public offerings of our securities until our filings with the SEC have been timely made for a full year. Our ineligibility to use Form S-3 during this time period will have a negative impact on our ability to quickly access the public capital markets because we would be required to file a long-form registration statement, which would be subject to an extended filing and possible review period. Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our credit agreements would adversely affect our business. Our $25.0 million Credit Agreement and our $150.0 million Credit Facility agreement, or together, our credit agreements, include various conditions to our borrowing and various financial and other covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our credit agreements we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our credit agreements at a time when borrowed amounts are outstanding under these instruments, our lenders may demand immediate payment. In addition, if we default under our credit agreements, our lenders may cease to make borrowings available to us. Any default under our credit agreements would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our securities to materially decline. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional indebtedness may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions contained in our credit agreements. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities that may require a significant amount of management resources and costs. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in preliminary discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such transactions, which could negatively impact our existing and continuing operations. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions regardless of whether these acquisitions are completed. Failure to comply with laws governing the privacy and security of personal information, including relating to health, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to comply with federal and state laws governing the privacy, security, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information, including information relating to health. Under HIPAA and the HITECH Act, as updated by the HIPAA Omnibus Rule, we are required to comply with the HIPAA privacy rule, security standards, and standards for electronic healthcare transactions. State laws also govern the privacy of individual health information, and rules regarding state privacy rights may be more stringent than HIPAA. Other federal and state laws govern the privacy of other personal information. If we fail to comply with applicable federal or state standards, we could be subject to civil sanctions and criminal penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including medical records, financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personally identifiable information of residents and other customers, payroll data and workforce scheduling information. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing this confidential information, such as personally identifiable information relating to health and financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect us. Termination of assisted living resident agreements and resident attrition could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. State regulations governing assisted living facilities typically require a written resident agreement with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate these assisted living resident agreements for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, most resident agreements allow residents to terminate their agreements on 30 days' notice. Thus, we may be unable to contract with assisted living residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with terms of up to a year or longer. If a large number of residents elected to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, our revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the advanced ages of our senior living residents makes the resident turnover rate in our senior living communities difficult to predict. Our business requires us to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve our communities. Our communities sometimes require significant expenditures to address ongoing required maintenance and to make them attractive to residents. Physical characteristics of senior living communities are mandated by various governmental authorities; changes in these regulations may require us to make significant expenditures. In addition, we often are required to make significant capital expenditures when we acquire new communities. Our available financial resources may be insufficient to fund these expenditures. SNH has historically provided most of the capital we need to improve the communities we lease from them; however, whenever SNH provides such capital, our rent increases and we may be unable to pay the increased rent without experiencing losses. In addition, for properties we manage for SNH, SNH funds these capital expenditures, resulting in the invested capital on which its returns are based increasing, which may reduce or prevent our receipt of incentive fees. We face significant competition and we may be unable to operate profitably. We compete with numerous other companies that provide senior living services, including home healthcare companies and other real estate based service providers. Although some states require certificates of need to develop new SNFs and assisted living communities, there are fewer barriers to 24 Table of Contents competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. Many of our existing competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than us. Some of our competitors are not for profit entities which have endowment income and may not have the same financial pressures that we face. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract a sufficient number of residents to our communities or that we will be able to attract employees and keep wages and other employee benefits, insurance costs and other operating expenses at levels which will allow us to compete successfully or to operate profitably. Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long term debt as of December 31, 2013 was approximately $36.5 million and represented approximately 10% of our total book capitalization as of that date. In addition to our indebtedness, we have substantial lease and other obligations. Our level of indebtedness and substantial lease and other obligations could have important consequences to our business, because: •it could affect our ability to satisfy our debt obligations; •the portion of our cash flows from operations required to make interest and principal payments will not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; •it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and •it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general than a company with less debt leverage. Climate change legislation and resulting increased energy costs at our communities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our communities to increase in the future. In the longer term, we believe any such increased costs will be passed through and paid by our residents and other customers in higher charges for our services. However, in the short term, these increased costs, if material in amount, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding climate change matters and their possible adverse impact on us, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Impact of Climate Change." RISKS ARISING FROM CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS OF OURS AND OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE We are subject to possible conflicts of interest; we have engaged in, and expect to continue to engage in, transactions with parties that may be considered related parties. Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest as follows: •as of December 31, 2013, we leased from SNH 187 of our 255 senior living communities (including 10 that we have classified as discontinued operations) for total annual rent of approximately $190.1 million plus percentage rent based on increases in gross revenues at certain properties; 25 Table of Contents •as of December 31, 2013, we managed 44 senior living communities which are owned by SNH, and during 2013, we realized $9.2 million in management fees from SNH; •we manage a portion of a senior living community for D&R Yonkers LLC, which is owned by SNH's President and Chief Operating Officer and its Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer and to which a subsidiary of SNH subleases that portion of the community; •RMR, the manager of SNH, provides business management and shared services to us; •our Chief Executive Officer, Bruce J. Mackey Jr., and our Chief Financial Officer, Paul V. Hoagland, are also officers of RMR; our Managing Directors, Barry M. Portnoy and Gerard M. Martin, are directors of RMR; and Mr. Barry Portnoy is a managing trustee of SNH and is also the majority beneficial owner and the chairman of RMR; •RMR's simultaneous contractual obligations to us and SNH create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest, and under the business management agreement with RMR, in the event of a conflict between SNH and us, RMR may act on behalf of SNH rather than on our behalf; and •we lease our headquarters from an affiliate of RMR. On December 31, 2001, SNH distributed substantially all of its ownership of our common shares to its shareholders. Simultaneously with the spin off, we entered into agreements with SNH and RMR which, among other things, limit (subject to certain exceptions) ownership of more than 9.8% of our voting shares, restrict our ability to take any action that could jeopardize the tax status of SNH as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, and limit our ability to acquire real estate of types which are owned by SNH or other businesses managed by RMR. As a result of these agreements, our leases and management contracts with SNH, and our business management agreement with RMR, SNH, RMR and their respective affiliates have significant roles in our business and we do not anticipate any changes to those roles in the future. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, SNH owned 4.2 million of our common shares, or approximately 8.7% of our outstanding common shares, and SNH is our largest stockholder. We believe that our historical and ongoing business dealings with SNH, RMR and D&R Yonkers LLC have benefited us and that, despite the foregoing possible conflicts of interest, the transactions we have entered with SNH, RMR and D&R Yonkers LLC have been commercially reasonable and not less favorable than otherwise available to us. Nonetheless, in the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, stockholder litigation, dissident stockholder director nominations and dissident stockholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with SNH, RMR, D&R Yonkers LLC, AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, Messrs. Portnoy and Martin and with other related parties of RMR may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention. Our leases of certain of our senior living communities are subordinated to mortgage debt of SNH, and a default by SNH could result in the termination of those leases. As of December 31, 2013, our leases with SNH for 27 of our senior living communities, which had 2013 revenues totaling $187.6 million, were subordinated to mortgage financing secured by such communities. As a result, in the event SNH was to default on such mortgage financing, by reason of our default under our leases or for reasons unrelated to us or beyond our control, and its lender were to foreclose on those properties, our leases would terminate as a matter of law. While we may be able to enter into new leases with the lenders or the purchaser or purchasers of such properties, or they 26 Table of Contents may elect to continue our occupancy under the terms of the lease as if there had been no foreclosure, they would not be obligated to pursue either of those options and, if we are able to retain possession, the terms of our continued occupancy may not be as favorable to us as those contained in our leases with SNH. If we do not enter into new leases of such communities following a foreclosure, we would lose the right to continue to operate these communities and we may incur material obligations to residents, employees and other parties as a result of such loss, each of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our charter, bylaws and certain material agreements, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our charter and bylaws contain separate provisions which prohibit any stockholder from owning more than 9.8% and 5% of the number or value of any class or series of our outstanding shares of stock. The 9.8% ownership limitation in our charter is consistent with our contractual obligation with SNH to not take actions that may conflict with SNH's status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. The 5% ownership limitation in our bylaws is intended to help us preserve the tax treatment of our net operating losses and other tax benefits. We also believe these provisions promote good orderly governance. These provisions inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our charter and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Directors into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control; •stockholder voting rights and standards for the election of Directors and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Directors than for actions which are approved by our Directors; •the authority of our Board of Directors, and not our stockholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Director and a requirement that certain of our Directors be "Independent Directors" and other Directors be "Managing Directors", as defined in our bylaws; •limitations on the ability of our stockholders to propose nominees for election as Directors and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders; •limitations on the ability of our stockholders to remove our Directors; and •the authority of our Board of Directors to create and issue new classes or series of stock (including stock with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common stock. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control. The terms of our leases and management contracts with SNH and our business management agreement with RMR provide that our rights under these agreements may be cancelled by SNH and RMR, respectively, upon the acquisition by any person or group of more than 9.8% of our voting stock, and upon other change in control events, as defined in those documents including, in certain of the SNH leases and management agreements, the adoption of any proposal (other than a precatory proposal) or the election to our Board of Directors of any individual if such proposal or individual was not approved, nominated or 27 Table of Contents appointed, as the case may be, by vote of a majority of our Directors in office immediately prior to the making of such proposal or the nomination or appointment of such individual. If the breach of these ownership limitations causes a default, stockholders causing the default may become liable to us or to other stockholders for damages. In addition, a termination of our business management agreement is a default under our Credit Agreement, and a change in control event of us, including upon the acquisition by any person or group of more than 9.8% (or 35% for the purposes of our Credit Facility) of our voting stock, is a default under our Credit Agreement and our Credit Facility, unless approved by our lenders. Our ownership interest in AIC may prevent stockholders from accumulating large share ownership, from nominating or serving as Directors, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any stockholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Directors or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Directors may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Directors or from taking other actions. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our Directors and officers are limited. Our charter limits the liability of our Directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Directors and officers will not have any liability to us and our stockholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by such director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our charter and contractual obligations authorize and may require us to indemnify our present and former Directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our charter or bylaws or by our Board of Directors or stockholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Directors and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our charter and contracts or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with SNH and RMR and stockholder litigation against us or our Directors and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with SNH and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that actions by our stockholders against us or against our Directors and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our stockholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against SNH, RMR or our Directors and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages 28 Table of Contents may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. We have invested approximately $6.0 million in AIC, we have purchased substantially all our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR and five other companies to which RMR provides management services each own approximately 14.3% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and a number of factors may cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly in the future if any of the risks described herein occur or in response to various factors and events, including, but not limited to: •the liquidity of the market for our common shares; •changes in our operating results; •changes in analysts' expectations; and •general economic and industry trends and conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Stockholders may be unable to resell our common shares at or above the price at which they purchased our common shares. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 