D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making any investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and results of operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Management of Liquidity We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our businesses, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our indebtedness We have significant financial obligations, as summarized in “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” During 2012 several recapitalization transactions were approved by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. The obligation to pay the preferred dividend of non-voting B shares in cash was eliminated, allowing us to pay the dividend in shares (at one euro per share), in cash or a combination of both. In addition we issued two mandatory convertible bonds, which were fully subscribed by three of our financial creditors in exchange of existing debt, and by a strategic partner that subscribed in cash. As of December 31, 2012, our bank borrowings amounted to €3,072 million (December 31, 2011: €3,400 million). Our borrowing levels pose significant risks, including: ● increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; 10 Table of Contents ● requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of interest on the indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund short term operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditures and future business operations; ● exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, as most of the borrowings are at variable rates of interest; and ● limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt. Further, if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or further restructure our debt. However, these measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Restrictive covenants in our agreements governing our indebtedness could adversely affect our businesses and operating results by limiting flexibility. The agreements governing the terms of our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants and requirements to comply with certain leverage and other financial maintenance tests. Many of these agreements also include cross default provisions applicable to other agreements, meaning that a default under any one of these agreements could result in a default under our other debt agreements. These covenants and requirements limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and sales of assets. On December 26, 2011 we signed an agreement to refinance our bank borrowings, extending the different maturities of the loans to 2014/2015 and eliminating the schedule for amortizations previously established for the syndicated loan to transform it into a bullet loan. This agreement also modified our financial covenants in order to permit our compliance at that year-end and to adapt the future level of covenants to the new financial estimation. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors, who may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions. Further, these covenants could adversely impact our businesses by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. Our loans are subject to fluctuations in interest rates which may not be adequately protected, or protected at all, by our hedging strategies. The terms of our bank debt provide exclusively for variable interest rates, and therefore we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates (see “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”). Consequently, we arrange interest rate hedges as far as there are lines of credit available, and a portion of our outstanding debt is hedged to fixed rates. There can be no certainty that our hedging activities will be successful or fully protect us from interest rate exposure. If we cannot arrange interest rate hedges or our hedging strategy is inadequate or the counterparties to the hedging agreements become insolvent, we may not be capable of fully or partially neutralizing the risks associated with changes in interest rates, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2012, €434 million of our outstanding debt is hedged. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates of the various countries in which we operate. Our foreign currency risk relates mainly to operating income (revenues) generated outside of the European market, resulting from operations carried on in non-euro zone countries which are tied to the performance of their respective currencies, the acquisition of audiovisual rights from international suppliers of television content and financial investments made to acquire ownership interests in foreign companies. Our principal foreign currencies are the U.S. dollar, Brazilian real, Mexican peso, Argentine peso, Chilean peso and Colombian peso. In order to mitigate this risk and, as far as there are credit lines available, we arrange hedges to cover the risk of changes in exchange rates (mainly foreign currency hedges and forwards) on the basis of our projections and budgets. If our hedging strategy is inadequate or the counterparties in the hedging arrangements become insolvent, we may not be capable of fully or partially neutralizing the risks associated with the changes in the exchange rate, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We reported negative working capital at year end We recorded negative working capital as of December 31, 2012 including amounts past due to suppliers. This situation may continue into 2013. If we are not able to generate sufficient positive short term cash flow to cover those payments, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or further restructure our debt. Such measures might be unsuccessful or inadequate in permitting us to meet the short term liabilities. 11 Table of Contents We have significant minority interests in some cash generating companies Although we fully consolidate all our businesses, third parties have significant minority interests in some of our cash generating companies. In particular, third parties hold a 44% minority interest in DTS, a 25% minority interest in the Education business and a 26.51% minority interest in Radio. Regarding DTS, the parent Company has access to its cash through dividends. The evolution of operations and financial condition of DTS will directly affect the dividends received by the parent company. To the extent the dividend is part of the cash flow of the parent Company, among other sources, in case those dividends were not enough, our consolidated cash flow might be adversely affected and make it more difficult to meet our obligations. Santillana is required to pay a predetermined fixed preferred dividend to its minority shareholders. In the case of the Spanish operations of Education and Radio, the parent Company has access to their cash through cash pooling contracts, which could adversely be affected by a change in the circumstances of minority shareholders. Fluctuations in the price of paper could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to the possibility of fluctuations in our results due to changes in the price of paper, an essential raw material for certain of our production processes. Paper is the main raw material of our printed media. In 2012 and in 2011, paper purchase expenses represented 2.7% and 3.1%, respectively, of our total consolidated operating expenses in those years (without considering charges for depreciation and amortization or impairment losses). We have established a program for strategically monitoring changes in paper prices, the aim of which, bearing in mind the cyclical nature of changes in paper prices, is to hedge the price of a percentage of the volume of paper that we expect to consume in the medium term. However, an increase in those prices or an interruption of supply could adversely affect our press and book publishing businesses and, therefore, adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial position. We have tax credits for export activities discussed by tax authorities A significant portion of the tax credits for export activities generated by the Group in the past, totaling €253 million, has been questioned in various tax audits, since the tax authorities considered that the requirements for use of this tax benefit had not been met. We do not agree with the position of the tax authorities and have appealed. To cover a possible unfavorable ruling on the issues in question, we have recognized a provision of €189.7 million in our consolidated financial statements (including €6.7 million recorded in 2012). The outcome of the current proceedings could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have significant tax assets (tax losses and tax credits) that we may not be able to use if the company or tax group at which the tax asset arose does not generate sufficient income. As of December 31, 2012, we have recognized tax assets amounting to €1,344 million in our consolidated financial statements. Of this amount, €906 million relates to tax assets recorded at a 30% rate arising from tax loss carryforwards as a result mainly of prior years’ losses of the Prisa Televisión companies, mainly, DTS, Distribuidora de Televisión, S.A. (€762 million), of the Prisa consolidated tax group (totaling €132 million) and other minor consolidated tax groups (€12 million). Under the tax law, the deadline for recovering these tax assets by offsetting them against future profits is 18 years from the tax year in which they were generated (or of the year in which the company concerned first earns a profit, which is the case with DTS, whose deadline starts at 2009). This law states that only in 2011, 2012 and 2013, compensation of tax losses is limited to a percentage of the amount of the tax income carryforward which has been generated previously to the compensation (to 50% in 2011 and to 25% in 2012 and 2013). Since these assets were earned mainly by companies outside the scope of the Prisa consolidated tax group, they will have to be recovered outside of this scope, i.e., they will have to be offset against the individual profits of each company at which they arose. Assets generated inside the scope of the Prisa consolidated tax group, could be recovered inside of this scope, i.e., they could be offset against the profits of the tax group. Of the remainder, €346 million (including unused tax credits for export activities amounting to €207 million out of the €253 million mentioned above), relates mainly to investment tax credits which are deducted from the income tax charge. The deadline for taking these credits against future profits, in accordance with the Corporation Tax Law, is fifteen or eighteen years (for R&D credits) from the date on which they were earned. In addition to this deadline, restrictions apply as to the amount that may be used each year, to the extent that, of the balances available for use, credits corresponding to only 35% (25% during 2012 and 2013 year) of the gross tax payable (resulting, in turn, from 30% of the taxable profit less double taxation tax credits) in that year may be used. Should our businesses fail to produce sufficient profits in the future against which these tax assets (tax loss carryforwards and tax credits) may be used within the time horizon indicated, such credits would be lost, which could significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized are reassessed at the end of each reporting period in order to ascertain whether they still exist, and the appropriate adjustments are made on the basis of the findings of the analyses performed and the tax rate then in force. Prisa consolidated tax group has tax assets for financial expenses that are not deductible for Spanish corporate income tax purposes that it may not be able to use if the tax group does not generate sufficient income. As a result of a tax reform published on March 31, 2011, the deductibility of financial expenses is limited to 30% of adjusted EBITDA, as calculated for tax purposes. The amount of nondeductible financial expenses can be offset, under the same conditions, and with the same limit, against future profits in the corporate tax of the following eighteen years. Therefore, the amount not deducted could generate a future tax asset. With the current structure of the Prisa tax group and the financial debt of the Group PRISA, this tax reform has generated a tax asset of €13.2 million that relates to a 30% rate of the nondeductible financial expenses in the tax year. The measure approved does not mean, in the current situation, any further cash out in the Prisa tax group in year 2012, nor it is expected to have any cash impact in the following tax years, and it is not expected to have an impact on the Profit and loss account either in the next years. As with other tax assets, should our businesses fail to produce sufficient profits in the future against which these tax assets may be used within the time horizon indicated such credits would be lost, which could significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to our Group and the Industries in which We Operate Economic conditions may adversely affect our businesses and customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Spain and other countries in which we operate have experienced slowdowns and volatility in their economies in recent years. Main consumption indicators in Spain and Portugal have significantly deteriorated and have led to and could lead to further lower spending on our products and services by customers, including advertisers, subscribers to the pay TV platform, licensees, retailers and other consumers of our content offerings and services. In addition, in unfavorable economic environments, our business customers may have difficulties obtaining capital to finance their ongoing businesses and operations and may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely payments and continue operations. We cannot predict the duration and severity of weakened economic conditions and such conditions and resultant effects could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. A further decline in advertising expenditures could cause our revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. A relevant portion of our operating income (revenues) depends on the revenues generated from the advertising market through our press, radio, audiovisual and digital businesses. The advertising market in Spain and Portugal continued showing significant declines during 2012, in a negative economic environment in which the decrease in consumption continued accelerating. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Consequently, a further decline of the macroeconomic situation in Spain and Portugal could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. In view of the significant weight of fixed costs associated with businesses with a high component of advertising revenue (mainly radio and press), a drop in advertising revenues directly impacts operating profit and therefore the Group´s ability to generate cash flow, forcing our business units to conduct frequent checks and adjustmentsto their cost base. Demand for our products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. For example, ratings points for our radio stations, television audience levels and circulation levels for our newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates. A drop in advertising revenue could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The use of alternative means of delivery for newspapers and magazines may adversely affect our businesses. Revenue in the newspaper and magazine publishing industry is dependent primarily upon advertising revenue, subscription fees and sale of copies. The use of alternative means of delivery, such as free Internet sites, for news and other content has increased significantly in recent years. Should significant numbers of customers choose to receive content using these alternative delivery sources rather than through our product offerings, we may face a long-term decline in circulation, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and we may not successfully react to competitors’ actions. The press, radio, education, audiovisual, digital, media distribution, advertising and publishing industries in which we operate are highly competitive. To compete effectively in these industries we must successfully market our products and react appropriately to our competitors’ actions, both by launching new products or services and by adjusting our pricing strategies. Such rigorous competition poses an ongoing challenge to our ability to increase audience share, increase sales, retain our present customers, attract new customers and improve our profit margins. Furthermore, the regulatory policies of many countries in which we conduct business tend, where possible, to enable increased competition in most of the industries in which we operate. These countries have in the past granted, and can be expected to continue to grant, new licenses enabling the entry of new competitors into the marketplace. Such entries have the potential to reduce our revenues or make our operations less profitable. We may not be capable of competing successfully with current or future industry participants, and the entry of new competitors into the industries in which we currently operate may reduce our revenue, market share or profitability. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. We may fail to adequately evolve our business strategy as the industry segments in which we compete further mature. Our principal lines of business, specifically press, radio, education, audiovisual, media distribution, advertising and publishing, are conducted in mature industry segments typified by moderate growth rates (or, in some cases, declining demand), standardized product offerings, a significant number of competitors and difficulties in developing and offering new products and services to consumers. Advertising revenues represent a relevant portion of our revenue (21% of our 2012 operating income). According to December 2012 Zenith Optimedia estimates, advertising expenditure in Spain is expected to decline by 5.2% in 2013 and is expected to also decline by 0.4% in 2014 and to grow by 2.5% in 2015, which represents a -1.1% compound annual rate for 2012-2015. This same source estimates that advertising expenditure in television in Portugal will grow by 0.4%, 5.6% and 4.7% in 2013, 2014 and 2015 respectively and advertising expenditure in radio in Latin America will grow by 4.0%, 7.8% and 8.4% in 2013, 2014 and 2015 respectively. According to the PricewaterhouseCoopers Global Entertainment and Media Outlook 2012-2016 Report, the digital component of newspaper advertising revenue in Spain is estimated to grow at a 7.9% compound annual rate, while newspaper print advertising is expected to decline by 1.4%. Additionally print circulation spending in Spain is expected to decline at a 2.6% compound annual rate, while digital circulation spending is expected to increase by 82.7%. Regarding Radio, the report states that the introduction of digital radio in a number of countries has the potential to increase radio advertising as it provides a number of advantages over traditional radio, including better sound quality, the ability to broadcast more channels using the same amount of spectrum, and the ability to transmit data streams incorporating information about the songs along with the audio streams. Sales of books and training represented 27% of our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012. Regarding the total spending in the print educational book market, the report states that Spain is expected to decline in the period 2012-2016 by 4.3%. In Latin America, the report expects a 3.9% compound annual rate growth over the same period. Electronic educational books include interactive learning tools that give print book an enhanced value. Total spending in the electronic educational book market in Spain is expected to grow in the period 2012-2016 by 23.4% and a 148.3% in Latam, with Brazil totaling a 74% of total spending on educational electronic books in this region in 2016. Revenue from subscribers represented 34% of our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012. In relation to the pay television subscription market, the report states that the subscription market in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region competes with free multichannel services and free satellite services in several countries, so even though in terms of penetration there is still room to grow, the market is effectively close to saturation in terms of available households not currently served by multichannel television. There is also an emerging “over-the-top” market that competes with TV subscription services, as streaming services that allows viewers to watch TV programs over the Internet. Consequently, subscription services are investing in their infrastructure to provide more channels, including HD, enhancing their VOD offerings and attractive sport packages and launching applications to allow subscribers watch programs online or on mobile devices. The report states that subscription TV market is expected to grow in this region at a 5.6% compound annual rate (+0.4% in Spain). We must adopt new strategies to adequately address the challenges posed by this competitive climate. These new strategies may include capturing the benefits of economies of scale, cost reduction, better use of production capacity, increased employee productivity and achieving product and service differentiation through innovative marketing, product design, customer service and organization, among others, to provide us with a competitive edge over other industry participants and enhance the effectiveness of our response to customer demands. 14 Table of Contents Our failure to adapt strategically to the continuing maturity of the industries in which we operate or to adopt appropriate business strategies in the future could result in the loss of our current market share and, consequently, could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to liability stemming from the content of our publications and programming. Although we attempt to verify the lawfulness of the content of our publications, programs and broadcasts, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not bring claims against us in connection with our public dissemination of publications and the broadcasting of programs. We could be required to publish corrections to any such broadcasts or publications. We could be ordered to pay damages, retract statements or restrict the content of our publications or programs if we are found to have infringed third party rights, any of which could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in highly regulated industries and are therefore exposed to legislative, administrative and regulatory risks that could adversely impact our businesses. Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulations including the requirement to maintain concessions and licenses for our operations in our Audiovisual and Radio segments. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or in their interpretation, may occur and may substantially impact our business operations, including by requiring changes to our business methods, increasing our costs of doing business or by forcing us to cease conducting business in those segments. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. Television & Radio Our radio and television operations in both Europe and Latin America are subject to government regulation and are conducted under revocable administrative concessions or licenses. Applicable radio and television regulations cover, among other matters, minimum coverage, necessary technical specifications, program content and permissible advertising. The regulations also cover the ownership and transfer of equity interests in companies engaged in the regulated activities. We provide a considerable portion of our services under licenses or concessions granted by the governments and administrative bodies of the countries in which we operate. These licenses and concessions require us to comply with the imposed terms and conditions, including with specified investment commitments and established geographic coverage requirements, and to meet established service quality standards. The performance of such obligations is frequently secured by guarantees. In the event of any failure to comply with applicable law or the terms and conditions of a license or a concession, supervising authorities may review or revoke the license or concession or impose penalties on us. The continuity and the terms of the licenses and concessions may be subject to review by the relevant regulatory bodies and the regulators may also construe, amend or terminate a license or a concession. In the event of termination of a concession or license, we may not have access to any meaningful means of redress and termination could significantly adversely affect our business, results of its operations and financial condition. Our business and our ability to meet the targets established by our strategic plan would be adversely affected in the event that any new legislation or regulations impose more restrictive provisions or more burdensome compliance requirements than those presently in effect or otherwise significantly quantitatively or qualitatively impact any of our licenses or concessions, or if such licenses or concessions were not to be renewed or are revoked, thereby negatively impacting our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Publishing Our book publishing operations are subject to both general legislation applicable to book publishing as well as legislation regulating the publication of educational materials specifically applicable to textbooks. In addition, in Spain, Autonomous Community legislation (legislation by principal governmental bodies responsible for primary and secondary education, universities and higher education and other state-funded education) imposes various obligations on publishers of educational material and textbooks, and the legislation enacted in support of these functions is extensive. Should we breach any of our statutory obligations with respect to the publication of educational materials and textbooks, penalties could be imposed on us and our textbooks and other educational material could be declared unsuitable. Should the adoption of book lending in schools by the Spanish Autonomous Communities increase, the sale of textbooks and other educational material would be reduced. Any of these developments could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations in some Latin American countries subject us to certain risks. For the year ended December 31, 2012 approximately 26.7% of our operating revenues and 45.0% of our Adjusted EBITDA was derived from operations in Latin America. 15 Table of Contents Various risks typical to investments in some Latin American countries with emerging economies could adversely affect our operations and investments in Latin America, the most significant of which include: ● the possible devaluation of foreign currencies or introduction of exchange restrictions, or other restrictions imposed on the free flow of capital across borders; ● the potential effects of inflation and/or the possible devaluation of local currencies, which could lead to equity deficits at our subsidiaries operating in these countries and require us either to recapitalize the affected subsidiaries or wind up the operations of any such affected subsidiary; ● the potential for foreign government expropriation or nationalization of our foreign assets; ● the potential for substantial changes in applicable foreign tax levels or the introduction of new foreign taxes or levies; ● the possibility of changes in policies and/or regulations affecting the economic climate or business conditions of the foreign markets in which we operate; and ● the possibility of economic crises, economic instability or public unrest, which could have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries. Any of the above circumstances could adversely impact both our ability to grow our operations in the affected countries and our results of operations and financial position. If we do not successfully respond to the rapid technological changes that characterize our businesses, our competitive position may be adversely impacted. In order to maintain and grow our business, we must adapt to technological advances, for which research and development are key factors. Technological changes could give rise to new competitors in our various businesses and provide new opportunities for existing competitors to increase market share at our expense. Consequently, should we fail to keep sufficiently abreast of the current and future technological developments in the industry, this could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our capacity to achieve our business, strategic and financial objectives. Losses in excess of insurance, or losses resulting in increases to insurance premiums or failure to renew, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although all of our companies maintain insurance policies with scope and coverage which we believe to be consistent with industry practices, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be significantly adversely affected by any exposure to a significant uninsured risk, any incurrence of losses significantly exceeding our insurance coverage, or any considerable increase in our insurance premiums due to claims in any given year significantly exceeding the historical level of claims. Furthermore, as our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal, we may not be able to renew our existing policies on similar or favorable terms and conditions, if at all. We are subject to material litigation that, if unfavorably determined, could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. As of the date of this annual report, we are a party to various lawsuits. Since these proceedings are in progress, we cannot reliably anticipate the outcome thereof, nor can we fully assess the consequences of potential judgments. A judgment adverse to our interests could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we are required to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management’s attention from executing our business plan. We depend significantly on our pay television business and negative developments in this market could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2012, revenue from the Spanish pay television market through Canal+ (formerly known as Digital+) accounted for 40.5% of our operating income. Our share of the total pay television market in Spain in terms of revenues is 60.8%, according to the Spanish Telecommunication Market Commission (CMT) 3Q report 2012. The growth and profitability of the Canal+ business are dependent on developments in the pay television industry as a whole, on changes in the film production and distribution industry as well as on significant changes with regards to increases in VAT. Industry developments impact: 16 Table of Contents ● our ability to stimulate pay television consumption, win new subscribers and increase the rate of penetration of pay television among homes with televisions; and ● our ability to ensure the future continuity of the supply of television programming produced by third parties. In 2012 Canal+ signed a new agreement for the exploitation of football rights in the coming three seasons for the Spanish Liga and the Copa. Additionally, in 2011 Canal+ acquired the broadcast rights to the UEFA Champions League for three seasons starting August, 2012. Should the market for pay television suffer a downturn or a significant reduction in subscribers or ARPU, this would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on a number of third-party infrastructures and technological systems for the provision of services to subscribers and any breakdown thereof could interrupt those services. Currently, Prisa Televisión has contracts for the supply of satellite transmission services with the operators Hispasat, S.A. and Société Européenne des Satellites, S.A., or SES ASTRA. The provision by Prisa Televisión of satellite television services through Canal+ depends on these supply contracts remaining in force. The revocation, termination or failure to renew these contracts could prevent Prisa Televisión from providing its subscribers with satellite television services and could lead to an interruption in these services and adversely impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The ongoing European sovereign debt crisis and the recession in the Eurozone could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since late 2009, the sovereign debt markets of the Eurozone have undergone substantial stress, especially with respect to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. The sovereign debt crisis has contributed to a weakening of the business environment and financial markets in the Eurozone. Austerity programs introduced by a number of countries across the Eurozone in response to the sovereign debt crisis, including Spain, may also be contributing to a decline in economic growth. If European policymakers are unable to resolve the sovereign debt crisis, our results of operations and financial position would likely be materially and adversely affected. As described above, weak economic conditions may adversely affect our business and our customers. In addition, efforts by our lenders to preserve capital in the face of sovereign debt write-downs and increased regulatory capital requirements has reduced overall lending and could material adversely affect our ability to refinance our outstanding indebtedness. Furthermore, one or more members of the Eurozone could leave the common currency, which could have unpredictable financial, legal, political and social consequences, and could result in a widespread loss of investor confidence. Our systems to operate and protect our digital activities may be insufficient to protect against service interruptions or fraudulent activities. Our digital activities generated €60 million in revenues in 2012, a 18.7% increase over 2011. Our digital activity depends on Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), online service providers and our system infrastructure to allow users to access the sites we operate, as well as on technologies and network systems to handle transactions and user information securely over the Internet. Significant system failures, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in access to our sites could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our security and network systems could also be tested and subject to attack by third parties seeking to commit fraud. Any such attack could cause delay, interruption or financial loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The failure of our controlling shareholder group to continue to hold, directly or indirectly, at least 30% of our share capital may trigger change of control provisions contained in a material shareholder agreement among shareholders of DTS. If holders of a sufficient number of Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares convert their shares into Prisa Class A ordinary shares and our existing controlling shareholder group does not exercise a sufficient number of its warrants to maintain ownership of, directly or indirectly, at least 30% of Prisa’s Class A ordinary shares, then the change of control provision contained in a material agreement may be triggered pursuant to the definition of “change of control” as defined in such agreement. Additionally, given the possibility of paying the minimum Class B dividend in Class A shares, and the possibility of anticipated conversions of mandatory convertible bonds, the exercise of warrants may not ensure the maintenance of control by the existing controlling shareholder group. The terms of the shareholder agreement among the shareholders of DTS (Prisa Televisión, Telefónica and Mediaset España) provide that, within 15 days of learning of a change of control of Prisa, each of Telefónica and/or Mediaset España may require Prisa Televisión to sell all of its shares in DTS to Telefónica and/or Mediaset España, pro rata, at a purchase price to be determined by internationally recognized investment banks chosen by each party. In the event of a change of control, through Prisa Televisión, we could lose our stake in our pay television business. 17 Table of Contents A change of control of Prisa is defined in the shareholder agreement as (i) the Prisa controlling shareholder group ceasing to own at least 30% of Prisa’s share capital or (ii) the existence of an individual Prisa shareholder or a group of Prisa shareholders (acting jointly through one or more voting agreements) holding an ownership interest in Prisa greater than the ownership interest held by the Prisa controlling shareholder group. Additionally the shareholder agreement provides minority shareholders first refusal and veto rights, among other customary rights. The loss of our stake in our pay television business would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Supermajority and other voting provisions in our bylaws, along with the existence of a controlling shareholder group, may have the effect of discouraging potentially interested parties from seeking to acquire us or otherwise influence the outcome of significant matters affecting our shareholders. Our bylaws require a 75% supermajority shareholder vote to approve bylaw amendments, increases or reductions in our share capital, mergers and similar extraordinary transactions and, in some cases, the election of directors not nominated by our board of directors. Our controlling shareholder group currently controls over 30% of our total voting power. As a result, these bylaw provisions may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of Prisa not supported by the controlling shareholder group or otherwise precluding corporate actions that the controlling shareholder group opposes, even if supported by a majority of our voting shares. Risks Relating to Taxation You may have to pay taxes on constructive distributions without receiving a corresponding distribution of cash or property. If the conversion ratio of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares into Prisa Class A common shares is increased, as provided in the terms of the Prisa Class B convertible non-voting shares, holders of Prisa ADS-Bs may be treated as having received a constructive distribution if such increase in the conversion ratio has the effect of increasing the proportionate interest of such holders in Prisa’s earnings and profits or assets. In such a case, holders may be required to include an amount in income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, notwithstanding that they do not receive such distributions. 