Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks we face, together with the other information in this document, when you make investment decisions involving our securities. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prices of our securities. We have been and expect to continue to be affected by the current global financial crisis and economic downturn. As a global investment bank with a large private client franchise, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally. Since the second half of 2007, and particularly since September 2008, the financial services industry, including ourselves, and the global financial markets have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all classes of financial assets. The financial markets experienced unprecedented levels of volatility (rapid changes in price direction) and the breakdown of historically observed correlations (the extent to which prices move in tandem) across asset classes, compounded by extremely limited liquidity. This has materially and adversely affected the availability and performance of instruments used to hedge positions and manage risk. Furthermore, there has been a widespread loss of investor confidence, both in our industry and the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger under distressed conditions of a number of prominent financial institutions. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit spreads, to cause ratings agencies to lower credit ratings and otherwise to increase the cost and decrease the availability of credit, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. As of the start of 2009, Europe, the United States and other important economies were contracting, with business activities across a wide range of industries and regions greatly reduced and unemployment increasing significantly. While financial market and economic conditions improved over the course of 2009, asset values, credit spreads and liquidity have not returned to pre-crisis levels, and conditions in the wider economy remain challenging. Although the economies of many developed countries returned to positive growth in the second half of 2009, the pace of recovery has remained relatively subdued. Economic headwinds persisted with unemployment increasing, weighing on household credit quality, and corporate defaults have been rising. The improvements in confidence and liquidity in financial markets and in economic conditions generally that have been seen since 2009 have been reliant in large part upon public sector stimulus measures, which will not be available indefinitely. Towards the end of 2009, large fiscal deficits and sharply rising public debt, mainly a reflection of the deep economic recession and the cost of financial sector support measures, led to growing concerns in financial markets over sovereign risk. These or other factors could render the improvements that have occurred fragile. 7 Table of Contents 20-F Item 3: Key Information These adverse financial market and economic conditions have negatively impacted many of our businesses, particularly in 2008, with some effects persisting into 2009. If such conditions do not continue to improve, or if they worsen, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In particular, these conditions required us to write down the carrying values of some of our portfolios of assets, including leveraged loans and loan commitments. Furthermore, we incurred sizeable losses in our equity derivatives trading and equity and credit proprietary trading businesses in 2008. Despite initiatives to reduce our exposure to the affected asset classes or activities, such reduction has not always been possible due to illiquid trading markets for many assets. As a result, we have substantial remaining exposures and thus continue to be exposed to further deterioration in prices for the remaining positions. These write-downs and losses led us to incur a loss in 2008, as performance in our other businesses was not sufficient to offset them. In addition, while we were profitable in 2009, write-downs and losses in 2009, including large losses on our Leveraged Finance portfolio and on our exposures to monolines, materially and negatively affected our results. Our inability to offset the potential negative effects on our profitability through performance in our other businesses may continue in the future. See “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations by Segment (2009 vs. 2008) — Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division” for information on the impact of the current financial market environment on a number of our key businesses. Market declines and volatility can materially adversely affect our revenues and profits. As a global investment bank, we have significant exposure to the financial markets and are more at risk from the adverse developments in the financial markets than institutions engaged predominantly in traditional banking activities. Market declines have caused and can continue to cause our revenues to decline, and, if we are unable to reduce our expenses at the same pace, can cause our profitability to erode or cause us to show material losses, as we did in 2008. Volatility can also adversely affect us, by causing the value of financial assets we hold to decline or the expense of hedging our risks to rise. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant losses from our trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations. We enter into and maintain large trading and investment positions in the fixed income, equity and currency markets, primarily through our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division. We also from time to time make significant investments in individual companies, primarily through our Corporate Investments and Corporate Investment Bank Group Divisions. We also maintain smaller trading and investment positions in other assets. Many of these trading positions include derivative financial instruments. In each of the product and business lines in which we enter into these kinds of positions, part of our business entails making assessments about the financial markets and trends in them. The revenues and profits we derive from many of our positions and our transactions in connection with them can be negatively impacted by market prices, which were both declining and volatile during the financial crisis. When we own assets, market price declines can expose us to losses. Many of the more sophisticated transactions we describe in our discussions of our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division are designed to profit from price movements and differences among prices. If prices move in a way we have not anticipated, we may experience 8 Table of Contents losses. Also, when markets are volatile, the assessments we have made may prove to lead to lower revenues or profits, or may lead to losses, on the related transactions and positions. In addition, we commit capital and take market risk to facilitate certain capital markets transactions; doing so can result in losses as well as income volatility. Protracted market declines have reduced and may continue to reduce liquidity in the markets, making it harder to sell assets and possibly leading to material losses. In some of our businesses, protracted market movements, particularly asset price declines, can reduce the level of activity in the market or reduce market liquidity. As we experienced during the current financial crisis, these developments can lead to material losses if we cannot close out deteriorating positions in a timely way. This may especially be the case for assets we hold for which there are not very liquid markets to begin with. Assets that are not traded on stock exchanges or other public trading markets, such as derivatives contracts between banks, may have values that we calculate using models other than publicly-quoted prices. Monitoring the deterioration of prices of assets like these is difficult and could lead to losses we did not anticipate. We have incurred losses, and may incur further losses, as a result of changes in the fair value of our financial instruments. A substantial proportion of the assets and liabilities on our balance sheet comprise financial instruments that we carry at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the income statement. Fair value is defined as the price at which an asset or liability could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. If the value of an asset carried at fair value declines (or the value of a liability carried at fair value increases) a corresponding write-down is recognized in the income statement. These write-downs have been and could continue to be significant. Observable prices or inputs are not available for certain classes of financial instruments. Fair value is determined in these cases using valuation techniques we believe to be appropriate for the particular instrument. The application of valuation techniques to determine fair value involves estimation and management judgment, the extent of which will vary with the degree of complexity of the instrument and liquidity in the market. Management judgment is required in the selection and application of the appropriate parameters, assumptions and modeling techniques. If any of the assumptions change due to negative market conditions or for other reasons, subsequent valuations may result in significant changes in the fair values of our financial instruments, requiring us to record losses. Our exposure and related write-downs are reported net of any fair value gains we may record in connection with hedging transactions related to the underlying assets. However, we may never realize these gains, and the fair value of the hedges may change in future periods for a number of reasons, including as a result of deterioration in the credit of our hedging counterparties. Such declines may be independent of the fair values of the underlying hedged assets and may result in future losses. 9 Table of Contents 20-F Item 3: Key Information Adverse economic conditions have caused and may continue to cause us to incur higher credit losses. The adverse economic conditions experienced during the current financial crisis have caused and may continue to cause us to incur higher credit losses, with our provision for credit losses increasing from € 0.6 billion in 2007, to € 1.1 billion in 2008, to € 2.6 billion in 2009. Increased provisions occurred in both our Corporate and Investment Bank and Private Clients and Asset Management Group Divisions. In the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, as permitted by recent amendments to IFRS, we reclassified certain financial assets out of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss or available for sale into loans. While such reclassified assets, which had a carrying value of € 33.6 billion as of December 31, 2009, are no longer subject to mark-to-market accounting, we continue to be exposed to the risk of impairment of such assets. In addition, we bear additional funding and capital costs with respect to them. Of our € 2.6 billion provision for credit losses in 2009, € 1.3 billion was attributable to these reclassified assets and related primarily to exposures in Leveraged Finance. Even where losses are for our clients’ accounts, they may fail to repay us, leading to material losses for us, and our reputation can be harmed. While our clients would be responsible for losses we incur in taking positions for their accounts, we may be exposed to additional credit risk as a result of their need to cover the losses where we do not hold adequate collateral or cannot realize it. Our business may also suffer if our clients lose money and we lose the confidence of clients in our products and services. Our investment banking revenues may continue to decline as a result of adverse market or economic conditions. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, directly relate to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and are susceptible to adverse effects from sustained market downturns, such as the one currently experienced. These fees and other income are generally linked to the value of the underlying transactions and therefore can decline with asset values, as they have during the current financial crisis. Our revenues and profitability could sustain further material adverse effects from a significant reduction in the number or size of debt and equity offerings and merger and acquisition transactions. We may generate lower revenues from brokerage and other commission- and fee-based businesses. Market downturns have led and may continue to lead to declines in the volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and, therefore, to declines in our noninterest income. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients’ portfolios are in many cases based on the value or performance of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals reduces the revenues we receive from our asset management and private banking businesses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market or negative performance by our investment funds may result in increased withdrawals and reduced inflows, which would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management business. 10 Table of Contents Our risk management policies, procedures and methods leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks, which could lead to material losses. We have devoted significant resources to developing our risk management policies, procedures and assessment methods and intend to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our risk management techniques and strategies have not been and may in the future not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our quantitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to arrive at quantifications of our risk exposures. In the volatile market environment of the financial crisis, these tools and metrics failed to predict some of the losses we experienced, particularly in 2008, and may continue to fail to predict future important risk exposures. In addition, our quantitative modeling does not take all risks into account and makes numerous assumptions regarding the overall environment, which may not be borne out by events. As a result, risk exposures have arisen and could continue to arise from factors we did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in our statistical models. This has limited and could continue to limit our ability to manage our risks. Our losses thus have been and may continue to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our more qualitative approach to managing those risks not taken into account by our quantitative methods could also prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. Also, if existing or potential customers or counterparties believe our risk management is inadequate, they could take their business elsewhere or seek to limit their transactions with us. This could harm our reputation as well as our revenues and profits. See “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk” for a more detailed discussion of the policies, procedures and methods we use to identify, monitor and manage our risks. In its recent lowering of our long-term rating, Moody’s Investors Service noted the extent of our capital allocated to capital markets activities and the resulting challenges for our market risk management function to manage “tail risks” successfully. Our nontraditional credit businesses materially add to our traditional banking credit risks. As a bank and provider of financial services, we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. Many of the businesses we engage in beyond the traditional banking businesses of deposit-taking and lending also expose us to credit risk. In particular, many of the businesses we have engaged in through our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division entail credit transactions, frequently ancillary to other transactions. Nontraditional sources of credit risk can arise, for example, from holding securities of third parties; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades that fail to settle at the required time due to nondelivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries; and extending credit through other arrangements. Parties to these transactions, such as trading counterparties, may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, political and economic events, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. 11 Table of Contents 20-F Item 3: Key Information Many of our derivative transactions are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position difficult. Certain credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold, and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation. This could cause us to forfeit the payments otherwise due to us or result in settlement delays, which could damage our reputation and ability to transact future business, as well as increased costs to us. The exceptionally difficult market conditions since the second half of 2007 have severely adversely affected certain areas in which we do business that entail nontraditional credit risks, including the leveraged finance and structured credit markets, and may do so in the future. We have a continuous demand for liquidity to fund our business activities. We may suffer during periods of market-wide or firm-specific liquidity constraints and are exposed to the risk that liquidity is not made available to us even if our underlying business remains strong. We are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk arising from our potential inability to meet all payment obligations when they become due or only being able to meet them at excessive costs. Our liquidity may become impaired due to a reluctance of our counterparties or the market to finance our operations due to actual or perceived weaknesses in our businesses. Such impairments can also arise from circumstances unrelated to our businesses and outside our control, such as, but not limited to, disruptions in the financial markets, like those experienced during 2008 and early 2009, negative developments concerning other financial institutions perceived to be comparable to us, or negative views about the financial services industry in general, or disruptions in the markets for any specific class of assets. Negative perceptions concerning our business and prospects could develop as a result of large losses, changes of our credit ratings, a general decline in the level of business activity in the financial services sector, regulatory action, serious employee misconduct or illegal activity, as well as many other reasons. As described in “Item 3: Key Information — Long-Term Credit Ratings”, since the start of the financial crisis the major credit rating agencies have lowered our credit ratings or placed them on review or watch. Ratings downgrades may impact the cost and availability of our funding, collateral requirements and the willingness of counterparties to do business with us. We require capital to support our business activities and meet regulatory requirements. Losses could diminish our capital, and market conditions may prevent us from raising additional capital or increase our cost of capital. In the wake of the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009, the price of our shares declined and the spreads on our credit default swaps widened. If the levels of market disruption and volatility experienced in 2008 and early 2009 recur, our ability to access the capital markets and obtain the necessary funding to support our business activities on acceptable terms may be adversely affected. Among other things, an inability to refinance assets on our balance sheet or maintain appropriate levels of capital to protect against deteriorations in their value could force us to liquidate assets we hold at depressed prices or on unfavorable terms, as well as forcing us to curtail business, such as extending new credit. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Also, regulatory reforms applicable to the financial services industry have been proposed that could subject us to more stringent regulatory capital requirements. Meeting any such requirements may require us to issue securities that qualify as regulatory capital or to liquidate assets or curtail business, which may have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly if any such proposal becomes effective at a time when financial markets are distressed, but also under normal market conditions. We operate in an increasingly regulated and litigious environment, potentially exposing us to liability and other costs, the amounts of which may be difficult to estimate. The financial services industry is among the most highly regulated industries. Our operations throughout the world are regulated and supervised by the central banks and regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. In recent years, regulation and supervision in a number of areas has increased, and regulators, counterparties and others have sought to subject financial services providers to increasing responsibilities and liabilities. This trend has accelerated markedly as a result of the financial crisis. As a result, we may be subject to an increasing incidence or amount of liability or regulatory sanctions and may be required to make greater expenditures and devote additional resources to address potential liability. Due to the nature of our business, we and our subsidiaries are involved in litigation, arbitration and regulatory proceedings in jurisdictions around the world. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. We may settle litigation or regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgment or determination of liability. We may do so to avoid the cost, management efforts or negative business, regulatory or reputational consequences of continuing to contest liability, even when we believe we have valid defenses to liability. We may also do so when the potential consequences of failing to prevail would be disproportionate to the costs of settlement. Furthermore, we may, for similar reasons, reimburse counterparties for their losses even in situations where we do not believe that we are legally compelled to do so. The financial impact of legal risks might be considerable but may be hard or impossible to estimate and so to quantify, so that amounts eventually paid may exceed the amount of reserves set aside to cover such risks. See “Item 8: Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” and Note [27] to our consolidated financial statements for information on our legal, regulatory and arbitration proceedings. Governmental and central bank action in response to the financial crisis significantly affects competition and may affect the legal or economic position of shareholders or other investors. In response to the financial markets crisis, there has been significant intervention by governments and central banks into the financial services sector, including the taking of direct shareholdings in individual financial institutions, particularly in the U.S., the U.K. and Switzerland, and contributions of other forms of capital to, guarantees of debt of and purchases of distressed assets from financial institutions. In some instances, individual financial institutions have been nationalized. The eligibility to benefit from such measures is in some instances tied to certain commitments of the participating bank, such as lending to certain types of borrowers, adjustments to the bank’s business strategy, suspension of dividends and other profit distributions and limitations on the compensation of executives. 13 Table of Contents 20-F Item 3: Key Information Such interventions involve significant amounts of money and have significant effects on both institutions that participate in them and institutions that do not participate including with respect to access to funding and capital and recruiting and retention of talent. Institutions that do not receive such government support may be in a position to preserve greater autonomy in their strategy, lending and compensation policy but may suffer competitive disadvantages on their cost base, in particular their costs of funding and capital. They also may suffer a decline in depositor or investor confidence thus risking a loss of liquidity. Institutions that receive such government support may, as described above, have to make certain commitments and become subject to certain constraints. Legislation enacted in Germany in response to the financial markets crisis provides among other things for the temporary suspension of otherwise applicable stock corporation and takeover law, in particular with respect to shareholder rights and for enhanced powers of the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) to suspend dividends and other distributions on financial instruments that qualify as own funds (Eigenmittel). The implementation of any such measures with respect to our company could adversely affect the legal or economic position of our shareholders or other investors. The implementation of any such measures with respect to other companies could adversely affect the perception of the overall prospects for the financial services sector or for a particular type or types of financial instruments. In such case the price for our shares and other financial instruments could drop and our costs of funding and capital could rise. Regulatory reforms proposed in response to the financial crisis may significantly affect our business model and the competitive environment. In response to the financial markets crisis, governments, regulatory authorities and others have made and continue to make numerous proposals to reform the regulatory framework for the financial services industry to enhance its resilience against future crises. The wide range of current proposals includes, among others, proposals for: more stringent regulatory capital and liquidity standards; restrictions on compensation practices; charging special levies to fund governmental intervention in response to crises; expansion of the resolution powers of regulators; separation of certain businesses from deposit taking; breaking up financial institutions that are perceived to be too large for regulators to take the risk of their failure; and reforming market infrastructures. See “