Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related To Our Business We have generated only minimal revenue from product sales to date; we have a history of net losses and negative cash flow, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have generated only minimal revenue from product sales to date and may never generate significant revenues from future product sales. Even if we do achieve significant revenues from product sales, licensing revenues and milestone payments, we expect to incur significant operating losses over the next several years. We have never been profitable, and we may never become profitable. Through December 31, 2006, we have incurred aggregate net losses of $41,099,240. We may need to raise funds in the next twelve months, and there can be no assurance that such funds will be available. During the next twelve months we may need to raise additional capital to complete the steps required to continue development of our product candidates and to fund general operations. If we engage in acquisitions of companies, products, or technology in order to execute our business strategy, we may need to raise additional capital. We may be required to raise additional capital in the future through the public offering of securities, collaborative agreements, private financings and various other equity or debt financings, including calling outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock. Currently, warrants to purchase approximately 6.4 million shares of our common stock are outstanding and this amount of outstanding warrants may make us a less desirable candidate for investment for some potential investors. Approximately 2.3 million of our outstanding warrants contain a call feature that, potentially, may allow us to raise funds from the holders of these warrants. If our common stock closes at a price equal to or greater than $2.00 per share for twenty consecutive trading days, we have the ability, at our sole discretion, to call warrants exercisable for up to approximately 1.9 million shares of common stock, provided that we have not exercised a call right in the preceding three months. Upon such a call, the holders of these warrants have thirty days to decide whether to either exercise their warrants at a price of $1.75 per share or receive $0.01 from us for each share of common stock that is not exercised. If we need to raise funds in the future and we wish to utilize this call right, we will not be able to exercise the call right if we do not meet the minimum closing price condition and, even if we meet this condition, we 9 Table of Contents cannot be sure of the amounts that will be raised by such a call because some or all warrant holders may decide not to exercise their warrants. Considering our stage of development and the nature of our capital structure, when we are required to raise additional capital in the future, the additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we are successful in raising additional capital, a substantial number of additional shares will be issued and these shares will dilute the ownership interest of our investors. If we do not receive and maintain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize our products, which would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues. With the exception of the December 2004 receipt of a CE (European Conformity) Mark and April 2005 FDA clearance for Cumulase, and the December 2005 FDA approval for Hylenex, none of our product candidates have received regulatory approval from the FDA or from any similar national regulatory agency or authority in any other country in which we intend to do business. Approval from the FDA is necessary to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products in the United States. Most other countries in which we may do business have similar requirements. In December 2005, we received FDA approval for Hylenex. Other manufacturers have FDA approved products for use as spreading agents, including ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“ISTA”), with an ovine-derived hyaluronidase, Vitrase®, Amphastar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Amphastar”), with a bovine-derived hyaluronidase, Amphadasetm, and Primapharm, Inc. also with a bovine-derived hyaluronidase, Hydasetm. The FDA has determined that Amphadase, Hydase, Hylenex and Vitrase are each distinct new chemical entities and hence afforded five years of market exclusivity. The five year market exclusivity precludes identical new chemical entity products from being marketed for a period of five years. For so long as each of these products are established as distinctly different new chemical entities the marketing exclusivity granted does not prohibit the marketing of any of these products, including Hylenex. If the FDA changes its earlier determination that Hylenex is a distinct new chemical entity, our ability to market Hylenex will be materially impaired. The processes for obtaining FDA approval are extensive, time-consuming and costly, and there is no guarantee that the FDA will approve any NDAs that we intend to file with respect to any of our product candidates, or that the timing of any such approval will be appropriate for our product launch schedule and other business priorities, which are subject to change. We have not currently begun the NDA approval process for any of our other potential products, and we may not be successful in obtaining such approvals for any of our potential products. We may not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates for a variety of reasons, including unsuccessful clinical trials. Clinical testing of pharmaceutical products is also a long, expensive and uncertain process and a failure of a clinical trial can occur at any stage. Even if initial results of pre-clinical studies or clinical trial results are promising, we may obtain different results that fail to show the desired levels of safety and efficacy, or we may not obtain FDA approval for a variety of other reasons. The clinical trials of any of our product candidates could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing the product. FDA approval can be delayed, limited or not granted for many reasons, including, among others: • FDA officials may not find a product candidate safe or effective enough to merit either continued testing or final approval; • FDA officials may not find that the data from pre-clinical testing and clinical trials justify approval, or they may require additional studies that would make it commercially unattractive to continue pursuit of approval; • the FDA may reject our trial data or disagree with our interpretations of either clinical trial data or applicable regulations; • the cost of a clinical trial may be greater than what we originally anticipate, and we may decide to not pursue FDA approval for such a trial; 10 Table of Contents • the FDA may not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities, or the processes or facilities of our contract manufacturers or raw material suppliers; • the FDA may change its formal or informal approval policies, act contrary to previous guidance, or adopt new regulations; or • the FDA may approve a product candidate for indications that are narrow or under conditions that place the product at a competitive disadvantage, which may limit our sales and marketing activities or otherwise adversely impact the commercial potential of a product. If the FDA does not approve our product candidates in a timely fashion on commercially viable terms or we terminate development of any of our product candidates due to difficulties or delays encountered in the regulatory approval process, it will have a material adverse impact on our business and we will be dependent on the development of our other product candidates and/or our ability to successfully acquire other products and technologies. We may not receive regulatory approval of Chemophase, or any other product candidates, in a timely manner, or at all. We intend to market certain of our products, and perhaps have certain of our products manufactured, in foreign countries. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals in foreign countries is subject to delay and failure for many of the same reasons set forth above as well as for reasons that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The approval procedure varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us, which could significantly harm our business. Any approved products, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for these products, are subject to continual requirements and review by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Regulatory authorities subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. We will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements, including required submissions of safety and other post-market information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP regulations, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping requirements. The cGMP regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. We rely on the compliance by our contract manufacturers with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture of our products. We are also subject to state laws and registration requirements covering the distribution of our products. Regulatory agencies may change existing requirements or adopt new requirements or policies. We may be slow to adapt or may not be able to adapt to these changes or new requirements. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturing processes or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in any of the following: • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recall; • fines; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; 11 Table of Contents • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • product seizure; and • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If our product candidates are approved by the FDA but do not gain market acceptance, our business will suffer because we may not be able to fund future operations. Assuming that we obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, a number of factors may affect the market acceptance of any of our existing product candidates or any other products we develop or acquire in the future, including, among others: • the price of our products relative to other therapies for the same or similar treatments; • the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health care community of the effectiveness and safety of our products for their prescribed treatments; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; • the degree to which the use of our products is restricted by the product label approved by the FDA; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; and • the introduction of generic competitors. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development or acquisition of new product candidates and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. In addition, our ability to market and promote our product candidates will be restricted to the labels approved by the FDA. If the approved labels are restrictive, our sales and marketing efforts may be negatively affected. If we are unable to sufficiently develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will not be able to commercialize products. We may not be successful in marketing and promoting our existing product candidates or any other products we develop or acquire in the future. We are currently in the process of developing our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. However, our current capabilities in these areas are very limited. In order to commercialize any products successfully, we must internally develop substantial sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or establish collaborations or other arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We do not have extensive experience in these areas, and we may not be able to establish adequate in-house sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or engage and effectively manage relationships with third parties to perform any or all of such services. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, whose efforts may not meet our expectations or be successful. We have entered into non-exclusive distribution agreements with MediCult AS, a Denmark-based distributor and MidAtlantic Diagnostics, Inc., a New Jersey-based distributor, to market and sell our Cumulase product. We have entered into an exclusive sales and marketing agreement with Baxter Healthcare Corporation (“Baxter”) to market and sell our Hylenex product candidate in the United States and Puerto Rico. Baxter also has the right to market and sell Hylenex on an exclusive basis in all territories outside of the United States, if and when we seek and receive the applicable regulatory approvals in those territories. We depend upon the efforts of these third parties to promote and sell our current products, but there can be no assurance that the efforts of these third parties will meet our expectations or result in any significant product sales. 12 Table of Contents If our sole contract manufacturer is unable to manufacture our products, our product development and commercialization efforts could be delayed or stopped. We have signed a commercial supply agreement with Avid Bioservices, Inc. (“Avid”), a contract manufacturing organization, to produce bulk recombinant human hyaluronidase for clinical trials and commercial use. Avid will produce the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in each of Cumulase, Hylenex, Chemophase, and Enhanze Technology under cGMP for commercial scale production and will provide support for the chemistry, manufacturing and controls sections for FDA regulatory filings. Avid has only limited experience manufacturing our active pharmaceutical ingredient batches and we rely on its ability to successfully manufacture these batches according to product specifications. In addition, as a result of our Roche Agreement, we are required to scale up our active pharmaceutical ingredient production in order to meet our contractual demands. If Avid does not maintain its status as an FDA-approved manufacturing facility, is unable to successfully scale our active pharmaceutical ingredient production, or is unable to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient used in our products and product candidates for any other reason, the commercialization of our products and the development of our product candidates will be delayed and our business will be adversely affected. We have not established and may not be able to establish arrangements with additional manufacturers for these ingredients or products should the existing supplies become unavailable or in the event that our sole contract manufacturer is unable to adequately perform its responsibilities. Any delays or interruptions in the supply of materials by Avid could cause the delay of clinical trials and could delay or prevent the commercialization of product candidates that may receive regulatory approval. Such delays or interruptions would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we have problems with the third parties that prepare, fill, finish, and package our product candidates for distribution, our product development and commercialization efforts for these candidates could be delayed or stopped. In the event that any of our product candidates are used in clinical trials or receive the necessary regulatory approval for commercialization, we rely on third parties to prepare, fill, finish, and package the products prior to their distribution. If we are unable to locate third parties to perform these functions on terms that are economically acceptable to us, the progress of clinical trials could be delayed or even suspended and the commercialization of approved product candidates could be delayed or prevented. We currently utilize a third-party to prepare, fill, finish, and package Cumulase. This third party has only limited experience manufacturing Cumulase batches and we rely on its ability to successfully manufacture Cumulase according to product specifications. In addition, one of our distributors, who utilizes our raw material for Cumulase in production of their proprietary product, is experiencing technical challenges integrating our raw material into their proprietary manufacturing process. If our third party manufacturer is unable to successfully manufacture Cumulase, or if our distributor is unable to resolve their technical issues, we may be unable to supply enough Cumulase product to meet demand. In addition, we currently utilize a subsidiary of Baxter Healthcare Corporation (“Baxter”) to prepare, fill, finish, and package Hylenex under a development and supply agreement. Baxter has only limited experience manufacturing Hylenex batches and we rely on its ability to successfully manufacture Hylenex batches according to product specifications. Any delays or interruptions in Baxter’s ability to manufacture Hylenex batches could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Developing and marketing pharmaceutical products for human use involves product liability risks, for which we currently have limited insurance coverage. The testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, product liability claims can be high in the pharmaceutical industry and our insurance may not sufficiently cover our actual liabilities. If product liability claims were made against us, it is possible that our insurance carriers may deny, or attempt to deny, coverage in certain instances. If a lawsuit against us is successful, then the lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could affect materially and adversely our business and financial condition. Furthermore, various distributors of pharmaceutical products require minimum product liability insurance coverage before their purchase or acceptance of products for distribution. Failure to satisfy these insurance requirements could impede our ability 13 Table of Contents to achieve broad distribution of our proposed products and the imposition of higher insurance requirements could impose additional costs on us. Our inability to attract, hire and retain key management and scientific personnel, and to recruit qualified independent directors, could negatively affect our business. Our success depends on the performance of key management and scientific employees with biotechnology experience. Given our small staff size and programs currently under development, we depend substantially on our ability to hire, train, retain and motivate high quality personnel, especially our scientists and management team in this field. In addition, we rely on the expertise and guidance of independent directors to develop business strategies and to guide our execution of these strategies. Due to changes in the regulatory environment for public companies over the past few years, the demand for independent directors has increased and it may be difficult for us, due to competition from both like-sized and larger companies, to recruit qualified independent directors. Furthermore, if we were to lose key management personnel, particularly Jonathan Lim, M.D., our chief executive officer, or Gregory Frost, Ph.D., our chief scientific officer, then we would likely lose some portion of our institutional knowledge and technical know-how, potentially causing a substantial delay in one or more of our development programs until adequate replacement personnel could be hired and trained. For example, Dr. Frost has been with us from soon after our inception, and he possesses a substantial amount of knowledge about our development efforts. If we were to lose his services, we would experience delays in meeting our product development schedules. We have not entered into any retention or other agreements specifically designed to motivate officers or other employees to remain with Halozyme other than standard agreements relating to the vesting of stock options that every optionee of Halozyme must enter into as a condition of receiving an option grant. We do not have key man life insurance policies on the lives of any of our employees, including Dr. Lim and Dr. Frost. Risks Related To Our Stock Future sales of shares of our common stock upon the exercise of currently outstanding securities or pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement may negatively affect our stock price. As a result of our January 2004 private financing transaction, we issued warrants to private investors for the purchase of 10,461,943 shares of common stock at purchase prices ranging from $0.77 to $1.75 per share. Currently, approximately 3.7 million shares of common stock remain issuable upon the exercise of these warrants. As a result of our October 2004 financing transaction, we issued warrants for the purchase of 2,709,542 shares of common stock at a purchase of $2.25 per share. The exercise of these warrants could result in significant dilution to stockholders at the time of exercise which could negatively affect our stock price. We currently have the ability, from time to time, to offer and sell up to $32.5 million of additional equity or debt securities under a currently effective universal shelf registration statement. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under our universal shelf registration statement could lower the market price of our common stock and impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. In the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other derivative securities convertible into Halozyme common stock. Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. We participate in a highly dynamic industry, which often results in significant volatility in the market price of common stock irrespective of company performance. As a result, our high and low stock prices during the twelve months ended February 28, 2007 were $9.70 and $2.15, respectively. We expect our stock price to continue to be subject to significant volatility and, in addition to the other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this report and all other risks and uncertainties that are either not known to us at this time or which we deem to be immaterial, any of the following factors may lead to a significant drop in our stock price: • our failure, or the failure of one of our third-party partners, to comply with the terms of our partnerships; • general negative conditions in the healthcare industry; 14 Table of Contents • general negative conditions in the financial markets; • the failure, for any reason, to obtain FDA approval for any of our products; • the failure, for any reason, to secure or defend our intellectual property position; • for those products that are approved by the FDA, the failure of the FDA to approve such products in a timely manner consistent with the FDA’s historical approval process; • the suspension of our Chemophase clinical trial due to safety or patient tolerability issues; • our failure, or the failure of our third-party partners, to successfully commercialize products approved by the FDA; • our failure, or the failure of our third-party partners, to generate product revenues anticipated by investors; • problems with our sole API contract manufacturer or our sole fill and finish manufacturer for Hylenex; • the exercise of our right to redeem certain outstanding warrants to purchase our common stock; and • the sale of additional debt and/or equity securities by us. Trading in our stock has historically been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want to at prevailing market prices. Notwithstanding recent increases to the daily trading volume, our stock has historically traded at a lower daily trading volume. If current trading volumes do not continue and limited trading in our stock returns, it may be difficult for stockholders to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Our decision to redeem outstanding warrants may drive down the market price of our stock. We may have the ability to redeem certain outstanding warrants, under certain conditions, that may be exercised for approximately 2.3 million shares of common stock. The redemption price for these warrants is $0.01 per share, but the warrant holders have the opportunity to exercise their warrants prior to redemption at the price of $1.75 per share. If we decide to redeem any portion of our outstanding warrants in the future, some selling security holders may choose to sell outstanding shares of common stock in order to finance the exercise of the warrants prior to their redemption. This pattern of selling may result in a reduction of our common stock’s market price. Risks Related To Our Industry Compliance with the extensive government regulations to which we are subject is expensive and time consuming, and may result in the delay or cancellation of product sales, introductions or modifications. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business. All pharmaceutical companies, including Halozyme, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA and, to a lesser extent, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) and foreign and state government agencies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other domestic and foreign statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Under certain of these regulations, Halozyme and its contract suppliers and manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection of its or their respective facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of products by the FDA, the DEA and other authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that Halozyme and its contract suppliers and manufacturers are in compliance with all applicable regulations. The FDA also conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems, or our contract suppliers’ and manufacturers’ processes, are in compliance with cGMP and other FDA regulations. If we, or our contract supplier, fail these inspections, we may not be able to commercialize our product in a timely manner without incurring significant additional costs, or at all. 15 Table of Contents In addition, the FDA imposes a number of complex regulatory requirements on entities that advertise and promote pharmaceuticals, including, but not limited to, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the Internet. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping our products. Consequently, there is always a risk that the FDA or other applicable governmental authorities will not approve our products, or will take post-approval action limiting or revoking our ability to sell our products, or that the rate, timing and cost of such approvals will adversely affect our product introduction plans or results of operations. Our suppliers and sole manufacturer are subject to regulation by the FDA and other agencies, and if they do not meet their commitments, we would have to find substitute suppliers or manufacturers, which could delay the supply of our products to market. Regulatory requirements applicable to pharmaceutical products make the substitution of suppliers and manufacturers costly and time consuming. We have no internal manufacturing capabilities and are, and expect to be in the future, entirely dependent on contract manufacturers and suppliers for the manufacture of our products and for their active and other ingredients. The disqualification of these manufacturers and suppliers through their failure to comply with regulatory requirements could negatively impact our business because the delays and costs in obtaining and qualifying alternate suppliers (if such alternative suppliers are available, which we cannot assure) could delay clinical trials or otherwise inhibit our ability to bring approved products to market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may be required to initiate or defend against legal proceedings related to intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense, delay and/or cessation of the development and commercialization of our products. We rely on patents to protect our intellectual property rights. The strength of this protection, however, is uncertain. For example, it is not certain that: • our patents and pending patent applications cover products and/or technology that we invented first; • we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies; • any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; and • any of our issued patents, or patent pending applications that result in issued patents, will be held valid and infringed in the event the patents are asserted against others. We currently own or license several U.S. patents and also have pending patent applications. There can be no assurance that our existing patents, or any patents issued to us as a result of our pending patent applications, will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will not face third-party challenges or be the subject of further proceedings limiting their scope or enforceability. Such limitations in our patent portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, if any of our pending patent applications do not result in issued patents, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may become involved in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of our inventions. In addition, costly litigation could be necessary to protect our patent position. We also rely on trademarks to protect the names of our products. These trademarks may be challenged by others. If we enforce our trademarks against third parties, such enforcement proceedings may be expensive. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect with confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others with whom we discuss our business. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of these agreements, and we might not be able to resolve these disputes in our favor. 16 Table of Contents In addition to protecting our own intellectual property rights, third parties may assert patent, trademark or copyright infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on what they believe are their own intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any intellectual property litigation, we may be required to pay substantial damages, including but not limited to treble damages, for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third-party’s intellectual property rights. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, we may be stopped from developing, manufacturing or selling our products until we obtain a license from the owner of the relevant technology or other intellectual property rights. If such a license is available at all, it may require us to pay substantial royalties or other fees. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. In order to augment our product pipeline or otherwise strengthen our business, we may decide to acquire additional businesses, products and technologies. As we have limited experience in evaluating and completing acquisitions, our ability as an organization to make such acquisitions is unproven. Acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • we may have to issue convertible debt or equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; • an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it may require us to incur large one-time charges to earnings, amortize or write down amounts related to goodwill and other intangible assets, or incur or assume substantial debt or liabilities, or it may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we acquire; • certain acquisitions may disrupt our relationship with existing customers who are competitive with the acquired business; • acquisitions may require significant capital infusions and the acquired businesses, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs; • an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; • acquisitions may involve the entry into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience; and • key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. If any of these risks occurred, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do pursue any acquisitions, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions or that the market will not view such acquisitions positively. If third-party reimbursement and customer contracts are not available, our products may not be accepted in the market. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other healthcare providers. Third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products to contain costs. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Third-party payers may not establish adequate levels of reimbursement for the products that we commercialize, which could limit their market acceptance and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Customer contracts, such as with group paying organizations and hospital formularies, will often not offer contract or formulary status without either the lowest price or substantial proven clinical differentiation. If our products are compared to animal-extracted hyaluronidases by these entities, it is possible that neither of these conditions will be met, which could limit market acceptance and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The rising cost of healthcare and related pharmaceutical product pricing has led to cost-containment pressures that could cause us to sell our products at lower prices, resulting in less revenue to us. Any of our products that have been or in the future are approved by the FDA may be purchased or reimbursed by state and federal government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations. Such third-party payors increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of such organizations, and various legislative proposals and enactments to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Modernization Act of 2003, could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products are prescribed and purchased, resulting in lower prices and/or a reduction in demand. Such cost containment measures and healthcare reforms could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Furthermore, individual states have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Legally mandated price controls on payment amounts by third-party payors or other restrictions could negatively and materially impact our revenues and financial condition. We anticipate that we will encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries outside the United States. We face intense competition and rapid technological change that could result in the development of products by others that are superior to the products we are developing. We have numerous competitors in the United States and abroad, including, among others, major pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions that may be developing competing products. Such competitors include, but are not limited to, Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (ISTA), Amphastar Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Primapharm, Inc., among others. These competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective, safer, or less costly than our current or future product candidates or that could render our technologies and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of these competitors have substantially more resources and product development, manufacturing and marketing experience and capabilities than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical product candidates and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and therapies for use in healthcare. Other manufacturers have FDA approved products for use as spreading agents, including ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“ISTA”), with an ovine-derived hyaluronidase, Vitrase®, Amphastar Pharmaceuticals, Inc., with a bovine-derived hyaluronidase, Amphadasetm, and Primapharm, Inc., also with a bovine-derived hyaluronidase, Hydasetm. The FDA has determined that Amphadase, Hydase, Hylenex and Vitrase are distinct new chemical entities and hence afforded five years of market exclusivity. The five year market exclusivity precludes identical new chemical entity products from being marketed for a period of five years. As each of these products is established as distinctly different new chemical entities the marketing exclusivity granted does not prohibit the marketing of the products. We are exposed to product liability claims, and insurance against these claims may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. We might incur substantial liability in connection with clinical trials or the sale of our products. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We currently carry a limited amount of product liability insurance. A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could materially harm our business and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 