Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risk. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. This could cause the price of our stock to decline and shareholders could lose part or all of their investment. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Holding Southern Community Common Stock Continued slow economic growth in our market area could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Economic growth and migration into our market areas in North Carolina has slowed significantly and our real estate markets have been subject to a significant decline in value. In prior years, these markets experienced substantial growth in population, new business formation, and residential real estate sales activity. A significant amount of our growth was based upon our loans to residential builders. Current economic conditions have resulted in a decrease in residential real estate sales activity in our markets, which has limited our lending opportunities and negatively affected our loan portfolio and earnings. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve significantly in the near-term, and accordingly, this could lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolio. A prolonged period of slow economic growth could have a further material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Page 14 Our business strategy focuses on organic growth within our target markets and, if we fail to manage our growth effectively, it would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to continue pursuing a prudent, disciplined growth strategy for our business. Over this past year, economic conditions have limited the amount of loan demand in our markets as well as nationally. While the size of our loan portfolio has declined during 2009, our focus has been on profitability, especially loan and deposit pricing. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in mature stages of development. In order to execute our growth strategy successfully, we must among other things: · Identify and expand into suitable markets and lines of business; · Build our customer base; · Maintain credit quality; · Attract sufficient deposits to fund our anticipated loan growth; · Attract and retain qualified bank management in each of our targeted markets; · Identify and pursue suitable opportunities for opening new banking locations; and · Maintain adequate regulatory capital. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy Failure to effectively manage our credit risk may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. The risk on non-payment of loans is inherent in commercial banking. We cannot assure you that our credit approval procedures and loan monitoring procedures will adequately reduce these lending risks. We cannot assure you that our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures will adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting our customers or the quality of our loan portfolio. Declines in the net worth of our borrowers or the value of their loan collateral could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further declines in the value of commercial and residential real estate may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation. Our real estate lending activities, and the exposure to fluctuations in commercial and residential real estate values, are significant. At December 31, 2009, approximately 72% of the Bank’s loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. We have been adversely impacted by the decline in real estate values in our market during 2009. These declines in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for our loan portfolio continues to decline materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized and we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan. The inability of purchasers of real estate, including residential real estate, to obtain financing may weaken the financial condition of our borrowers dependent on the sale or refinancing of the property. If we restructure loans to improve the prospects of collectability, such actions may require loans to be treated as troubled debt restructurings, or non-performing loans which could adversely affect the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and our capital. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Declines in the value of commercial and residential real estate in our markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Page 15 Our construction loans are subject to additional lending risks that could adversely affect earnings. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 21.9% of our total loan portfolio was comprised of construction, acquisition and development loans. In the event of a continuing general economic slowdown, these loans may have additional risk due to the borrower’s inability to repay on a timely basis. In addition to the normal repayment risk and potential decreases in real estate values, construction lending may pose additional risks that affect repayment and the value and marketability of real estate collateral, such as: · Developers, builders or owners may fail to complete or develop projects; · Developers, builders, or owners may experience a decline in liquidity and secondary sources of repayment; · Municipalities may place moratoriums on building, utility connections or required certifications; · Developers may fail to sell the improved real estate; · There may be construction delays and cost overruns; · Loans with rising variable rates may experience increases in the borrower’s payments on the loan at a time when the borrower’s income is under stress; · Collateral may prove insufficient; · Permanent financing may not be obtained in a timely manner; or · Economic conditions may negatively impact demand for our borrower’s product. Any of these conditions could negatively affect collectability, our net income and our financial condition. Our financial condition or results of operation may be adversely affected if we experience higher loan losses that we have provided for in our loan loss allowance. Our reliance on historic loan loss experience and other assumptions related to our assessment of the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses may not be warranted under the current economic situation. Approximately 75% of our loan portfolio is composed of construction, commercial mortgage and commercial loans. Repayment of such loans is generally considered subject to greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. Historic loan losses may not be a sufficient guide given the current economic environment. Losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including, among other things, overall economic conditions, changes in market conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and problems affecting the credit of our borrowers. If our loan losses are more than what we have provided for in our loan loss assumptions, those losses could negatively affect our earnings. Our financial condition or results of operation may be adversely affected if our controls and procedures fail or are circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure to circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our de novo branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than our revenues. We moved from temporary facilities into new permanent buildings, for Asheville during the second quarter 2009 and for Raleigh during the third quarter 2009. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches. New branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they generate certain levels of loans and deposits. Accordingly, our new branches can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Finally, we have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. Page 16 If Southern Community loses key employees with significant business contacts in its market area, its business may suffer. Southern Community’s success is dependent on the personal contacts of its officers and employees in its market area. If Southern Community lost key employees temporarily or permanently, its business could be hurt. Southern Community could be particularly hurt if its key employees went to work for competitors. Southern Community’s future success depends on the continued contributions of its existing senior management personnel, particularly on the efforts of F. Scott Bauer and Jeff T. Clark, each of whom has significant local experience and contacts in its market area. While we have entered into employment agreements with certain key employees, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining those or other key employees. We may be unable to pay future cash dividends or other obligations of the Company, which may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our Board of Directors discontinued cash dividends on our common stock during 2009 in order to conserve our capital. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital. Since the parent company has no operations, we are dependent upon our bank subsidiary as the operating company as a source of funds to pay cash dividends. North Carolina banking law requires a bank to pay cash dividends out of retained earnings and no cash dividends may be paid if payment of the dividend would cause the bank’s surplus to be less than 50% of its paid-in capital. Until our subsidiary bank has earnings, it may not be prudent for the Bank to pay dividends to us, and we could be unable to pay cash dividends on our common stock or meet debt or other contractual obligations. If we are unable to pay the cash dividends on the preferred stock held by the US Treasury, we are subject to the contractual imposition of conditions by the US Treasury, including the election of new board members by the US Treasury. The inability to pay cash dividends or the imposition of conditions by the US Treasury for failure to pay preferred stock dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our trading volume has been low compared with larger bank holding companies which may cause the market price of our stock to be more volatile. The average daily trading volume of our shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the three months ended February 26, 2010 was approximately 16,497 shares. Lightly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market like that for larger bank holding companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a significant number of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Page 17 Given the current depressed market value of our common stock, if we were required to raise additional capital, it could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had 13,212,325 million shares of additional authorized common stock available for issuance, and 957,250 million of additional authorized preferred shares available for issuance. We are not restricted from issuing additional authorized shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. We, as well as our banking regulators, continue to regularly perform a variety of capital analyses, including the preparation of stress case scenarios, taking into account our regulatory capital ratios, financial condition, and other relevant considerations. If it becomes appropriate in order to maintain or increase our capital levels above our already “well capitalized” levels, we may opportunistically issue in public or private transactions additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into our exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. There could also be market perceptions that we need to raise additional capital, and regardless of the outcome of any stress test or other stress case analysis, such perceptions could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Shareholders of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series. Therefore, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to existing common shareholders. The market price of our common stock could also decline as a result of sales or in anticipation of such sales. Our financial condition or results of operation may be adversely affected if we are required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments in the future. Recent insured depository institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased the loss provisions of the FDIC, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured depository institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years. Therefore, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000 through December 31, 2013, which may result in even larger losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. These developments have caused an increase to our FDIC insurance premium assessments, and the FDIC may be required to make additional increases to the assessment rates or to levy additional special assessments on us. Higher insurance premiums and assessments increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We are unable to predict the impact in future periods, including whether and when additional special assessments will occur. Significant additional FDIC insurance premium assessments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Failure to realize our deferred tax asset could have a material adverse effect on our capital. We calculate income taxes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), which require the use of the asset and liability method. The largest component of our net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2009 was related to the activity in our allowance for loan losses. During 2009, the book-tax differences between our provision for loan losses and our net charge-offs generated a $4.2 million increase in our deferred tax assets. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we regularly assess available positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that our deferred tax asset balances will be recovered. Based upon our analysis of our tax position, including taxes paid in prior years available through carryback, and projections of loan loss provision versus our anticipated loan charge-offs for 2010, we established a $2.0 million valuation allowance to properly state the realizability of this deferred tax asset. We anticipate that it is more likely than not we will have sufficient future earnings to utilize this asset to offset future income tax liabilities. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently speculative because it requires the future occurrence of circumstances that cannot be predicted with certainty. We may not achieve sufficient future taxable income as the basis for the ultimate realization of our net deferred tax asset and therefore we may have to increase the valuation allowance at some point in the future. If an increase in the valuation allowance is necessary, it would require us to incur a charge to operations that could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and capital position. Failure to maintain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Given current economic conditions, capital resources may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to the Company if it becomes necessary in order to maintain our capital levels at or above the “well capitalized” level. An undercapitalized bank is subject to various restrictions depending on the extent of the lack of capital. A bank may be prohibited from increasing its assets, engaging in a new line of business, acquiring any interest in any company or insured depository institution, or opening or acquiring a new branch office, except under certain circumstances, including the acceptance by the FDIC of a capital restoration plan for the bank. Certain of these restrictions, such as a prohibition on renewing brokered certificates of deposit, become applicable as soon as the bank no longer qualifies as “well capitalized.” Therefore, failure to maintain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Page 18 We face strong competition in our market areas, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. The banking business in our primary market areas, in North Carolina, is very competitive. We experience competition in both lending and attracting funds from other banks and nonbank financial institutions located within our market areas. Some of our banking competitors are significantly larger, well-established institutions. Nonbank competitors for deposits and deposit-type accounts include savings associations, credit unions, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds. For loans, we encounter competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, small loan and credit card companies, credit unions, pension trusts and securities firms. We face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of multi-state geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. This competition may limit our asset growth and profitability. In addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, government regulations may prevent or impair our ability to engage in acquisitions or operate in other ways. We are subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks. Our principal bank subsidiary, Southern Community Bank and Trust, as a state chartered commercial bank, also receives regulatory scrutiny from the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks and the FDIC. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit our growth and the return to you as an investor, by restricting our activities, such as: · The payment of dividends to shareholders; · The amounts of capital we must retain; · Possible transactions with or acquisitions by other institutions; · Desired investments; · Loans we can make; · Interest rates we can pay on deposits; and · The possible expansion of branch offices. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our business. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. In the past, we have sought to increase the size of our franchise by pursuing business development opportunities and we have grown rapidly since our incorporation. We have purchased another financial institution as a part of that strategy. We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of those entities in the future. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: · The time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; · The accuracy of estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target entity; · The time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · Our ability to finance an acquisition and possible ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders; · The diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of the transaction and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; · Entry into new markets where we lack experience; Page 19 · The introduction of new products and services into our business; · The incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and · The risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders and to investors purchasing common stock in this offering. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisition, our integration efforts will be successful or our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. Our Articles of Incorporation include anti-takeover provisions that may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares or effecting a transaction favored by a majority of shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation include certain anti-takeover provisions, such as being subject to the Shareholder Protection Act and Control Share Acquisition Act under North Carolina law and a provision allowing our Board of Directors to consider the social and economic effects of a proposed merger, which may discourage a change of control of the Company by allowing minority shareholders to prevent a transaction favored by a majority of the shareholders. The primary purpose of these provisions is to encourage negotiations with our management by persons interested in acquiring control of our Company. These provisions may also tend to perpetuate present management and make it difficult for shareholders owning less than a majority of the shares to be able to elect even a single director. These provisions may have the effect of preventing shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of common stock in a change of control transaction. Holders of our trust preferred securities have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $44.5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of this special purpose trust are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trust are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. Our common stock is not FDIC insured. Our common stock is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Deposit Insurance Fund or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Risks Related to an Investment in the Trust II Securities If we do not make interest payments under the debentures, the trust will be unable to pay distributions and liquidation amounts. The guarantee would not apply because the guarantee covers payments only if the trust has funds available. Trust II will depend solely on our payments on the debentures to pay amounts due to holders of the Trust II Securities on the debentures. Without these payments, the trust will not have sufficient funds to pay distributions or the liquidation amount on the Trust II Securities. In that case, holders of the Trust II Securities will not be able to rely on the guarantee for payment of these amounts because the guarantee only applies if the trust has sufficient funds to make distributions or to pay the liquidation amount. Instead, holders of the Trust II Securities or the property trustee will have to institute a direct action against us to enforce the property trustee’s rights under the indenture relating to the debentures. Page 20 We must rely on dividends from our bank subsidiary to make interest payments on the debentures to the trust. Our ability to make payments on the debentures when due will depend primarily long term on dividends received from our bank subsidiary because we are a holding company and substantially all of our assets are held by our bank subsidiary. In addition, the holding company has utilized some of the proceeds from the Treasury’s preferred stock investment to make interest payments under the debentures during periods when the bank subsidiary has been restricted from paying dividends to the holding company due to reduced profitability. The ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends is subject to legal restrictions and the Bank’s profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements. We may also borrow additional funds, issue debt instruments, issue and sell shares of preferred stock, or engage in other types of financing activities, in order to increase our capital. Covenants contained in loan or financing agreements or other debt instruments could restrict or condition our payment of cash dividends based on various financial considerations or factors. Regulatory authorities may limit dividends paid to us and thereby our ability to make interest payments on the debentures to the trust. We cannot assure holders of the Trust II Securities that our bank subsidiary will be able to pay dividends in the future due to regulatory restrictions or that our regulators will not attempt to preclude us from making interest payments on the subordinated debentures. North Carolina banking law requires that cash dividends be paid by a bank only out of retained earnings and prohibits the payment of cash dividends if payment of the dividend would cause the bank’s surplus to be less than 50% of its paid-in capital. Until our subsidiary bank has earnings, it may not be prudent for the Bank to pay dividends to us, which would otherwise be available for interest payments on the debentures. We may also be precluded from making interest payments on the subordinated debentures by our regulators in order to address any perceived deficiencies in liquidity or regulatory capital levels at the holding company level. Such regulatory action would require us to obtain consent from our regulators prior to paying dividends on our common stock or interest on the subordinated debentures. In the event our regulators withheld their consent to our payment of interest on the subordinated debentures, we would exercise our right to defer interest payments on the subordinated debentures, and the trust would not have funds available to make distributions on the Trust II Securities during such period. Our obligation to make interest payments to the trust on the debentures is subordinated to existing liabilities or additional debt we may incur. Our obligations under the debentures and the guarantee are unsecured and will rank junior in priority of payment to our existing liabilities and any future senior and subordinated indebtedness. However, our issuance of the debentures and the Trust II Securities does not limit our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, guarantees or other liabilities. Also, because we are a holding company, the creditors of our bank subsidiary, including depositors, also will have priority over holders of the Trust II Securities in any distribution of our subsidiaries’ assets in liquidation, reorganization or otherwise. Accordingly, the debentures and the guarantee will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries, and holders of the Trust II Securities should look only to our assets for payments on the Trust II Securities and the debentures. We have the option to defer interest payments on the debentures for substantial periods. As long as we are not in default under the indenture relating to the debentures, we may, at one or more times, defer interest payments on the debentures for up to 20 consecutive quarters. If we defer interest payments on the debentures, the trust will defer distributions on the Trust II Securities during any deferral period. If we defer interest payments, holders of the Trust II Securities will still be required to recognize the deferred interest amounts as income. During a deferral period, holders of the Trust II Securities will be required to recognize as income for federal income tax purposes the amount approximately equal to the interest that accrues on their proportionate share of the debentures, held by the trust in the tax year in which that interest accrues, even though holders of the Trust II Securities will not receive these amounts until a later date if they hold the Trust II Securities until the deferred interest is paid. Page 21 If holders of the Trust II Securities sell their securities during a deferral period, they will forfeit the deferred interest amount and only have a capital loss. Holders of the Trust II Securities will not receive the cash related to any accrued and unpaid interest from the trust if they sell the Trust II Securities before the end of any deferral period. During a deferral period, accrued but unpaid distributions will increase their tax basis in the Trust II Securities. If holders of the Trust II Securities sell the securities during a deferral period, their increased tax basis will decrease the amount of any capital gain or increase the amount of any capital loss that they may have otherwise realized on the sale. A capital loss, except in certain limited circumstances, cannot be applied to offset ordinary income. As a result, deferral of distributions could result in ordinary income and a related tax liability for the holder, and a capital loss that may only be used to offset a capital gain. Deferrals of interest payments may increase the volatility of the market price of the Trust II Securities. If we defer interest payments, the market price of the Trust II Securities would likely be adversely affected. The Trust II Securities may trade at a price that does not fully reflect the value of accrued but unpaid interest on the debentures. If holders of the Trust II Securities sell the securities during a deferral period, they may not receive the same return on investment as someone who continues to hold the Trust II Securities. Because of our right to defer interest payments, the market price of the Trust II Securities may be more volatile than the market prices of other securities without a deferral feature. There are no financial covenants in the indenture and the trust agreement The indenture governing the debentures and the trust agreement governing the trust do not require us to maintain any financial ratios or specified levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flow or liquidity. The instruments do not protect holders of the debentures or the Trust II Securities in the event we experience significant adverse changes in our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, neither the indenture nor the trust agreement limits our ability or the ability of any subsidiary to incur additional indebtedness. Therefore, holders of the Trust II Securities should not consider the provisions of these governing instruments as a significant factor in evaluating whether we will be able to comply with our obligations under the debentures or the guarantee. We may not redeem the Trust II Securities without the consent of the US Treasury until the earlier of December 6, 2011 or until we redeem the preferred stock we sold to the Treasury or the Treasury transfers ownership of the preferred stock. The Company has issued Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, to the US Treasury. As a condition of this sale to the US Treasury, the Company agreed that it may not repurchase or redeem any of its trust preferred securities, including the Trust II Securities, without the consent of the US Treasury, prior to the earlier of (i) December 6, 2011 or (ii) the date upon which we either redeem the Series A preferred shares or the Treasury transfers ownership of the Series A preferred shares to a third party. Therefore, holders of the Trust II Securities should have no expectation that we will redeem the Trust II Securities during this period. We may redeem some or all of the debentures and reduce the period during which holders of the Trust II Securities will receive distributions. We have the option to redeem any or all of the outstanding debentures without the payment of any premium upon satisfaction of the conditions to our sale of preferred stock to the US Treasury. Upon early redemption, holders of the Trust II Securities may be required to reinvest their principal at a time when they may not be able to earn a return that is as high as they were earning on the Trust II Securities. Page 22 We may redeem all of the debentures after December 6, 2011 upon the occurrence of certain events. We may redeem all of the debentures before their stated maturity without payment of premium within 90 days after certain occurrences. These occurrences include adverse tax, investment company or bank regulatory developments. Upon early redemption (in compliance with the conditions of our sale of preferred stock to the US Treasury), holders of the Trust II Securities may be required to reinvest their principal at a time when they may not be able to earn a return that is as high as they were earning on the Trust II Securities. We can distribute the debentures to holders of the Trust II Securities, which may have adverse tax consequences for holders of the Trust II Securities and could also adversely affect the market price of the Trust II Securities. The trustees may dissolve the trust before maturity of the debentures and distribute the debentures to holders of the Trust II Securities under the terms of the trust agreement. Under current interpretations of United States federal income tax laws supporting classification of the trust as a grantor trust for tax purposes, a distribution of the debentures to holders of the Trust II Securities upon the dissolution of the trust would not be a taxable event. Nevertheless, if the trust is classified for United States income tax purposes as an association taxable as a corporation at the time it is dissolved, the distribution of the debentures would be a taxable event to holders of the Trust II Securities. In addition, if there is a change in law, a distribution of the debentures upon the dissolution of the trust could be a taxable event to holders of the Trust II Securities. Also, the debentures that holders of the Trust II Securities may receive if the trust is liquidated may trade at a discount to the price that was paid to purchase the Trust II Securities. Holders of the Trust II Securities must rely on the property trustee to enforce their rights if there is an event of default under the indenture. Holders of the Trust II Securities may not be able to directly enforce their rights against us under the indenture if an event of default occurs. If an event of default occurs under the indenture, holders of the Trust II Securities must rely on the enforcement by the property trustee of its rights as holder of the debentures against us. The holders of a majority in liquidation amount of the Trust II Securities will have the right to direct the property trustee to enforce its rights. If the property trustee does not enforce its rights following an event of default and there is no request by the record holders of the debentures to do so, any record holder may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, take action directly against us to enforce the property trustee’s rights. If an event of default occurs that is attributable to our failure to pay interest or principal on the debentures, or if we default under the guarantee, holders of the Trust II Securities may proceed directly against us. Holders of the Trust II Securities will not be able to exercise directly any other remedies available to the holders of the debentures, unless the property trustee fails to do so. Holders of Trust II Securities have limited voting rights to replace the property trustee and the Delaware trustee. Holders of Trust II Securities only have voting rights that pertain primarily to certain amendments to the trust agreement. In general, only we can replace or remove any of the trustees. The holders of at least a majority in aggregate liquidation amount of the Trust II Securities may replace the property trustee and the Delaware trustee only if an event of default under the trust agreement occurs and is continuing. The subordinated debentures and the Trust II Securities do not represent deposit accounts and are not insured. The subordinated debentures and the Trust II Securities do not represent bank deposit accounts and they are not obligations issued or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or by any other governmental agency and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Page 23 Item 