Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risk. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. This could cause the price of our stock to decline and shareholders could lose part or all of their investment. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Holding Southern Community Common Stock If we fail to comply with regulatory orders effectively, it would negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to continue to address the issues raised by our regulators in connection with the Consent Order we executed with the FDIC and the NCCOB on February 25, 2011. The Consent Order requires us to report to the regulators at least quarterly on our efforts to address, among other things, the management and oversight of the Bank, a reduction in the Bank’s classified assets and concentrations of credit, and an improvement in the Bank’s earnings. We have substantially complied with the Consent Order provisions over the past year, including: ·Maintaining capital in excess of regulatory imposed minimum levels; ·Reduced classified assets (as contained in the June 30, 2010 Report of Examination) in the aggregate in excess of the benchmarks set in the Consent Order; ·Significantly reduced our reliance on brokered deposits to 12.5% of total deposits at December 31, 2011 (and expect our brokered deposits to be less than 10% of total deposits by March 31, 2012); ·Improving Bank profitability; and ·Formulated a plan to address the recommendations in the management assessment report prepared by an independent consultant. After being approved by the FDIC/NCCOB, this plan is in process of being implemented. Page 16 While the provisions of the Consent Order remain in effect, our prospects to continue to comply and have these regulatory restrictions lifted must be evaluated in light of the continued risks, expenses and difficulties in addressing these issues. Our ability to achieve the goal of lifting the Consent Order will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable and profitable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our responses to these issues. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Consent Order could result in further adverse regulatory action and restrictions on our activities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Given the current depressed market value of our common stock, if we were required to raise additional capital, it could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had 13,172,925 shares of additional authorized common stock available for issuance, and 957,250 shares of additional authorized preferred shares available for issuance. We are not restricted from issuing additional authorized shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. We, as well as our banking regulators, continue to regularly perform a variety of capital analyses, including the preparation of stress case scenarios, taking into account our regulatory capital ratios, financial condition, and other relevant considerations. If it becomes appropriate in order to maintain or increase our capital levels, we may opportunistically issue in public or private transactions additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, our common stock. There could also be market perceptions that we need to raise additional capital, and regardless of the outcome of any stress test or other stress case analysis, such perceptions could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Shareholders of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series. Therefore, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to existing common shareholders. The market price of our common stock could also decline as a result of sales or in anticipation of such sales. Failure to maintain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Given current economic conditions, capital resources may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to the Company if it becomes necessary in order to maintain our capital levels at or above the minimum level specified in the Consent Order (see “Supervision and Regulation”). If the Bank fails to comply with the minimum capital levels in the Consent Order, the Bank may be subject to further restrictions. An undercapitalized bank is subject to various restrictions depending on the extent of the lack of capital. A bank may be prohibited from increasing its assets, engaging in a new line of business, acquiring any interest in any company or insured depository institution, or opening or acquiring a new branch office, except under certain circumstances, including the acceptance by the FDIC of a capital restoration plan for the bank. Therefore, failure to maintain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Continued slow economic growth in our market area could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Economic growth and migration into our market areas in North Carolina has slowed significantly and our real estate markets have been subject to a significant decline in value. In prior years, these markets experienced substantial growth in population, new business formation, and residential real estate sales activity. A significant amount of our growth was based upon our loans to residential builders. Current economic conditions have resulted in a decrease in residential real estate sales activity in our markets, which has limited our lending opportunities and negatively affected our loan portfolio and earnings. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve significantly in the near term, and accordingly, this could lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolio. A prolonged period of slow economic growth could have a further material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Page 17 Failure to effectively manage our credit risk may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers and risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral. The risk on non-payment of loans is inherent in commercial banking. We cannot assure you that our credit approval procedures and loan monitoring procedures will adequately reduce these lending risks. We cannot assure you that our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures will adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting our customers or the quality of our loan portfolio. Declines in the net worth of our borrowers or the value of their loan collateral could have a continued material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further declines in the value of commercial and residential real estate may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation. Our real estate lending activities, and the exposure to fluctuations in commercial and residential real estate values, are significant. At December 31, 2011, approximately 85.4% of the Bank’s loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. We have been adversely impacted by the decline in real estate values in our market during 2011. These declines in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions that have relatively lower concentrations of real estate secured loan portfolios. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for our loan portfolio continues to decline materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized and we may not be able to realize the amount of security that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan. The inability of purchasers of real estate, including residential real estate, to obtain financing may weaken the financial condition of our borrowers dependent on the sale or refinancing of the property. If we restructure loans to improve the prospects of collectability, such actions may require loans to be treated as troubled debt restructurings, or non-performing loans which could adversely affect the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and our capital. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Foreclosed real estate may decline in value and we may be required to liquidate such assets at discounts to their appraised values. Declines in the value of commercial and residential real estate in our markets could continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our construction loans are subject to additional lending risks that could adversely affect earnings. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 15.0% of our total loan portfolio was comprised of construction, acquisition and development loans. In the event of a continuing general economic slowdown, these loans may have additional risk due to the borrower’s inability to repay on a timely basis. In addition to the normal repayment risk and potential decreases in real estate values, construction lending may pose additional risks that affect repayment and the value and marketability of real estate collateral, such as: ·Developers, builders or owners may fail to complete or develop projects; ·Developers, builders, or owners may experience a decline in liquidity and secondary sources of repayment; ·Municipalities may place moratoriums on building, utility connections or required certifications; ·Developers may fail to sell the improved real estate; ·There may be construction delays and cost overruns; ·Loans with rising variable rates may experience increases in the borrower’s payments on the loan at a time when the borrower’s income is under stress; ·Collateral may prove insufficient; ·Permanent financing may not be obtained in a timely manner; or ·Economic conditions may negatively impact demand for our borrower’s product. Any of these conditions could negatively affect collectability, our net income and our financial condition. Page 18 Our financial condition or results of operation may be adversely affected if we experience higher loan losses that we have provided for in our allowance for loan losses. Our reliance on historic loan loss experience and other assumptions related to our assessment of the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses may not be warranted under the current economic situation. Approximately 69.4% of our loan portfolio is composed of construction, commercial mortgage and commercial loans. Repayment of such loans is generally considered subject to greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. Historic loan losses may not be a sufficient guide given the current economic environment. Losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including, among other things, overall economic conditions, changes in market conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and problems affecting the credit of our borrowers. If our loan losses are more than what we have provided for in our loan loss assumptions, those losses could negatively affect our earnings. Our financial condition or results of operation may be adversely affected if our controls and procedures fail or are circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure to circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If Southern Community loses key employees with significant business contacts in its market area, its business may suffer. Southern Community’s success is dependent on the personal contacts of its officers and employees in its market area. If Southern Community lost key employees temporarily or permanently, its business could be hurt. Southern Community could be particularly hurt if its key employees went to work for competitors. Southern Community’s future success depends on the continued contributions of its existing senior management personnel, particularly on the efforts of F. Scott Bauer and Jeff T. Clark, each of whom has significant local experience and contacts in its market area. While we have entered into employment agreements with certain key employees, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining those or other key employees. Due to recent regulatory restrictions on us, we may be unable to pay future cash dividends or other obligations of the Company, which may have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our Board of Directors discontinued cash dividends on our common stock during 2009 in order to conserve our capital. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient capital. In connection with the Consent Order (see “Supervision and Regulation”), the Company is restricted from paying any dividends, common and preferred, and interest payments on trust preferred securities without Federal Reserve approval. Since the parent company has no operations, we are dependent upon our bank subsidiary as the operating company as a source of funds to pay future cash dividends. Under the provisions of the Consent Order with the FDIC and the NCCOB (see “Supervision and Regulation”), the Bank shall not declare or pay dividends without prior regulatory approval. As announced on February 17, 2011, the Company has suspended the payment of quarterly cash dividends on the preferred stock issued to the US Treasury and has deferred its quarterly interest payments on trust preferred securities to preserve cash resources at the holding company level. However, after the deferral of six quarterly payments to the US Treasury, we are subject to the contractual imposition of conditions by the US Treasury, including the election of two new board members by the US Treasury. The inability to pay cash dividends or the imposition of conditions by the US Treasury for failure to pay preferred stock dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our trading volume has been low compared with larger bank holding companies which may cause the market price of our stock to be more volatile. The average daily trading volume of our shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the three months ended February 29, 2012 was approximately 19,862 shares. Lightly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market like that for larger bank holding companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a significant number of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. Page 19 Our financial condition or results of operation may be adversely affected if we are required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments in the future. Recent insured depository institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have significantly increased the loss provisions of the FDIC, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured depository institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years. Therefore, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000, which may result in even larger losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. These developments have caused an increase to our FDIC insurance premium assessments, and the FDIC may be required to make additional increases to the assessment rates or to levy additional special assessments on us. As a result of the Consent Order, our FDIC insurance premium assessment has increased significantly (See “Supervision and Regulation”). Higher insurance premiums and assessments increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We are unable to predict the impact in future periods, including whether and when additional special assessments will occur. Significant additional FDIC insurance premium assessments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Failure to realize our deferred tax asset could have a material adverse effect on our capital. We calculate income taxes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“US GAAP”), which requires the use of the asset and liability method. The largest component of our net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2011 was related to the activity in our allowance for loan losses. In accordance with US GAAP, we regularly assess available positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that our deferred tax asset balances will be recovered. Based upon our analysis of our tax position, including taxes paid in prior years available through carryback and the use of tax planning strategies, we maintained a valuation allowance of $14.4 million as of December 31, 2011 to properly state our ability to realize our deferred tax assets. Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently speculative because it may require the future occurrence of circumstances that cannot be predicted with certainty. The realizability of the net deferred tax asset of $2.1 million at December 31, 2011 is substantially based on the offset of deferred tax liabilities and tax planning strategies. We face strong competition in our market areas, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. The banking business in our primary market areas, in North Carolina, is very competitive. We experience competition in both lending and attracting funds from other banks and nonbank financial institutions located within our market areas. Some of our banking competitors are significantly larger, well-established institutions. Nonbank competitors for deposits and deposit-type accounts include savings associations, credit unions, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds. For loans, we encounter competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, small loan and credit card companies, credit unions, pension trusts and securities firms. We face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of multi-state geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. This competition may limit our asset growth and profitability. The Consent Order restricts our asset growth without prior regulatory approval. Page 20 In addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, government regulations may prevent or impair our ability to engage in acquisitions or operate in other ways. We are subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks. Our principal bank subsidiary, Southern Community Bank and Trust, as a state chartered commercial bank, also receives regulatory scrutiny from the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks and the FDIC. In addition to the regulatory restrictions contained in the terms of the Consent Order (see “Supervision and Regulation”), banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit the return to you as an investor, by restricting our activities, such as: ·Desired investments; ·Loans we can make; ·The possible expansion of branch offices; and ·Possible transactions with or acquisitions by other institutions. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our business. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The US Treasury has the right to elect two directors to the Board if we defer more than six quarterly cash dividends on the preferred stock held by the US Treasury. On February 14, 2011, the Company announced that it had notified the US Department of the Treasury that it was suspending the payment of regular quarterly cash dividends on the preferred stock issued to the US Treasury. If we defer more than six quarterly payments to the US Treasury, then the US Treasury will have the right to elect two new board members. Directors elected by the US Treasury may not have the same interests as other shareholders and may desire the Company to take certain actions not supported by other shareholders. We can give no assurances that directors elected to represent the US Treasury would be supportive of our management’s business plans or the interests of other shareholders. Therefore, the election of directors to represent the US Treasury could have a material adverse effect on our business or the direction of its future prospects. Our Articles of Incorporation include anti-takeover provisions that may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares or effecting a transaction favored by a majority of shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation include certain anti-takeover provisions, such as being subject to the Shareholder Protection Act and Control Share Acquisition Act under North Carolina law and a provision allowing our Board of Directors to consider the social and economic effects of a proposed merger, which may discourage a change of control of the Company by allowing minority shareholders to prevent a transaction favored by a majority of the shareholders. The primary purpose of these provisions is to encourage negotiations with our management by persons interested in acquiring control of our Company. These provisions may also tend to perpetuate present management and make it difficult for shareholders owning less than a majority of the shares to be able to elect even a single director. These provisions may have the effect of preventing shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of common stock in a change of control transaction. Holders of our trust preferred securities have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. We have supported our continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $44.5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of this special purpose trust are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures we issued to the special purpose trust are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. In February 2011, the Company elected to defer regularly scheduled interest payments on both issues of junior subordinated debentures, related to our outstanding trust preferred securities. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. Page 21 Our common stock is not FDIC insured. Our common stock is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Deposit Insurance Fund or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Risks Related to an Investment in the Trust II and Trust III Securities If we do not make interest payments under the debentures, the trust will be unable to pay distributions and liquidation amounts. The guarantee would not apply because the guarantee covers payments only if the trust has funds available. Trust II will depend solely on our payments on the debentures to pay amounts due to holders of the Trust II Securities on the debentures. Without these payments, the trust will not have sufficient funds to pay distributions or the liquidation amount on the Trust II and Trust III Securities. In that case, holders of these securities will not be able to rely on the guarantee for payment of these amounts because the guarantee only applies if the trust has sufficient funds to make distributions or to pay the liquidation amount. Instead, holders of these securities or the property trustee will have to institute a direct action against us to enforce the property trustee’s rights under the indenture relating to the debentures. Under the terms of the Consent Order, we are not allowed to pay dividends from our bank subsidiary to our holding company to fund interest payments on the debentures to the trust. Prior to the issuance of the Consent Order (see “Supervision and Regulation”), ability to make payments on the debentures when due depended primarily on dividends received from our bank subsidiary because we are a holding company and substantially all of our assets are held by our bank subsidiary. In addition, the holding company has utilized some of the proceeds from the Treasury’s preferred stock investment to make interest payments under the debentures during periods when the bank subsidiary has been restricted from paying dividends to the holding company due to reduced profitability. The ability of our bank subsidiary to pay dividends is currently subject to regulatory restrictions. If these regulatory restrictions are lifted or waived, the bank subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends will be subject to the Bank’s profitability, financial condition, capital adequacy and cash flow requirements. The Company is required to obtain prior approval from regulatory bodies to borrow additional funds, issue debt instruments, issue and sell shares of preferred stock or engage in other types of financing activities at the holding company level. Our obligation to make interest payments to the trust on the debentures is subordinated to existing liabilities or additional debt we may incur. Our obligations under the debentures and the guarantee are unsecured and will rank junior in priority of payment to our existing liabilities and any future senior and subordinated indebtedness. Also, because we are a holding company, the creditors of our bank subsidiary, including depositors, also will have priority over holders of the Trust II Securities in any distribution of our subsidiaries’ assets in liquidation, reorganization or otherwise. Accordingly, the debentures and the guarantee will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries, and holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities should look only to our assets for payments on these obligations of the Company. We have the option to defer interest payments on the debentures for substantial periods. As we announced in February 2011, we have elected to defer interest payments on the debentures. As long as we are not in default under the indenture relating to the debentures, we may, at one or more times, defer interest payments on the debentures for up to 20 consecutive quarters. If we defer interest payments on the debentures, the trust will defer distributions on the Trust II and Trust III Securities during any deferral period. Page 22 As we defer interest payments, holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities will still be required to recognize the deferred interest amounts as income. During a deferral period, holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities will be required to recognize as income for federal income tax purposes the amount approximately equal to the interest that accrues on their proportionate share of the debentures, held by the trust in the tax year in which that interest accrues, even though holders of these securities will not receive these amounts until a later date if they hold these securities until the deferred interest is paid. If holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities sell their securities during a deferral period, they will forfeit the deferred interest amount and only have a capital loss. Holders of the Trust II and III Securities will not receive the cash related to any accrued and unpaid interest from the trust if they sell these securities before the end of any deferral period. During a deferral period, accrued but unpaid distributions will increase their tax basis in these securities. If holders of these securities sell the securities during a deferral period, their increased tax basis will decrease the amount of any capital gain or increase the amount of any capital loss that they may have otherwise realized on the sale. A capital loss, except in certain limited circumstances, cannot be applied to offset ordinary income. As a result, deferral of distributions could result in ordinary income and a related tax liability for the holder, and a capital loss that may only be used to offset a capital gain. Deferrals of interest payments may increase the volatility of the market price of the Trust II and Trust III Securities. As we defer interest payments, the market price of the Trust II and Trust III Securities will likely be adversely affected. The Trust II and Trust III Securities may trade at a price that does not fully reflect the value of accrued but unpaid interest on the debentures. If holders of these securities sell the securities during a deferral period, they may not receive the same return on investment as someone who continues to hold these securities. Because of our right to defer interest payments, the market price of these securities may be more volatile than the market prices of other securities without a deferral feature. There are no financial covenants in the indenture and the trust agreement. The indenture governing the debentures and the trust agreement governing the trust do not require us to maintain any financial ratios or specified levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flow or liquidity. The instruments do not protect holders of the debentures or the Trust II and Trust III Securities in the event we experience significant adverse changes in our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, neither the indenture nor the trust agreement limits our ability or the ability of any subsidiary to incur additional indebtedness. Therefore, holders of these securities should not consider the provisions of these governing instruments as a significant factor in evaluating whether we will be able to comply with our obligations under the debentures or the guarantee. We may not redeem the Trust II or the Trust III Securities without the consent of the US Treasury until we redeem the preferred stock we sold to the Treasury or the Treasury transfers ownership of the preferred stock. The Company has issued Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, to the US Treasury. As a condition of this sale to the US Treasury, the Company agreed that it may not repurchase or redeem any of its trust preferred securities, including the Trust II and Trust III Securities, without the consent of the US Treasury, prior to the date upon which we either redeem the Series A preferred shares or the Treasury transfers ownership of the Series A preferred shares to a third party. Therefore, holders of these securities should have no expectation that we will redeem until, at the earliest, such conditional event transpires. We may redeem some or all of the debentures and reduce the period during which holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities will receive distributions. We have the option to redeem any or all of the outstanding debentures without the payment of any premium upon satisfaction of the conditions to our sale of preferred stock to the US Treasury. Upon early redemption, holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities may be required to reinvest their principal at a time when they may not be able to earn a return that is as high as they were earning on these securities. We may redeem all of the debentures after December 6, 2011 upon the occurrence of certain events. We may redeem all of the debentures before their stated maturity without payment of premium within 90 days after certain occurrences. These occurrences include adverse tax, investment company or bank regulatory developments. Upon early redemption (in compliance with the conditions of our sale of preferred stock to the US Treasury), holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities may be required to reinvest their principal at a time when they may not be able to earn a return that is as high as they were earning on these securities. Page 23 We can distribute the debentures to holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities, which may have adverse tax consequences for holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities and could also adversely affect the market price of the Trust II and Trust III Securities. The trustees may dissolve the trust before maturity of the debentures and distribute the debentures to holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities under the terms of the trust agreement. Under current interpretations of United States federal income tax laws supporting classification of the trust as a grantor trust for tax purposes, a distribution of the debentures to holders of these securities upon the dissolution of the trust would not be a taxable event. Nevertheless, if the trust is classified for United States income tax purposes as an association taxable as a corporation at the time it is dissolved, the distribution of the debentures would be a taxable event to holders of these securities. In addition, if there is a change in law, a distribution of the debentures upon the dissolution of the trust could be a taxable event to holders of these securities. Also, the debentures that holders of these securities may receive if the trust is liquidated may trade at a discount to the price that was paid to purchase these securities. Holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities must rely on the property trustee to enforce their rights if there is an event of default under the indenture. Holders of the Trust II and Trust III Securities may not be able to directly enforce their rights against us under the indenture if an event of default occurs. If an event of default occurs under the indenture, holders of these securities must rely on the enforcement by the property trustee of its rights as holder of the debentures against us. The holders of a majority in liquidation amount of these securities will have the right to direct the property trustee to enforce its rights. If the property trustee does not enforce its rights following an event of default and there is no request by the record holders of the debentures to do so, any record holder may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, take action directly against us to enforce the property trustee’s rights. If an event of default occurs that is attributable to our failure to pay interest or principal on the debentures, or if we default under the guarantee, holders of these securities may proceed directly against us. Holders of these securities will not be able to exercise directly any other remedies available to the holders of the debentures, unless the property trustee fails to do so. Holders of Trust II and Trust III Securities have limited voting rights to replace the property trustee and the Delaware trustee. Holders of Trust II and Trust III Securities only have voting rights that pertain primarily to certain amendments to the trust agreement. In general, only we can replace or remove any of the trustees. The holders of at least a majority in aggregate liquidation amount of these securities may replace the property trustee and the Delaware trustee only if an event of default under the trust agreement occurs and is continuing. The subordinated debentures and the Trust II and Trust III Securities do not represent deposit accounts and are not insured. The subordinated debentures and the Trust II and Trust III Securities do not represent bank deposit accounts and they are not obligations issued or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or by any other governmental agency and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Page 24 