Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Also, these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have no plans to update our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements. iRobot, Roomba, Scooba, PackBot, Warrior, Looj, Verro, Create, ConnectR and AWARE are trademarks of iRobot Corporation. Gator, M-Gator and R-Gator are trademarks of Deere & Company. Overview iRobot Corporation (“iRobot” or the “Company”) provides robots that enable people to complete complex tasks in a better way. For over 18 years, we have developed proprietary technology incorporating advanced concepts in navigation, mobility, manipulation and artificial intelligence to build industry-leading robots. Our Roomba floor vacuuming robots, Scooba floor washing robot and Looj gutter cleaning robot perform time-consuming domestic chores, and our PackBot tactical military robots perform battlefield reconnaissance and bomb disposal. In addition, we are developing the Small Unmanned Ground Vehicle reconnaissance robot for the U.S. Army’s transformational Future Combat Systems, or FCS, program. We sell our robots to consumers through a variety of distribution channels, including chain stores and other national retailers, and our on-line store, and to the U.S. military and other government agencies worldwide. Since our founding by roboticists who performed research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, we have accumulated expertise in all the disciplines necessary to build durable, high-performance and cost-effective robots through the close integration of software, electronics and hardware. Our core technologies serve as reusable building blocks that we adapt and expand to develop next generation and new products, reducing the time, cost and risk of product development. For example, our proprietary AWARE Robot Intelligence Systems enable the behavioral control of robots. Our AWARE systems allow our Roomba floor vacuuming robot to clean an entire floor while avoiding obstacles and not falling down stairs, and also allow our PackBot robots to accomplish complex missions such as waypoint navigation and real-time obstacle avoidance. Our significant expertise in robot design and engineering, combined with our management team’s experience in military and consumer markets, positions us to capitalize on the growth we expect in the market for robot-based products. We believe that the sophisticated technologies in our existing consumer and military applications are adaptable to a broad array of markets such as law enforcement, homeland security, commercial cleaning, elder care, oil services, home automation, landscaping, agriculture, construction and other vertical markets. Our strategy is to maintain a leadership position in pursuing new applications for robot solutions by leveraging our ability to innovate, to bring new products to market quickly, to reduce costs through design and outsourcing capabilities, and to commercialize the results of our research, much of which is government funded. Over the past five years, we sold more than 3 million of our home care robots. We also sold during that time more than 1,200 of our PackBot tactical military robots, most of which have been sold to the U.S. military and deployed on missions in Afghanistan and Iraq. 3 Table of Contents Strategy Our objective is to rapidly invent, design, market and support innovative robots that will expand our leadership globally in our existing and newly addressable markets. Key elements of our strategy to achieve this objective include: Deliver Great Products and Continue to Expand Our Existing Markets. Our success is built upon our ability to deliver a broad range of innovative products rapidly at economical price points and to offer a broad product line to our customers. Within the consumer market today we offer floor cleaning products for various surfaces at multiple price points, a gutter cleaning product, a pool cleaning product, and a number of product accessories. We are extending our military robot offerings from small, unmanned ground vehicles (such as our PackBot line of robots) to full-scale autonomous vehicles such as R-Gator. In addition, we intend to leverage our increasing installed base to expand our revenues from recurring sales of consumables, services and support. Innovate to Penetrate New Markets. Our goal is to develop innovative robots to perform dull, dirty or dangerous tasks. We develop robots with functionalities that are adaptable for use in a broad range of applications. We intend to target new markets, such as law enforcement, homeland security, commercial cleaning, elderly care, oil services, home automation, landscaping, agriculture and construction, where robots can create high value and can provide a better way to complete complex tasks. Leverage Research and Development Across Different Products and Markets. We leverage our research and development across all of our products and markets. For example, we use technological expertise developed through government-funded research and development projects across our other product development efforts. Similarly, expertise developed while designing consumer products is used in designing products for government and industrial applications. This strategy helps us in avoiding the need to start each robot project from scratch, developing robots in a cost-effective manner and minimizing time to market. Continue to Strengthen Our Brand. We intend to continue to enhance our brand image and corporate identity. The iRobot brand is designed to communicate innovation, reliability, safety and value. Our robots’ performance and uniqueness have enabled us to obtain strong word-of-mouth and extensive press coverage leading to increasing brand awareness, brand personality and momentum. We intend to continue to invest in our marketing programs to strengthen our brand recognition and reinforce our message of innovation, reliability, safety and value. Continue to Invest Aggressively in Our Business and Our People. We believe the best path to maximizing long-term profit is to continue to invest significant resources in our business and our people over the next several years. We plan to invest in research and development and sales distribution channels to extend and expand our market. We intend to also continue to hire top talent and invest in our people through training and on-the-job experience. We believe this aggressive reinvestment in our business and our people will help us maintain our market leadership. Complement Core Competencies with Strategic Alliances. Our core competencies are the design, development and marketing of robots. We rely on strategic alliances to provide complementary competencies that we integrate into our products and to enhance market access. For example, our alliance with The Boeing Company allows us to accelerate product development of the SUGV, through extensive use of Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) components, our alliance with Advanced Scientific Concepts, Inc. (ASC) allows us to integrate LADAR technology for navigation and mapping applications into our autonomous vehicles, our alliance with TASER International, Inc. allows us to integrate TASER electronic control devices built on our PackBot robot platforms, our alliance with Deere & Company allows us to integrate our robot controls, navigation and obstacle avoidance systems with rugged vehicles manufactured by Deere & Company, our alliance with The Clorox Company, through which Clorox manufactures cleaning fluid, allows us to integrate world-class cleaning technology and know-how into our Scooba floor washing robot. We outsource other non-core activities, such as manufacturing and back-office functions, which helps us focus our resources on our core competencies. Develop a Community of Third-Party Developers Around Our Platforms. We have developed products around which communities of third-party developers can create related accessories, software and complementary products. We intend to foster this community by making our products into extensible platforms with open interfaces 4 Table of Contents designed to carry payloads. For example, our robots are designed to allow third-party designers to add sensors and other functionalities, such as acoustic sniper detection and web-based control. Technology We are focused on behavior-based, artificially-intelligent systems developed to meet customer requirements in multiple market segments. In contrast to robotic manufacturing equipment or entertainment systems that are designed to repeat actions in specific, known environments, our systems are designed to complete missions in complex and dynamic real-world environments. Our robots rely on the interplay among behavior-based artificially intelligent systems, real-world dynamic sensors, user-friendly interfaces and tightly-integrated, electromechanical designs to accomplish their missions efficiently. AWARE Robot Intelligence Systems. Our proprietary AWARE Robot Intelligence Systems are code bases that enable the behavioral control of robots. Moreover, the AWARE systems include modules that control behaviors, sensor fusion, power management and communication. Our AWARE systems allow our Roomba floor vacuuming robot and our Scooba floor washing robot to clean an entire floor while avoiding obstacles and not falling down stairs, and also allow our PackBot robots and our unmanned ground vehicles to accomplish complex missions such as waypoint navigation and real-time obstacle avoidance. Real-World, Dynamic Sensing. The degree of intelligence that our robots display is directly attributable to their ability to perceive — or sense — the world around them. Using specialized hardware and signal processing, iRobot has developed sensors that fit particular cost-performance criteria. In other cases, we use off-the-shelf sensing hardware, such as laser scanners, cameras and optical sensors. We have recently entered into an agreement with Advanced Scientifics Concepts, Inc. for exclusive rights to use its patented 3D Flash Laser Radar, or LADAR, technology for unmanned ground vehicles and robots. This Flash LADAR technology is a next-generation solid state sensor that marks an important advancement for navigation and mapping applications for all autonomous vehicles. Additionally, we have an agreement with ICx Technologies to integrate its explosive-detecting technology into our Packbot platform. The payload, called the ICx Fido for iRobot PackBot 500, can detect explosive vapors emanating from Improvised Explosive Devices (IED’s). User-Friendly Interfaces. Our robots require that users interact and instruct our robots in intuitive ways without extensive end-user set-up, installation, training or instruction. For example, our Roomba robots require only one button to have the robot begin its mission, determine the size of the room to be cleaned, thoroughly clean the room and return to its re-charger, right out of the box without any pre-programmed knowledge of the user’s home. Similarly, our PackBot robots use intuitive controllers, interoperable between systems, that integrate high-level supervisory commands from the user into the behaviors of the robot. Tightly-Integrated, Electromechanical Design. Our products rely on our ability to build inherently robust integrated electrical and mechanical components into required form factors. For instance, the computer that powers the PackBot tactical military robot must withstand being dropped from more than ten feet onto concrete. Such high performance specifications require tight design integration. Combining these four components, we have created proprietary, reusable building blocks of robotics capabilities, including mobility platforms, manipulators, navigation and control algorithms and user interfaces. Our technology building blocks typically allow us to take a known platform and modify it for a new mission instead of starting from scratch for each application. We believe this allows us to design and develop innovative robots cost-effectively. Products and Development Contracts We design and sell robots for the consumer and government and industrial markets. 5 Table of Contents Consumer Products We sell various products that are designed for use in and around the home. Our current consumer products are focused on both indoor and outdoor cleaning applications. We believe our consumer products provide value to our customers by delivering better cleaning solutions at an affordable price and by freeing people from repetitive home cleaning tasks. Home Floor Cleaning Robots. Over the past five years, we sold more than 3 million home floor cleaning robots. We currently offer multiple Roomba floor vacuuming robots and Scooba floor washing robots with varying price points and performance characteristics. Our Roomba robot’s compact disc shape allows it to clean under beds and other furniture, resulting in cleaner floors since the Roomba can access more of the floor than standard upright vacuum cleaners. Roomba is programmed to keep operating until the floor is clean. In addition, Roomba eliminates the need to push a vacuum — it cleans automatically upon the push of a button. All of our current Roomba floor vacuuming robots include the following features: • the ability to sense a “cliff” or drop-off point and to react by reversing course automatically; • a non-marring bumper to clean up to obstacles without damaging furniture or walls; • a self adjusting cleaning head; • a wide cleaning path to clean an entire room on a single battery charge; • a spinning side brush to clean along surface edges; • dirt-sensing, which allows the Roomba robot to detect dirtier areas in the home and respond by increasing and extending the intensity of its cleaning efforts in that concentrated space; and • improved cleaning and maintenance operations, enhancing the user friendliness of the Roomba robot. Select Roomba models also feature automatic self-docking, which enables the robot to return to its Home Base for battery recharging when its battery runs low or it has cleaned the room, and an advanced power system that charges in approximately three hours. These Roombas can clean, on average, three rooms on a single charge. In 2007, we introduced our new Roomba 500 series, which features more powerful and efficient vacuuming performance. These robots can free themselves from almost any household jam, minimizing the need to prep rooms before Roomba begins cleaning. Using wireless technology, the robots now know when they have finished cleaning one room and then move on to the next. The Roomba 500 series includes the following new features: • a solid, heavy-duty design featuring modular components for enhanced durability and easy servicing; • anti-tangle technology so Roomba can extract itself from tassels and cord tangles; • our proprietary built-in, light-touch intelligent sensing system that can detect when Roomba is approaching a wall or obstacle and automatically slow the robot for a gentler impact and quieter operation; • one-button activation, simply press “clean” and go; • a built-in voice tutorial for new users that demonstrates Roomba’s features right out of the box; • a new mobility platform that allows Roomba to travel on thicker carpets, climb higher thresholds, and transition easily between floor surfaces; • new dustbin holds significantly more debris; and • colorful faceplates in white, steel blue, champagne, burnt orange, silver, charcoal, and chestnut so people can personalize Roomba to match their style. 6 Table of Contents The Roomba 530 includes all of these features and cleans up to three standard rooms before returning to its Home Base to recharge. Roomba 530 also comes with two standard Virtual Walls that confine the robot to certain areas using an infrared beam. The suggested retail price for the Roomba 530 is $299. The iRobot Roomba 560 includes Virtual Wall Lighthouses. These mini-towers — just 4.25 inches tall by 3.5 inches wide — help orient Roomba via radio frequency communications and guide Roomba systematically through the home. The Virtual Wall Lighthouses confine the Roomba to one room until that room is thoroughly cleaned, and then guide Roomba into the next room. Once Roomba 560 is finished cleaning, or when its battery is running low, the Virtual Wall Lighthouses direct the robot to its Home Base to dock and recharge. Roomba 560 also includes an on-board scheduling function, so it can be programmed to automatically clean up to seven days a week, even when owners are away. The suggested retail price for the Roomba 560 is $349. Scooba, our second major consumer product line, is the first floor washing robot available for home use. Our Scooba robot utilizes the expertise gained from years of Roomba development to create a robot that scrubs your floor. Our Scooba robot’s innovative cleaning process allows the robot to simultaneously sweep, wash, scrub and dry hard floors, all at the touch of a button. Unlike a conventional mop that spreads dirty water on the floor, Scooba will apply only fresh water and cleaning solution to the floor from a clean tank. Scooba will clean wet spills in addition to dirt and grime, and it is safe for use on all sealed, hard floor surfaces, including wood and tile. Scooba has the ability to navigate around the room using a light-touch bumper and is smart enough to avoid carpets. Scooba features an advanced diagnostic system to provide the user with important maintenance feedback and improve user experience and product life. The suggested retail price for the Scooba robots range from $249 to $499. With The Clorox Company, we have developed a specially-engineered cleaning solution for use with the Scooba floor washing robot. We began collaborating with The Clorox Company in 2004 to create a cleaning solution that, when combined with the Scooba, would clean hard floor surfaces and assist in the mobility of the robot. Pool Cleaning Robots In 2007, we introduced our Verro Pool Cleaning Robot, which is used to clean a standard size pool in about an hour while removing debris as small as two microns from the pool floor, walls and stairs. Verro is brought to market under the iRobot brand through a relationship with the Aqua Products Group companies including AquaJet LLC and Aquatron, Inc., which developed the pool-cleaning robots. There are two models available with suggested retail prices of $799 and $1,199, respectively. Gutter Cleaning Robots In 2007, we introduced our Looj Gutter Cleaning Robot, which is designed to simplify the difficult and dangerous job of gutter cleaning. The Looj cleans an entire stretch of gutter from one location, reducing the number of times a ladder must be repositioned and climbed during gutter cleaning. The 2.25-inch high Looj drives easily under gutter straps propelled by a three-stage auger that dislodges and sweeps out dirt, leaves and other debris that can cause costly water damage, overspills and ice dams. The Looj also features a detachable handle that doubles as a wireless remote control, providing full control of the robot while cleaning. The suggested retail price for the Looj ranges from $99 to $129. Virtual Visiting Robot In 2007, we announced our ConnectR Virtual Visiting Robot to be released at a future date. The ConnectR marks our entry into a new category of virtual communication and interaction, a significant step beyond our traditional universe of cleaning and maintenance. ConnectR is a new kind of communications system designed for today’s busy families and individuals seeking greater connection and involvement with kids, grandchildren, friends and pets. Product development is ongoing and the ConnectR is not yet available to the consumer market. 7 Table of Contents Programmable Robot In 2007, we introduced the Create Programmable Robot, which is a fully assembled programmable robot. The Create has 10 built in demos and 32 sensors that allow users to experiment with robotics. An open cargo bay allows the user to add their own grippers, wireless connections, computers or other hardware. The Create is based on the iRobot Roomba technology and is compatible with Roomba’s re-chargeable batteries, remote control and other accessories. The suggested retail price for the Create ranges from $129 to $299. Government and Industrial Products Our current government and industrial product offerings include our PackBot and PackBot 510 line of small, unmanned ground robots and the prototype R-Gator unmanned ground vehicle. Our government and industrial robots are designed for high-performance, durability and ease of use. Our PackBot family of robots is based on a common platform and is currently priced from approximately $50,000 to $185,000 per unit. As of December 2007, more than 1,200 PackBot robots had been delivered worldwide. In 2007 we brought to market the next generation PackBot, the PackBot 510. The PackBot 510 was designed specifically to address evolving end-user requirements for a stronger, faster and easier-to-use robot. Thirty percent faster than its predecessor, the robot features greater top-end speed to reduce deployment time. It also features increased torque, resulting in greater load pull/load capacity. Its rounded cleats reduce detracking and optical fiber entanglement. The robot’s new hand controller is modeled after video-game controllers, making PackBot 510 easier to use, and resulting in less training time and more rapid operations in the field. The PackBot 510 currently is offered in 2 main kit configurations: iRobot PackBot 510 with EOD Kit. This advanced robot quickly adapts to different Improvised Explosive Devises or IEDs, conventional ordnance and SWAT missions — keeping EOD personnel at safe stand-off distances. It features an enhanced chassis, improved manipulator, simplified hand controller and four cameras, making it faster, stronger and easier to-use. Relative to the standard PackBot EOD, the more powerful manipulator doubles lifting, carrying and manipulation capacity. iRobot PackBot 510 with FasTac Kit. This robot investigates suspicious objects and identifies roadside bombs and other IEDs, as well as unexploded ordnance, while keeping troops at safe standoff distances. As a lighter-weight alternative to other EOD robots, PackBot 510 with FasTac Kit is practical for infantry use. We also offer more than 45 accessories of the PackBot that constitute additional capabilities for the robot, expanding its range and scope of missions. We continue to sell and support our original PackBot line. Popular configurations include those listed below. iRobot PackBot Scout. PackBot Scout is a portable, tactical, mobile robot designed for military operations in urban terrain and other 21st century battle missions. This lightweight, rugged robot can be hand-carried and deployed by a single soldier. Deployed in Afghanistan and Iraq for the past several years, PackBot Scout is designed to search dangerous or inaccessible areas, providing soldiers with a safe first look so they know what to expect and how to respond. Only 40 lbs (18 kg) fully loaded, PackBot Scout offers five open payload bays for significant upgrade potential. The PackBot Scout is our most rugged PackBot configuration, able to sustain a 10-foot drop onto concrete and still function properly. iRobot PackBot Explorer. PackBot Explorer is designed for performing real-time targeting and battle damage assessment in dangerous or inaccessible areas or other urban warfare scenarios. PackBot Explorer can enter the danger zone before responders are exposed to risk and function as the incident commander’s remote information gatherer. PackBot Explorer can help assess the situation, ensure the appropriate response, and reduce risk. iRobot PackBot EOD. PackBot EOD is a rugged, lightweight robot designed to conduct explosive ordnance disposal, hazardous materials, search-and-surveillance and other vital law enforcement tasks for bomb squads, SWAT teams, military units and other authorities. PackBot EOD can handle a full range of improvised explosive devices and conventional ordnance disposal challenges. Our PackBot EOD robot’s lightweight and rugged OmniReach Manipulator System can extend up to six feet to safely disrupt improvised explosive devices, military ordnance, land mines and other incendiary devices. 8 Table of Contents iRobot PackBot with ICx Fido Explosives Detection Kit. This explosives-sniffing robot screens packages and other potentially dangerous items while the operator remains at a safe distance. With all-terrain capability that enables it to go virtually anywhere, the robot places ultra-sensitive detectors close to suspicious items and determines within seconds if they are hazardous or harmless. The iRobot PackBot with ICx Fido Explosives Detection Kit is an advanced security solution that also pinpoints people involved in the construction and deployment of explosive devices. R-Gator Unmanned Ground Vehicle. The R-Gator combines the field-proven technologies of the Deere & Company M-Gator and our PackBot with state-of-the-art robot controls, navigation and obstacle detection technologies jointly developed for R-Gator’s critical missions. The iRobot-John Deere R-Gator is a versatile and rugged platform capable of taking on a wide variety of critical unmanned missions, such as a perimeter guard, unmanned scout, “point man,” supply carrier and more. In conjunction with Deere & Company, we have made available a limited number of R-Gator prototypes for evaluation by a number of potential government customers. The net future proceeds of R-Gator sales, if any, will be shared between us and Deere & Company, subject to recoupment of each party’s respective contribution to the project. Contract Research and Development Projects We are involved in several contract development projects with various U.S. governmental agencies and departments. The durations of these projects range from a few months to several years. These projects are usually funded as either cost-plus arrangements, firm fixed price, or time and materials contracts. In a cost-plus contract, we are allowed to recover our actual costs plus a fixed fee. The total price on a cost-plus contract is based primarily on allowable costs incurred, but generally is subject to a maximum contract funding limit. Under a firm fixed price contract, we receive a fixed amount upon satisfying contractually defined deliverables. On our time and materials contracts, we recover a specific amount per hour worked based on a bill rate schedule, plus the cost of direct materials, subcontracts, and other non-labor costs, including an agreed-upon mark-up. A time and materials contract may provide for a not-to-exceed price ceiling, as well as the potential that we will absorb any cost overrun. Government funding is provided to further the development of robot technologies to solve various in-field challenges and with the expectation that if the projects result in the development of technically viable prototypes, then the government will purchase multiple production units for future use in the field. The government funding that we receive allows us to accelerate the development of multiple technologies. While the U.S. government retains certain rights to military projects that it has funded, such as the right to use inventions and disclose technical data relating to those projects without constraining the recipient’s use of that data, we retain ownership of patents and know-how and are generally free to develop other commercial products, including consumer and industrial products, utilizing the technologies developed during these projects. The rights which the government retains, however, may allow it to provide use of patent rights and know-how to others, and some of the know-how might be used by these third parties for their own development of consumer and industrial products. The contract development projects that we are currently undertaking include, but are not limited to: Small Unmanned Ground Vehicle (SUGV) and Centralized Controller Device (CCD). Future Combat Systems (FCS) is a major program intended to transform the U.S. Army to be strategically responsive and dominant at every point on the spectrum of operations, through real-time network centric communications and systems of a family of manned vehicles and unmanned platforms by the next decade. The FCS program combines advanced technologies, organizations, people and processes with concepts to create new sources of military power that are more responsive, deployable, agile, versatile, lethal, survivable and sustainable. The FCS system of systems is designed to provide increased strategic responsiveness, adaptive modular organizations, and units of action with three to seven days of self-sustainment. Our specific role in the FCS program is to design and develop the SUGV, which is intended to be the “soldier’s robot.” The SUGV is expected to be a light-weight, man-portable robot that will support reconnaissance, remote sensing and urban warfare. In addition, we have been selected by Lockheed Martin Corporation, the provider of the CCD for the FCS program, to be a key supplier of design and development for the CCD’s controls and display through its estimated delivery in 2015. The CCD is a handheld device that will allow an individual soldier to remotely control or query the systems in an FCS brigade — from a Class I 9 Table of Contents Unmanned Aerial Vehicle to an unmanned ground system. Our involvement in the FCS program has enabled us to improve various management and control systems and enhance our engineering capabilities to achieve the Software Executive Institute’s Configuration Maturity Model certification Level III. The program has also funded the development of earned value measurement and advanced modeling and simulation. Warrior (formerly named NEOMover). Warrior is a 250-pound tracked vehicle, capable of transporting up to 150 pounds of payload, with a small footprint and extreme mobility. This effort is sponsored by the Technical Support Working Group, or TSWG. The Warrior design incorporates a number of concepts present in other iRobot remote controlled vehicles and demonstrates many of the advantages that modular payloads and common interfaces can bring to the explosive ordnance disposal community. There are two goals of this effort. The first is to advance the maturity levels of the Warrior hardware, firmware and software, and to enhance environmental ruggedness to a level suitable for small quantity manufacturing and evaluation of Warrior platforms in field trials. The second is to maintain a level of architectural openness for future component integration with other TSWG common architecture components to enable continued future development. Sentinel. Sentinel is an applied research project funded by the U.S. Army Tank — Automation and Armaments Command, or TACOM. Unmanned Ground Vehicles, or UGVs, have taken an increasingly prominent role in the modern battlespace, whether providing intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, or performing vital force protection functions such as searching for vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices. In order for these unmanned systems to realize their full potential as a force multiplier, they must grow beyond their one-operator-per-vehicle command and control metaphors. Sentinel is aimed at developing intuitive user interface technologies and UGV autonomy allowing a single human operator to effectively control and coordinate multiple semi-autonomous UGVs. UGV/UAV Collaborative Engagement. In coordination with researchers from Carnegie Mellon University, the goal of this U.S. Army Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center (ARDEC)-funded project is to develop a collaborative engagement tool for mission planning and task allocation for the command and control of multiple unmanned air and ground vehicles. The primary project objective of this effort is to design an automated software tool that facilitates the dynamic collaboration of unmanned air and ground vehicles to enable effective joint operations. This capability will be demonstrated in a mission scenario using a UAV to find, identify, and locate a target of interest on the ground, for example a suspicious vehicle, and then automatically engaging a UGV to navigate to the designated target to provide precise location and ground-based tracking. We are engaged in a number of other research programs funded by the U.S. Army Research, Development & Engineering Center, or ARDEC, TACOM, and several other U.S. governmental agencies. Strategic Alliances Our strategic alliances are an important part of our product development and distribution strategies. We rely on strategic alliances to provide technology, complementary product offerings and increased and quicker access to markets. We seek to form relationships with those entities that can provide best-in-class technology or complementary market advantages for establishing iRobot technology in new market segments. Among the strategic alliances we have established with commercial entities are the following: The Boeing Company. We have entered into a strategic business agreement with The Boeing Company to develop and market a commercial version of the SUGV that is being developed under the Army’s FCS program. This collaboration will accelerate product development, though extensive use of Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) components, to produce a commercial version of the SUGV robots several years earlier than previously planned for use by our U.S. military, domestic and international customers. In addition to cooperative development, we will be working jointly with The Boeing Company, leveraging its extensive, domestic and international marketing network, to market the new commercial SUGV product. Advanced Scientific Concepts, Inc. (ASC). We have entered into an agreement, in fiscal 2007, for exclusive rights to use ASC’s patented 3D Flash Laser Radar, or LADAR, technology for unmanned ground vehicles in exchange for future commitments to purchase units. ASC’s patented Flash LADAR technology is a 10 Table of Contents next-generation solid state sensor that marks an important advancement for navigation and mapping applications for all autonomous vehicles. Flash LADAR sensors have no moving parts and can be compact, light and rugged, making them highly suitable for military and industrial uses. We will assist ASC in designing versions of its LADAR technology for use on our military robots ranging from the SUGV to Intelligent Vehicles such as R-Gator. We expect to demonstrate the technology to military customers starting in 2008, with delivery of a product expected in 2009. TASER International, Inc. We have entered into a strategic business agreement, in fiscal 2007, to develop new robots that can remotely engage, incapacitate and control dangerous suspects with integrated TASER electronic control devices, built on our PackBot robot platforms. Deere & Company. We have a strategic business agreement with the commercial and consumer equipment division of Deere & Company to explore multiple projects involving technology and product development and commercialization efforts. We have collaborated with Deere & Company on the development of the R-Gator unmanned ground vehicle. Deere & Company has provided funded research and development, access to its M-Gator military utility vehicle platform and certain other technology, and we have provided robot technologies. Technology independently developed by either Deere & Company or us will be owned by the developing party. We and Deere & Company have produced a limited number of R-Gator prototypes for evaluation by potential customers. The Clorox Company. We have entered into a joint development and license agreement with The Clorox Company, whereby Clorox is the exclusive provider of the cleaning solution for the Scooba floor washing robot. Our alliance with The Clorox Company allows us to integrate their cleaning technology and know-how into our floor washing robot and improves consumer perception and awareness of our brand by association and through joint marketing. Our strategy of working closely with third parties extends to the design of our products. By offering extensible platforms designed to carry payloads, we have designed and manufactured our products to leverage the work of those individuals and organizations that offer specialized technological expertise. The PackBot, the Roomba and the Scooba robots are designed with open interfaces that allow third-party designers to add sensors or other functionality to our robots. Sales and Distribution Channels We sell our products through distinct sales channels to the consumer and government and industrial markets. Home Robots We sell our consumer products through a network of national retailers. In 2007, this network consisted of more than 30 retailers, representing over 7,000 stores in the United States, each of which sold some combination of these products. We also offer our products through the iRobot on-line store on our website. Internationally, our products are sold in over 40 countries, primarily through in-country distributors who resell to retail stores in their respective countries. We have a philosophy to choose supportive channel partners, and we have grown, and intend to continue to selectively grow our retail network globally and by product line. We expanded to more than 30 retailers in 2007 from 20 retailers in 2006. Certain smaller domestic retail operations are supported by distributors to whom we sell product directly. The table below represents the breakdown of our home robots product revenue for the fiscal years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006. Fiscal Year Ended December 29, December 30, Channel 2007 2006 Domestic 61.6 % 72.7 % International 15.0 11.3 Direct 23.4 16.0 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 11 Table of Contents Although our retail network is our primary distribution channel for our consumer products, the continued investment in our direct-to-consumer offerings through the iRobot on-line store has resulted in this direct channel increasing to 23.4% of home robots division revenue in fiscal 2007 compared to 16.0% in fiscal 2006. We have established valuable databases and customer lists that allow us to target directly those consumers most likely to purchase a new robot or upgrade. We believe we maintain a close connection with our customers in each of our markets to provide an enhanced position from which to improve our distribution and product offerings. In the United States, we maintain an in-house sales and product management team of 14 employees, and we have an international sales force of 3 employees. Outside of the United States and Canada, we sell our consumer products through distributors. Our consumer distribution strategy is intended to increase our global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction. Government and Industrial We sell our government and industrial products directly to end users and indirectly through prime contractors and distributors. While the majority of government and industrial products have been sold to date to various operations within the U.S. federal government, we also sell to state and local as well as to international government organizations. Our military products are sold overseas in compliance with the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. We have sold our products to the governments of various countries in the past several years, including the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Sweden, Norway, Israel, Australia, Republic of Korea, Singapore and others. Customers for our government products, and research & development contracts for the year ended December 29, 2007, include: Robot Product Customers Research and Development Contracts • U.S. Army • U.S. Army Future Combat Systems (FCS) Program • U.S. Marine Corp • U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) • U.S. Army and Marine Corp Robotic Systems Joint Program Office • U.S. Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command (SPAWAR) • U.S. Navy EOD Technical Division (Joint Services Explosive Ordnance Disposal Procurement Agency) • U.S. Army Tank-Automotive and Armaments Command (TACOM) • U.S. Air Force • Technical Support Working Group (TSWG) • Domestic Police and First Responders • U.S. Army Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center (ARDEC) • Foreign governments, including the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Sweden, Norway, • National Center for Defense Robotics (NCDR) Israel, Australia, Republic of Korea, Singapore • Office of Naval Research (ONR) Our government products are sold by a team of 12 government sales specialists with significant experience in selling to government and defense agencies. All of these individuals have years of experience selling military products to government procurement offices, both in the United States and internationally. We maintain a single person direct sales and support presence in Europe. Customer Service and Support We also invest in our ongoing customer service and support. Consumer customer service representatives, the majority of whom are employees of outsourced service organizations, are extensively trained on the technical intricacies of our consumer products. Government and industrial customer representatives are usually former military personnel who are experienced in logistical and technical support requirements for military operations. 12 Table of Contents Marketing and Brand We market our home robots in the United States to end-user customers directly through our sales and product management team of 14 employees. We also market our consumer products in the United States through our retail network of more than 30 national retailers and internationally through in-country distributors and our international sales team of 3 employees. We market our government and industrial products directly through our team of 12 government sales specialists to end users and indirectly through prime contractors. We also market our product offerings through the iRobot website. Our marketing strategy is to increase our brand awareness and associate the iRobot brand with innovation, reliability, safety and value. Our sales and marketing expenses represented 18.0% of our total revenue in both 2007 and 2006. We believe that we have built a trusted, recognized brand by providing high-quality robots. We believe that customer word-of-mouth has been a significant driver of our brand’s success to date, which can work very well for products that inspire a high level of user loyalty because users are likely to share their positive experiences. Our grass-roots marketing efforts focus on feeding this word-of-mouth momentum and we use public relations as well as advertising to promote our products. Our innovative robots and public relations campaigns have generated extensive press coverage. In addition, iRobot and our consumer robots have won several awards and our inclusion as the only small business among the first-tier partners on the FCS program has greatly enhanced our brand and awareness among government and industrial customers. Through these efforts, we have been able to build our brand, and we expect that our reputation for innovative products and customer support will continue to play a significant role in our growth and success. We expect to accelerate our investment in national advertising, consumer and industry trade shows, direct marketing and public relations to further build brand awareness. We believe that our significant in-house experience designing direct marketing campaigns and promotional materials, combined with our media-targeting expertise, gives us a significant competitive advantage. Our website is also playing an increasing role in supporting brand awareness, addressing customer questions and serving as a showcase for our products. Our home robots and accessories are also sold through our online store. In 2007, the online store was the single largest outlet of our home robots division products. Manufacturing Our core competencies are the design, development and marketing of robots. Our manufacturing strategy is to outsource non-core activities, such as the production of our robots, to third-party entities skilled in manufacturing. By relying on the outsourced manufacture of both our consumer and military robots, we can focus our engineering expertise on the design of robots. Using our engineering team, we believe that we can rapidly prototype design concepts and products to achieve optimal value, produce products at lower cost points and optimize our designs for manufacturing requirements, size and functionality. Manufacturing a new product requires a close relationship between our product designers and the manufacturing organizations. Using multiple engineering techniques, our products are introduced to the selected production facility at an early-development stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before tooling is finalized and mass production begins. As a result, we believe that we can significantly reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries, with improved quality and yields. We outsource the manufacturing of our consumer products to two contract manufacturers, Jetta Company Limited and Kin Yat Industrial Co. Ltd., each of which manufactures our consumer products at a single plant in China. Jetta Company Limited has been manufacturing products since 1977 and brings substantial experience to our production requirements. Jetta Company Limited has several manufacturing locations and recently expanded one of its facilities to increase capacity for the production of our Roomba 400 series and Scooba robots. Kin Yat Industrial Co. Ltd. has been in business since 1981, has several manufacturing locations in China, and began manufacturing our Roomba 500 series in 2007. Combined with our own engineering operations in India and Hong Kong, this 13 Table of Contents allows us to design our products in both the United States and India, use our own engineers in the United States, India and Hong Kong as technical interfaces with the facilities in China, and benefit from the experience of Jetta Company Limited, Kin Yat Industrial Co. Ltd. and their engineers. Our government and industrial products are manufactured by Gem City Engineering Corporation at one plant in Dayton, Ohio. Gem City Engineering Corporation’s location is particularly important as military products supplied to the U.S. government must have the majority of their content manufactured in the United States. Gem City Engineering Corporation has multiple facilities and relies on other subcontractors for certain component manufacturing capabilities. Gem City Engineering Corporation has been in the business of manufacturing primarily metal-tooled products since 1936, and has produced numerous products for military contractors. We believe that its engineers are skilled in the production of products meeting military specifications, preparing final products for military inspection and conducting quality reviews. Research and Development We believe that our future success depends upon our ability to continue to develop new products and product accessories, and enhancements to and applications for our existing products. For the years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, our research and development expenses were $17.1 million, $17.0 million and $11.6 million, respectively. In addition to our internal research and development activities, for the years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, we have incurred research and development expenses under funded development arrangements with governments and industrial third parties of $18.8 million, $15.6 million and $12.5 million, respectively. Of our total research and development spending in 2007 and 2006, approximately 37.9% and 36.4%, respectively was funded by government-sponsored research and development contracts. We intend to continue our investment in research and development to respond to and anticipate customer needs, and to enable us to introduce new products over the next few years that will continue to address our existing market sectors. Team Organization Our research and development is conducted by small teams dedicated to particular projects, examples of which include the Roomba team, Scooba team, Warrior team and PackBot team. In connection with our FCS SUGV program involving more than 50 employees, we have instituted a formal integrated product team structure consisting of integrated System of Systems, Integrated Logistical Support, Program Operations and Business Operations teams to work together to deliver a platform that integrates with the FCS system of systems. Global Engineering Our domestic research and development efforts are primarily located at our headquarters in Burlington, Massachusetts, and our special projects engineering office in San Luis Obispo, California. In addition, we have an engineering design center in India and a product development team working out of Hong Kong. Our global engineering development process for consumer products allows us to leverage the time differences between our United States operations and our teams in Asia resulting in a fast, low cost global design and manufacturing cycle. The first stage of the cycle takes place in both our Burlington, Massachusetts and Mysore, India offices where we focus on product definition, prototyping, market research and financial analysis. We then create a design that is manufacturable, including complete modeling and simulation and initial validation of the product/market concept. After the initial development of the prototypes, we leverage the team in Hong Kong for the production stage of the cycle. During this stage, engineers on two continents work on refining the designs, preparing the product for manufacturing and working through the issues for pilot production, including detailed regression testing. The product is then turned over to the contract manufacturer for volume production. 14 Table of Contents Spiral Development One of the methods we use to develop military products is a “spiral development” process to get field tested equipment to the troops more quickly. After we develop a new product or product upgrade that will fulfill the desired requirements of the user, the product is tested with soldiers in the field. The user provides performance feedback on the product to the in-field engineer. Revisions are made quickly to retest in the field. This method has allowed our research and development team to not only make revisions on existing products quickly and efficiently, but also capture feedback for future upgrades and innovations to meet user needs. Periodically we send engineers in the field with our PackBot tactical military robots to solicit feedback from users which is often times incorporated into future product development and product enhancements. We intend to solicit similar user feedback in the field for the prototype intelligent vehicles. Leveraged Model Our research and development efforts for our next-generation products are supported by a variety of sources. Our next-generation military products are predominately supported by U.S. governmental research organizations such as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA, U.S. Space and Warfare Command, or SPAWAR, Technical Support Working Group, or TSWG, U.S. Army Tank-Automotive and Armaments Command, or TACOM, U.S. Army Armament Research, Development and Engineering Center, or ARDEC, and the U.S. Army’s FCS program. While the U.S. government retains certain rights in the research projects that it has funded, we retain ownership of patents and know-how and are generally free to develop other commercial products, including consumer and industrial products, utilizing the technologies developed during these projects. Similarly, expertise developed while designing consumer products is used in designing products for government and industrial applications. We also work with strategic collaborators to develop industry-specific technologies. Moreover, we continue to reinvest in advanced research and development projects to maintain our technical capability and to enhance our product offerings. Competition The market for robots is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs and expectations and the likely increased introduction of new products. We believe that a number of established companies have developed or are developing robots that will compete directly with our product offerings, and many of our competitors have significantly more financial and other resources than we possess. Our current principal competitors include: • developers of robot floor care products such as AB Electrolux, Alfred Kärcher GmbH & Co., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., LG Electronics Inc., Infinuvo/Metapo, Inc, Matsutek Enterprises Co Ltd., Microrobot CO., Ltd., ACE ROBOT Co., Ltd. and Yujin Robotic Co. Ltd. • developers of small unmanned ground vehicles such as Foster-Miller, Inc. — a wholly owned subsidiary of QinetiQ North America, Inc., Allen-Vanguard Corporation, and Remotec — a division of Northrop Grumman Corporation; and • established government contractors working on unmanned systems such as Lockheed Martin Corporation, BAE Systems, Inc. and General Dynamics Corporation. While we believe many of our customers purchase our Roomba floor vacuuming robots and Scooba floor washing robots as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, their traditional vacuum cleaners and wet floor cleaning methods, we do compete in some cases with providers of traditional cleaning products. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market for robots include product features, performance for the intended mission, cost of purchase, total cost of system operation, including maintenance and support, ease of use, integration with existing equipment, quality, reliability, customer support, brand and reputation. Our ability to remain competitive will depend to a great extent upon our ongoing performance in the areas of product development and customer support. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete 15 Table of Contents favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering the markets in which we provide products. Intellectual Property We believe that our continued success depends in large part on our proprietary technology, the intellectual skills of our employees and the ability of our employees to continue to innovate. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As of December 29, 2007, we held 33 U.S. patents and more than 100 pending U.S. patent applications. Also, we held 11 foreign patents, additional design registrations, and more than 40 pending foreign applications. Our first U.S. patent is set to expire on April 19, 2008. We do not expect the expiration of this patent to adversely affect our intellectual property position. Our other U.S. patents will begin to expire in 2019. We will continue to file and prosecute patent (or design registration, as applicable) applications when and where appropriate to attempt to protect our rights in our proprietary technologies. We also encourage our employees to continue to invent and develop new technologies so as to maintain our competitiveness in the marketplace. It is possible that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may be successfully challenged or invalidated in whole or in part. It is also possible that we may not obtain issued patents for our pending patent applications or other inventions we seek to protect. In that regard, we sometimes permit certain intellectual property to lapse or go abandoned under appropriate circumstances and due to uncertainties inherent in prosecuting patent applications, sometimes patent applications are rejected and we subsequently abandon them. It is also possible that we may not develop proprietary products or technologies in the future that are patentable, or that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will harm or altogether preclude our ability to do business. Our registered U.S. trademarks include iRobot, Roomba, Scooba, iRobot Dirt Dog, Create, PackBot, Home Base and Virtual Wall. Our marks, iRobot, Roomba, Scooba, and certain other trademarks, have also been registered in selected foreign countries. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our competitors may independently develop technology that is similar to ours. Legal protections afford only limited protection for our technology. The laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties have in the past attempted, and may in the future attempt, to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Third parties may also design around our proprietary rights, which may render our protected products less valuable, if the design around is favorably received in the marketplace. In addition, if any of our products or the technology underlying our products is covered by third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, we could be subject to various legal actions. We cannot assure you that our products do not infringe patents held by others or that they will not in the future. We have received in the past communications from third parties relating to technologies used in our Roomba floor vacuuming robots that have alleged infringement of patents or violation of other intellectual property rights. In response to these communications, we have contacted these third parties to convey our good faith belief that we do not infringe the patents in question or otherwise violate those parties’ rights. Although there have been no additional actions or communications with respect to these allegations, we cannot assure you that we will not receive further correspondence from these parties, or not be subject to additional allegations of infringement from others. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, misappropriation, or other claims. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Moreover, any settlement of or adverse judgment resulting from such litigation could require us to obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. Any required licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we attempt to design around the technology at issue or to find another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering applicable software or product solutions, our continued supply of software or product solutions could be disrupted or our introduction of new or enhanced software or products could be significantly delayed. 16 Table of Contents Regulations We are subject to various government regulations, including various U.S. federal government regulations as a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. federal government. Among the most significant U.S. federal government regulations affecting our business are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulations and supplemental agency regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under cost-based government contracts; • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from providing anything of value to a foreign official to help obtain, retain or direct business, or obtain any unfair advantages; • the False Claims Act and the False Statements Act, which, respectively, impose penalties for payments made on the basis of false facts provided to the government, and impose penalties on the basis of false statements, even if they do not result in a payment; and • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. We also need special security clearances to continue working on and advancing certain of our projects with the U.S. federal government. Classified programs generally will require that we comply with various Executive Orders, federal laws and regulations and customer security requirements that may include restrictions on how we develop, store, protect and share information, and may require our employees to obtain government clearances. The nature of the work we do for the federal government may also limit the parties who may invest in or acquire us. Export laws may keep us from providing potential foreign acquirers with a review of the technical data they would be acquiring. In addition, there are special requirements for foreign parties who wish to buy or acquire control or influence over companies that control technology or produce goods in the security interests of the United States. There may need to be a review under the Exon-Florio provisions of the Defense Production Act. Finally, the government may require a prospective foreign owner to establish intermediaries to actually run that part of the company that does classified work, and establishing a subsidiary and its separate operation may make such an acquisition less appealing to such potential acquirers. In addition, the export from the United States of many of our products may require the issuance of a license by the U.S. Department of Commerce under the Export Administration Act, as amended, and its implementing Regulations as kept in force by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977, as amended. Some of our products may require the issuance of a license by the U.S. Department of State under the Arms Export Control Act and its implementing Regulations, which licenses are generally harder to obtain and take longer to obtain than do Export Administration Act licenses. Government Product Backlog Our government product backlog consists of written orders or contracts to purchase our products received from our government customers. Total backlog of product sales to government customers as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 amounted to approximately $26.1 million and $7.5 million, respectively. We do not have long-term contracts with non-government customers, and purchases from our non-government customers generally occur on an order-by-order basis, which can be terminated or modified at any time by these customers. In addition, our funded research and development contracts may be cancelled or delayed at any time without significant, if any, penalty. As a result, we believe that backlog with respect to product sales to our non-government customers and funded research and development is not meaningful. There can be no assurance that any of our backlog will result in revenue. 17 Table of Contents Employees As of December 29, 2007, we had 423 full-time employees located in the United States and abroad, of whom 202 are in research and development, 95 are in operations, 36 are in sales and marketing and 90 are in general and administration. We believe that we have a good relationship with our employees. Available Information We were incorporated in California in August 1990 under the name IS Robotics, Inc. and reincorporated as IS Robotics Corporation in Massachusetts in June 1994. We reincorporated in Delaware as iRobot Corporation in December 2000. We conduct operations and maintain a number of subsidiaries in the United States and abroad, including operations in Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, China and India. We also maintain iRobot Securities Corporation, a Massachusetts securities corporation, to invest our cash balances on a short-term basis. Our website address is www.irobot.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through the investor relations page of our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in an emerging market, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Robots represent a new and emerging market. Accordingly, our business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which demand for consumer robots will increase, if at all. Moreover, there are only a limited number of major programs under which the U.S. federal government is currently funding the development or purchase of military robots. You should consider the challenges, risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies using new and unproven business models in rapidly evolving markets. These challenges include our ability to: • generate sufficient revenue and gross profit to maintain profitability; • acquire and maintain market share in our consumer and military markets; • manage growth in our operations; • attract and retain customers of our consumer robots; • develop and renew government contracts for our military robots; • attract and retain additional engineers and other highly-qualified personnel; • adapt to new or changing policies and spending priorities of governments and government agencies; and • access additional capital when required and on reasonable terms. If we fail to successfully address these and other challenges, risks and uncertainties, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially harmed. Our financial results often vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors,which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. For instance, our consumer product revenue is significantly seasonal. For the fiscal years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, we generated 74.6% and 64.5%, respectively, of our revenue from sales of consumer products in the second half of the year. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as equity research analysts and investors respond to these quarterly fluctuations. These fluctuations will be due to numerous factors including: • seasonality in the sales of our consumer products; • the size and timing of orders from retail stores for our home care robots; • the size and timing of orders from military and other government agencies; • the mix of products that we sell in the period; • disruption of supply of our products from our manufacturers; • the inability to attract and retain qualified, revenue-generating personnel; • unanticipated costs incurred in the introduction of new products; 19 Table of Contents • costs of labor and raw materials; • changes in our rate of returns for our consumer products; • our ability to introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis; • price reductions; • warranty costs associated with our consumer products; • the amount of government funding and the political, budgetary and purchasing constraints of our government agency customers; and • cancellations, delays or contract amendments by government agency customers. Predicting revenue for any particular quarter and from sales of our consumer products includes many challenges. Chain stores and other national retailers typically place orders for the holiday season in the third quarter and early in the fourth quarter. The timing of these holiday season shipments could materially affect our third or fourth quarter results in any fiscal year. Because of quarterly fluctuations, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Moreover, our operating results may not meet expectations of equity research analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly or over time. Our future profitability may fluctuate, and we have a limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business. As of December 29, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $11.6 million. Over the past four years, our accumulated deficit has decreased by $15.5 million due to annual operating profitability. Because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, there are challenges to predicting our future operating results, and we cannot be certain that our revenues will grow at rates that will allow us to maintain profitability during every fiscal quarter, or even every fiscal year. In addition, we only have limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business. A majority of our business currently depends on our consumer robots, and our sales growth and operating results would be negatively impacted if we are unable to enhance our current consumer robots or develop new consumer robots at competitive prices or in a timely manner. For the years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, we derived 58.0% and 59.5% of our total revenue from our consumer robots, respectively. For the foreseeable future, we expect that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to be derived from sales of consumer robots in general and home floor care products in particular. Accordingly, our future success depends upon our ability to further penetrate the consumer home care market, to enhance our current consumer products and develop and introduce new consumer products offering enhanced performance and functionality at competitive prices. The development and application of new technologies involve time, substantial costs and risks. Our results in 2008 will depend in part on the success of product lines introduced during 2007, such as the Roomba 500 series robot, Verro pool cleaning robot and the Looj gutter cleaning robot, and there can be no assurance that these new products will achieve or maintain any level of retail or consumer acceptance. Our inability to achieve significant sales of our newly introduced robots, or to enhance, develop and introduce other products in a timely manner, or at all, would materially harm our sales growth and operating results. We depend on the U.S. federal government for a significant portion of our revenue, and any reduction in the amount of business that we do with the U.S. federal government would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. For the years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, we derived 34.9% and 34.4% of our total revenue, respectively, directly or indirectly, from the U.S. federal government and its agencies. Any reduction in the amount of revenue that we derive from a limited number of U.S. federal government agencies without an offsetting increase in new sales to other customers would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our participation in specific major U.S. federal government programs is critical to both the development and sale of our military robots. For example, in the years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, 45.0% and 59.8% of our contract revenue was derived from our participation in the U.S. Army’s Future Combat Systems program, respectively. Future sales of our PackBot robots will depend largely on our ability to secure contracts with the U.S. military under its robot programs. We expect that there will continue to be only a limited number of major programs under which U.S. federal government agencies will seek to fund the development of, or purchase, robots. Our business will, therefore, suffer if we are not awarded, either directly or indirectly through third-party contractors, government contracts for robots that we are qualified to develop or build. In addition, if the U.S. federal government or government agencies terminate or reduce the related prime contract under which we serve as a subcontractor, revenues that we derive under that contract could be lost, which would negatively impact our business and financial results. Moreover, it is difficult to predict the timing of the award of government contracts and our revenue could fluctuate significantly based on the timing of any such awards. Even if we continue to receive funding for research and development under these contracts, there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the development of robots pursuant to these contracts or that, if successfully developed, the U.S. federal government or any other customer will purchase these robots from us. The U.S. federal government has the right when it contracts to use the technology developed by us to have robots supplied by third parties. Any failure by us to complete the development of these robots, or to achieve successful sales of these robots, would harm our business and results of operations. Our contracts with the U.S. federal government contain certain provisions that may be unfavorable to us and subject us to government audits, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. Our contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. federal government subject us to certain risks and give the U.S. federal government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including rights that allow the U.S. federal government to: • terminate contracts for convenience, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason; • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints change; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • exercise production priorities, which allow it to require that we accept government purchase orders or produce products under its contracts before we produce products under other contracts, which may displace or delay production of more profitable orders; • claim certain rights in products provided by us; and • control or prohibit the export of certain of our products. Several of our prime contracts with the U.S. federal government do not contain a limitation of liability provision, creating a risk of responsibility for direct and consequential damages. Several subcontracts with prime contractors hold the prime contractor harmless against liability that stems from our work and do not contain a limitation of liability. These provisions could cause substantial liability for us, especially given the use to which our products may be put. In addition, we are subject to audits by the U.S. federal government as part of routine audits of government contracts. As part of an audit, these agencies may review our performance on contracts, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If any of our costs are found to be allocated improperly to a specific contract, the costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed for such contract may have to be refunded. Accordingly, an audit could result in a material adjustment to our revenue and results of operations. Moreover, if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the government. 21 Table of Contents If any of the foregoing were to occur, or if the U.S. federal government otherwise ceased doing business with us or decreased the amount of business with us, our business and operating results could be materially harmed and the value of your investment in our common stock could be impaired. Some of our contracts with the U.S. federal government allow it to use inventions developed under the contracts and to disclose technical data to third parties, which could harm our ability to compete. Some of our contracts allow the U.S. federal government rights to use, or have others use, patented inventions developed under those contracts on behalf of the government. Some of the contracts allow the federal government to disclose technical data without constraining the recipient in how that data is used. The ability of third parties to use patents and technical data for government purposes creates the possibility that the government could attempt to establish additional sources for the products we provide that stem from these contracts. It may also allow the government the ability to negotiate with us to reduce our prices for products we provide to it. The potential that the government may release some of the technical data without constraint creates the possibility that third parties may be able to use this data to compete with us in the commercial sector. Government contracts are subject to a competitive bidding process that can consume significant resources without generating any revenue. Government contracts are frequently awarded only after formal competitive bidding processes, which are protracted. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders for government agency contracts are provided the opportunity to protest certain contract awards through various agency, administrative and judicial channels. If any of the government contracts awarded to us are protested, we may be required to expend substantial time, effort and financial resources without realizing any revenue with respect to the potential contract. The protest process may substantially delay our contract performance, distract management and result in cancellation of the contract award entirely. We depend on single source manufacturers, and our reputation and results of operations would be harmed if these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements. We currently depend on one contract manufacturers, Jetta Company Limited, to manufacture our Roomba 400 series and Scooba series of home robot products at a single plant in China, and one contract manufacturer, Kin Yat Industrial Co Limited, to manufacture our Roomba 500 series of home robot products at plants in China. Moreover, we rely on one contract manufacturer, Gem City Engineering Corporation, to manufacture our military products at a single plant in the United States. We do not have a long-term contract with Jetta Company Limited and the manufacture of our consumer products is provided on a purchase-order basis. These manufacturers supply substantially all of the raw materials and provide all facilities and labor required to manufacture our products. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture our products until replacement contract manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production is a costly and time-consuming process. We cannot assure you that we would be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. Our reliance on these contract manufacturers involves certain risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • lack of enforceable contractual provisions over the production and costs of consumer products; • risk of loss of inventory while in transit from China; and • risks associated with international commerce with China, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs and trade policies, risks associated with the protection of intellectual property and political and economic instability. 22 Table of Contents Any interruption in the manufacture of our products would be likely to result in delays in shipment, lost sales and revenue and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would harm our business and results of operations. In addition, while our contract obligations with our contract manufacturers in China are typically denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates could impact our suppliers and increase our prices. Any efforts to expand our product offerings beyond our current markets may not succeed, which could negatively impact our operating results. We have focused on selling our robots in the home floor care and military markets. We plan to expand into other markets. For example, we have devoted significant time and incurred expenses in connection with the development of our Looj gutter cleaning robot and ConnectR virtual visiting robot. Efforts to expand our product offerings beyond the two markets that we currently serve, however, may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business, either of which could significantly impair our operating results. Moreover, efforts to expand beyond our existing markets may never result in new products that achieve market acceptance, create additional revenue or become profitable. If we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our headcount and operations are growing rapidly. This rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. From December 30, 2006 to December 29, 2007, the number of our employees increased from 371 to 423. We anticipate further growth will be required to address increases in our product offerings and the geographic scope of our customer base. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage this growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train, manage and integrate a significant number of qualified managers and employees. If our new employees perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or retaining these or our existing employees, our business may suffer. In addition, we face risks associated with managing operations outside the United States, including operations in Hong Kong, China, India and the United Kingdom. To manage the expected continued growth of our headcount and operations, we will need to continue to improve our information technology infrastructure, operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures, and manage expanded operations in geographically distributed locations. Our expected additional headcount and capital investments will increase our costs, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense reductions in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to successfully execute our business plan, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the consumer robot market does not experience significant growth or if our products do not achieve broad acceptance, we will not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of our consumer robots, including our home care robots. For the years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, consumer robots accounted for 58.0% and 59.5%, respectively, of our total revenue. We face challenges in predicting the future growth rate or the size of the consumer robot market in general or the home care robot market in particular. Demand for home care robots may not increase, or may decrease, either generally or in specific geographic markets, for particular types of robots or during particular time periods. The expansion of the home robot market and the market for our products depends on a number of factors, such as: • the cost, performance and reliability of our products and products offered by our competitors; • public perceptions regarding the effectiveness and value of robots; • customer satisfaction with robots; and • marketing efforts and publicity regarding robots. 23 Table of Contents Even if consumer robots gain wide market acceptance, our robots may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance. If robots generally, or our robots specifically, do not gain wide market acceptance, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth, and our revenue and results of operations would suffer. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by significant changes in the policies and spending priorities of governments and government agencies. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to and contracts with U.S. federal, state and local governments and government agencies, and subcontracts under federal government prime contracts. For the years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, U.S. federal government orders, contracts and subcontracts accounted for 34.9% and 34.4%, respectively, of our total revenue. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts either directly or through prime contractors. Many of our government customers are subject to stringent budgetary constraints and our continued performance under these contracts, or award of additional contracts from these agencies, could be jeopardized by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these agencies. We cannot assure you that future levels of expenditures and authorizations will continue for governmental programs in which we provide products and services. A significant decline in government expenditures generally, or with respect to programs for which we provide products, could adversely affect our government product and funded research and development revenues and prospects, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results may also be negatively impacted by other developments that affect these governments and government agencies generally, including: • changes in government programs that are related to our products and services; • adoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations; • changes in political or public support for security and defense programs; • delays or changes in the government appropriations process; • uncertainties associated with the war on terror and other geo-political matters; and • delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. These developments and other factors could cause governments and governmental agencies, or prime contractors that use us as a subcontractor, to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from renewing contracts, any of which would cause our revenue to decline and could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations We face intense competition from other providers of robots, including diversified technology providers, as well as competition from providers offering alternative products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cause our market share to decline. We believe that a number of companies have developed or are developing robots that will compete directly with our product offerings. Additionally, large and small companies, government-sponsored laboratories and universities are aggressively pursuing contracts for robot-focused research and development. Many current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and manufacturing resources than we possess, and there can be no assurance that our current and future competitors will not be more successful than us. Moreover, while we believe many of our customers purchase our floor vacuuming robots as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, their traditional vacuum cleaners. We also compete in some cases with providers of traditional vacuum cleaners. Our current principal competitors include: • developers of robot floor care products such as AB Electrolux, Alfred Kärcher GmbH & Co., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., LG Electronics Inc., Infinuvo/Metapo, Inc, Matsutek Enterprises Co Ltd., Microrobot CO., Ltd., ACE ROBOT Co., Ltd. and Yujin Robotic Co. Ltd. 24 Table of Contents • developers of small unmanned ground vehicles such as Foster-Miller, Inc. — a wholly owned subsidiary of QinetiQ North America, Inc., Allen-Vanguard Corporation, and Remotec — a division of Northrop Grumman Corporation; and • established government contractors working on unmanned systems such as Lockheed Martin Corporation, BAE Systems, Inc. and General Dynamics Corporation. In the event that the robot market expands, we expect that competition will intensify as additional competitors enter the market and current competitors expand their product lines. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented. Increased competitive pressure could result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products, any of which would harm our business and operating results. The market for robots is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs and expectations and the likely increased introduction of new products. Our ability to remain competitive will depend to a great extent upon our ongoing performance in the areas of product development and customer support. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering the markets in which we provide products. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue and market share to decline, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is significantly seasonal and, because many of our expenses are based on anticipated levels of annual revenue, our business and operating results will suffer if we do not achieve revenue consistent with our expectations. Our home robots revenue is significantly seasonal. For the fiscal years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, we generated 74.6% and 64.5%, respectively, of our revenue from sales of consumer products in the second half of the year. We expect a majority of such revenue will continue to be generated in the second half of the year for the foreseeable future. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, including forecasts of holiday sales for our consumer products. A significant portion of our operating expenses, such as research and development expenses, certain marketing and promotional expenses and employee wages and salaries, do not vary directly with sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales for a quarter, particularly the final quarter of a fiscal year, are below our expectations, we might not be able to reduce operating expenses for that quarter and, therefore, we would not be able to reduce our operating expenses for the fiscal year. Accordingly, a sales shortfall during a fiscal quarter, and in particular the fourth quarter of a fiscal year, could have a disproportionate effect on our operating results for that quarter or that year. As a result of these factors, we may report operating results that do not meet the expectations of equity research analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. If critical components of our products that we currently purchase from a small number of suppliers become unavailable, we may incur delays in shipment, which could damage our business. We and our outsourced manufacturers obtain hardware components, various subsystems, raw materials and batteries from a limited group of suppliers, some of which are sole suppliers. We do not have any long-term agreements with these suppliers obligating them to continue to sell components or products to us. Our reliance on these suppliers involves significant risks and uncertainties, including whether our suppliers will provide an adequate supply of required components of sufficient quality, will increase prices for the components and will perform their obligations on a timely basis. If we or our outsourced manufacturers are unable to obtain components from third-party suppliers in the quantities and of the quality that we require, on a timely basis and at acceptable prices, we may not be able to deliver our products on a timely or cost-effective basis to our customers, which could cause customers 25 Table of Contents to terminate their contracts with us, reduce our gross profit and seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, if any of our suppliers become financially unstable, we may have to find new suppliers. It may take several months to locate alternative suppliers, if required, or to re-tool our products to accommodate components from different suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and shipping our products to customers and incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply if we lose any of these sources. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement components within the time frames that we require at an affordable cost, or at all. In particular, the prices of ABS plastic and nickel (for batteries) have fluctuated greatly and we cannot provide assurance that the prices of these components will not materially impact our results of operations. Our products are complex and could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us, diminish our brand or divert our resources from other purposes. Our robots rely on the interplay among behavior-based artificially intelligent systems, real-world dynamic sensors, user-friendly interfaces and tightly-integrated, electromechanical designs to accomplish their missions. Despite testing, our new or existing products have contained defects and errors and may in the future contain defects, errors or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products have been used by our customers for a period of time. These problems could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, delays in the introduction of new products or enhancements, significant increases in our service and maintenance costs, exposure to liability for damages, damaged customer relationships and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially harm our results of operations and ability to achieve market acceptance. Our quality control procedures relating to the raw materials and components that it receives from third-party suppliers as well as our quality control procedures relating to its products after those products are designed, manufactured and packaged may not be sufficient. In addition, increased development and warranty costs, including the costs of any mandatory or voluntary recall or product upgrades, could be substantial and could reduce our operating margins. Moreover, because military robots are used in dangerous situations, the failure or malfunction of any of these robots, including our own, could significantly damage our reputation and support for robot solutions in general. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost, diminish our brand and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The robot industry is and will likely continue to be characterized by rapid technological change,which will require us to develop new products and product enhancements, and could render our existing products obsolete. Continuing technological changes in the robot industry and in the markets in which we sell our robots could undermine our competitive position or make our robots obsolete, either generally or for particular types of services. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new capabilities and enhancements to our existing product offerings, as well as introduce a variety of new product offerings, to address the changing needs of the markets in which we offer our robots. Delays in introducing new products and enhancements, the failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives or the failure to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices may cause existing and potential customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase our competitors’ products. Moreover, the development of new products has required, and will require, that we expend significant financial and management resources. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant research and development expenses in connection with our efforts to expand our product offerings. If we are unable to devote adequate resources to develop new products or cannot otherwise successfully develop new products or enhancements that meet customer requirements on a timely basis, our products could lose market share, our revenue and profits could decline, or we could experience operating losses. Moreover, if we are unable to offset our product development costs through sales of existing or new products or product enhancements, our operating results and gross margins would be negatively impacted. 26 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to grow our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain additional, highly-qualified personnel. Competition for hiring these employees is intense, especially with regard to engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and integrating robots. Many of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain technical personnel. Furthermore, changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States relating to the expensing of stock options may discourage us from granting the sizes or types of stock options that job candidates may require to accept our offer of employment. If we fail to attract new technical personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current employees, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could be costly, time-consuming and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. If the size of our markets increases, we would be more likely to be subject to claims that our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, the vendors from which we license technology used in our products could become subject to similar infringement claims. Our vendors, or we, may not be able to withstand third-party infringement claims. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive, and could divert our management’s attention away from the execution of our business plan. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all, or that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, our affected product. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our retail and distribution partners for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in such a claim. An adverse determination could also prevent us from offering our products to others. Infringement claims asserted against us or our vendors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we fail to maintain or increase our consumer robot sales through our primary distribution channels, which include third-party retailers, our product sales and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Chain stores and other national retailers are the primary distribution channels for our consumer robots and accounted for approximately 31.4% and 41.6% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively. We do not have long-term contracts regarding purchase volumes with any of our distributors. As a result, purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and the relationships, as well as particular orders, can generally be terminated or otherwise materially changed at any time by our distributors. A decision by a major retail distributor, whether motivated by competitive considerations, financial difficulties, economic conditions or otherwise, to decrease its purchases from us, to reduce the shelf space for our products or to change its manner of doing business with us could significantly damage our consumer product sales and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, during recent years, various retailers, including some of our distributors, have experienced significant changes and difficulties, including consolidation of ownership, increased centralization of purchasing decisions, restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. These and other financial problems of some of our retailers increase the risk of extending credit to these retailers. A significant adverse change in a retail distributor relationship with us or in a retail distributor’s financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that distributor, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that distributor’s receivables or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous purchases by that distributor, 27 Table of Contents all of which could harm our business and financial condition. Disruption of the iRobot on-line store could also decrease our home care robot sales. If we fail to enhance our brand, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our operating results may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the iRobot brand is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we expect the importance of global brand recognition to increase as competition develops. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, including our mass media outreach, in-store training and presentations and public relations, and our ability to provide customers with reliable and technically sophisticated robots at competitive prices. If customers do not perceive our products to be of high quality, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, brand promotion efforts may not yield significant revenue or increased revenue sufficient to offset the additional expenses incurred in building our brand. If we incur substantial expenses to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract sufficient customers to realize a return on our brand-building efforts, and our business would suffer. If our existing collaborations are unsuccessful or we fail to establish new collaborations, our ability to develop and commercialize additional products could be significantly harmed. If we cannot maintain our existing collaborations or establish new collaborations, we may not be able to develop additional products. We anticipate that some of our future products will be developed and commercialized in collaboration with companies that have expertise outside the robot field. For example, we are currently collaborating with: The Boeing Company, acting by and through its Integrated Defense Systems Combat Systems business unit, on the development of the PackBot SUGV-Early; Deere & Company on the development of the R-Gator unmanned ground vehicle; TASER International, Inc. on the development of robots that can remotely engage, incapacitate and control dangerous suspects; and The Clorox Company on the cleaning solution used in our Scooba floor washing robot. Under these collaborations, we may be dependent on our collaborators to fund some portion of development of the product or to manufacture and market either the primary product that is developed pursuant to the collaboration or complementary products required in order to operate our products. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to establish additional collaborative relationships on acceptable terms. Our existing collaborations and any future collaborations with third parties may not be scientifically or commercially successful. Factors that may affect the success of our collaborations include the following: • our collaborators may not devote the resources necessary or may otherwise be unable to complete development and commercialization of these potential products; • our existing collaborations are and future collaborations may be subject to termination on short notice; • our collaborators may be pursuing alternative technologies or developing alternative products, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that may be competitive with our products, which could affect our collaborators’ commitment to the collaboration with us; • reductions in marketing or sales efforts or a discontinuation of marketing or sales of our products by our collaborators could reduce our revenue; • our collaborators may terminate their collaborations with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or harm our reputation in the business and financial communities; and • our collaborators may pursue higher priority programs or change the focus of their development programs, which would weaken our collaborators’ commitment to us. 28 Table of Contents We depend on the experience and expertise of our senior management team and key technical employees, and the loss of any key employee may impair our ability to operate effectively. Our success depends upon the continued services of our senior management team and key technical employees, such as our project management personnel and senior engineers. Moreover, we often must comply with provisions in government contracts that require employment of persons with specified levels of education and work experience. Each of our executive officers, key technical personnel and other employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The loss of any member of our senior management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could materially harm our business and customer relationships. In addition, because of the highly technical nature of our robots, the loss of any significant number of our existing engineering and project management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are subject to extensive U.S. federal government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. As a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to and must comply with various government regulations that impact our operating costs, profit margins and the internal organization and operation of our business. Among the most significant regulations affecting our business are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulations and supplemental agency regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under cost-based government contracts; • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from providing anything of value to a foreign official to help obtain, retain or direct business, or obtain any unfair advantage; • the False Claims Act and the False Statements Act, which, respectively, impose penalties for payments made on the basis of false facts provided to the government, and impose penalties on the basis of false statements, even if they do not result in a payment; and • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Also, we need special clearances to continue working on and advancing certain of our projects with the U.S. federal government. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain the clearances or terminate employment with us, then a customer requiring classified work could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and employ personnel with specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts. For example, if we were to lose our security clearance, we would be unable to continue to participate in the U.S. Army’s Future Combat Systems program. Classified programs generally will require that we comply with various Executive Orders, federal laws and regulations and customer security requirements that may include restrictions on how we develop, store, protect and share information, and may require our employees to obtain government clearances. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals could result in the imposition of penalties, the loss of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government generally, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Significant technology used in our products, however, is not the subject of any patent protection, and we may be unable to obtain patent protection on such technology in the future. Moreover, existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and may be challenged by third parties. In addition, the laws of countries other than the United States in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Some of our contracts with the U.S. federal government allow the federal government to disclose technical data regarding the products developed on behalf of the government under the contract without constraining the recipient on how it is used. This ability of the government creates the potential that third parties may be able to use this data to compete with us in the commercial sector. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights may entail significant expense. We believe that certain products in the marketplace may infringe our existing intellectual property rights. We have, from time to time, resorted to legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property and may continue to do so in the future. We may be required to expend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could result in significant expense to us and divert the attention and efforts of our management and technical employees, even if we were to prevail. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we intend to consider acquisitions of companies, technologies and products that we believe could accelerate our ability to compete in our core markets or allow us to enter new markets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; • risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company’s business; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company’s products; and • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. 30 Table of Contents Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents, cash provided by operating activities and funds available through our working capital line of credit, will be sufficient to meet our current and anticipated needs for general corporate purposes. We operate in an emerging market, however, which makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. For example in fiscal 2007 we consumed $27 million of our cash and short term investments. If similar consumptions of cash were to continue, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: • hire additional engineers and other personnel; • develop new, or enhance existing, robots and robot accessories; • enhance our operating infrastructure; • acquire complementary businesses or technologies; or • otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Environmental laws and regulations and unforeseen costs could negatively impact our future earnings. The manufacture and sale of our products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations. We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive). Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan. There is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not impair future earnings or results of operations. Business disruptions resulting from international uncertainties could negatively impact our profitability. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from international sales in various European markets, Canada, Japan, Korea and Singapore. For the fiscal years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, sales to non-U.S. customers accounted for 13.1% and 11.0% of total revenue, respectively. Our international revenue and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in multiple countries; 31 Table of Contents • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems and other relevant legal issues; • fewer legal protections for intellectual property; • foreign and U.S. taxation issues and international trade barriers; • difficulties in obtaining any necessary governmental authorizations for the export of our products to certain foreign jurisdictions; • potential fluctuations in foreign economies; • government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; • domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future; and • different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, our sales, including sales to customers outside the United States, are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and downward fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make our products more expensive than other products, which could harm our business. If we are unable to continue to obtain U.S. federal government authorization regarding the export of our products, or if current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business, we could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries, which would harm our ability to generate revenue. We must comply with U.S. laws regulating the export of our products. In addition, we are required to obtain a license from the U.S. federal government to export our PackBot line of tactical military robots. We cannot be sure of our ability to obtain any licenses required to export our products or to receive authorization from the U.S. federal government for international sales or domestic sales to foreign persons. Moreover, the export regimes and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to change. We cannot assure you of the extent that such export authorizations will be available to us, if at all, in the future. In some cases where we act as a subcontractor, we rely upon the compliance activities of our prime contractors, and we cannot assure you that they have taken or will take all measures necessary to comply with applicable export laws. If we or our prime contractor partners cannot obtain required government approvals under applicable regulations in a timely manner or at all, we would be delayed or prevented from selling our products in international jurisdictions, which could materially harm our business, operating results and ability to generate revenue. We invest in auction rate securities that are subject to market risk and the recent problems in the financial markets could adversely affect the value and liquidity of our assets. As of December 29, 2007, our $16.6 million of short-term investments consisted of auction rate securities. Recent uncertainties in the credit markets may result in certain of our investments in auction rate securities becoming subject to liquidity risk. Subsequent to December 29, 2007, the $16.6 million of auction rate securities held at December 29, 2007 have been liquidated. As of February 21, 2008, we held $17.5 million of variable rate bonds or auction rate securities, all of which were purchased in January or February of 2008. A substantial majority of the underlying assets of these auction rate securities are student loans which are backed by the federal government under the Federal Family Education Loan 32 Table of Contents Program. On February 19, 2008 one auction failed for $2.5 million of our auction rate securities and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed in the future. As a result, our ability to liquidate our investments in the near term may be limited, and our ability to fully recover the carrying value of our investments may be limited or non-existent. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell securities could not carry out the transaction. All of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the prior failures, are currently rated AAA, the highest rating available by a rating agency. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. We believe we will be able to liquidate our investments without significant loss but the timing of such an outcome is uncertain. We currently believe these securities are not significantly impaired, primarily due to the government backing of the underlying securities. However, it could take until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. Based on our expected operating cash flows, and our other potential sources of cash, including our available line of credit, we do not anticipate that the potential lack of liquidity on these investments in the near-term will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. State and local taxing authorities may determine that we are required to collect and remit sales tax in additional jurisdictions. We collect and remit sales tax in states in which we have a physical presence or in which we believe nexus exists, which obligates us to collect sales tax. Other states may, from time to time, claim that we have state-related activities constituting a sufficient nexus to require such collection. Additionally, many other states seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on companies that sell goods to customers in their state, or directly to the state and its political subdivisions, even without a physical presence. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales tax on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales. Currently, U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives were successful, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in additional states, which could result in substantial tax liabilities and penalties in connection with past sales. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. Additionally, there is no guarantee that we will realize our deferred tax assets. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. At December 29, 2007 we had gross deferred tax assets of $12.9 million and a valuation allowance of $2.7 million resulting in net deferred tax asset of $10.2 million. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of our net deferred tax assets. The realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Our results of operations would be impacted negatively if we determine that increases to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance are required in a future reporting period. 33 Table of Contents Our directors and management will exercise significant control over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 29, 2007, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively beneficially owned approximately 27.6% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, our shareholder rights agreement or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. We have also adopted a shareholder rights agreement that entitles our stockholders to acquire shares of our common stock at a price equal to 50% of the then-current market value in limited circumstances when a third party acquires or announces its intention to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 