RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks we face, together with the other information in this document when you make investment decisions involving our securities. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prices of our securities. MARKET DECLINES AND VOLATILITY CAN MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND PROFITS. In recent years we have increased our exposure to the financial markets as we have emphasized growth in our investment banking activities, including trading activities. Accordingly, we believe that we are more at risk from adverse developments in the financial markets than we were when we derived a larger percentage of our revenues from traditional lending activities. Market declines can cause our revenues to decline, and, if we are unable to reduce our expenses at the same pace, can cause our profitability to erode. Volatility can sometimes also adversely affect us. An overall market downturn can adversely affect our business and financial performance. Market downturns can occur not only as a result of purely economic factors, but also as a result of war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or other similar events. WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT LOSSES FROM OUR TRADING AND INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES DUE TO MARKET FLUCTUATIONS. We enter into and maintain large trading and investment positions in the fixed income, equity and currency markets, primarily through our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division. We describe these activities in “Item 4: Information on the Company — Our Group Divisions — Corporate and Investment Bank Group Division.” We also have made significant investments in individual companies, primarily through our Corporate Investments and Corporate Investment Bank Group Divisions, which we describe in “Item 4: Information on the Company — Our Group Divisions”. We also maintain smaller trading and investment positions in other assets. Many of these trading positions include derivative financial instruments. In each of the product and business lines in which we enter into these kinds of positions, part of our business entails making assessments about the financial markets and trends in them. The revenues and profits we derive from many of our positions and our transactions in connection with them are dependent on market prices. When we own assets, market price declines can expose us to losses. Many of the more sophisticated transactions we describe in our discussions of our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division are designed to profit from price movements and differences among prices. If prices move in a way we have not anticipated, we may experience losses. Also, when markets are volatile — characterized by rapid changes in price direction — the assessments we have made may prove to lead to lower revenues or profits, or losses, on the related transactions and positions. In addition, we sometimes commit capital and take market risk to facilitate certain capital markets transactions; doing so can result in losses as well as income volatility. PROTRACTED MARKET DECLINES CAN REDUCE LIQUIDITY IN THE MARKETS, MAKING IT HARDER TO SELL ASSETS AND POSSIBLY LEADING TO MATERIAL LOSSES. In some of our businesses, protracted market movements, particularly asset price declines, can reduce the level of activity in the market or reduce market liquidity. These developments can lead to material losses if we cannot close out deteriorating positions in a timely way. This may especially be the case for assets we hold for which there are not 9 Table of Contents 20-F // ITEM 3: KEY INFORMATION very liquid markets to begin with. Assets that are not traded on stock exchanges or other public trading markets, such as derivatives contracts between banks, may have values that we calculate using models other than publicly-quoted prices. Monitoring the deterioration of prices of assets like these is difficult and could lead to losses we did not anticipate. EVEN WHERE LOSSES ARE FOR OUR CLIENTS’ ACCOUNTS, THEY MAY FAIL TO REPAY US, LEADING TO MATERIAL LOSSES FOR US, AND OUR REPUTATION CAN BE HARMED. While our clients would be responsible for losses we incur in taking positions for their accounts, we may be exposed to additional credit risk as a result of their need to cover the losses. Our business may also suffer if our clients lose money and we lose the confidence of clients in our products and services. OUR INVESTMENT BANKING REVENUES MAY DECLINE IN ADVERSE MARKET OR ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, directly relate to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and are susceptible to adverse effects from sustained market downturns. These fees and other revenues are generally linked to the value of the underlying assets and therefore decline as asset values decline. In particular, our revenues and profitability could sustain material adverse effects from a significant reduction in the number or size of debt and equity offerings and merger and acquisition transactions. WE MAY GENERATE LOWER REVENUES FROM BROKERAGE AND OTHER COMMISSION- AND FEE-BASED BUSINESSES. Market downturns are likely to lead to declines in the volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and, therefore, to declines in our noninterest revenues. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients’ portfolios are in many cases based on the value or performance of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals would reduce the revenues we receive from our asset management and private banking businesses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market performance by our investment funds may result in increased withdrawals and reduced inflows, which would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management business. OUR NONTRADITIONAL CREDIT BUSINESSES MATERIALLY ADD TO OUR TRADITIONAL BANKING CREDIT RISKS. Like other banks and providers of financial services, we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. Many of the businesses we engage in beyond the traditional banking businesses of deposit-taking and lending also expose us to credit risk. In particular, many of the businesses we have engaged in through our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division entail credit transactions, frequently ancillary to other transactions. Nontraditional sources of credit risk can arise, for example, from: — holding securities of third parties; — entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; — executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades that fail to settle at the required time due to nondelivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries; and — extending credit through other arrangements. 10 Table of Contents Parties to these transactions, such as trading counterparties, may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, political and economic events, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We describe our credit risk and the methods we use to monitor it in “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk — Risk and Capital Management — Credit Risk.” IF WE ARE UNABLE TO IMPLEMENT OUR MANAGEMENT AGENDA, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SUSTAIN OUR RETURN ON EQUITY OR ACHIEVE OUR PRE-TAX PROFIT TARGETS OR GROWTH IN OUR EARNINGS PER SHARE, AND OUR SHARE PRICE MAY BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED. In 2002, we initiated a multi-year and multi-phased management agenda designed to help us reduce costs, lower our risk profile, increase efficiency and raise our profitability. The first phase of the agenda focused on management’s priorities to transform the Bank and the second phase focused on a strategy of achieving sustainable profitable growth. In 2005, we successfully reached our published financial target of 25 % pre-tax return on average active equity (our target definition of pre-tax return, which is described on page (iv), excludes certain significant charges and gains from our income before income taxes). Our ratios of income before income taxes to average active equity and to average total shareholders’ equity were 24 % and 22 %, respectively. In 2006, we launched “Phase 3” of our management agenda. Our overall objective is to leverage our global platform for accelerated growth. We have defined four specific goals. First, to maintain our risk, capital and regulatory discipline; second, to continue to invest in organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions; third, to further grow our businesses which we believe are viewed by the market as having more stable earnings streams, namely Private Clients and Asset Management and Global Transaction Banking; and fourth, to build on our competitive strength in Corporate and Investment Banking. Furthermore, we aim to exploit synergies, for both revenue generation and cost-efficiency, by fostering teamwork and collaboration between our mutually supporting businesses. We continue to aim for a sustainable pre-tax return on average active equity, using our target definition as defined above, of 25 % across the business cycle, together with double-digit growth in diluted earnings per share. Phase 3 of our strategy also aims to deliver pre-tax profit (target definition) of € 8.4 billion from our Group by 2008. We describe Phase 3 in greater detail in “Item 4: Information on the Company-Business Overview-Our Business Strategy”, including the pre-tax profit targets we have set for our business segments by 2008 (which are also described on pages (iv) and S-12). We may be unable to sustain our return on equity or achieve our earnings per share growth objective or our pre-tax profit targets, and our share price may be materially and adversely affected, should we fail to implement our management agenda or growth initiatives or should such initiatives that are implemented fail to produce the anticipated benefits. A number of internal and external factors could prevent the implementation of these initiatives or the realization of their anticipated benefits, including changes in the markets in which we are active, global, regional and national economic conditions and increased competition for business and employees. We describe our management agenda and its anticipated benefits, as well as factors that could affect the success of this agenda, in ''Item 4: Information on the Company — Business Overview - Our Business Strategy’’ and ''Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results — Executive Summary.’’’ OPERATIONAL RISKS MAY DISRUPT OUR BUSINESSES. We face operational risk arising from errors made in the execution, confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated or accounted for. Derivative contracts, particularly for credit derivatives, are not always confirmed with the counterparties on a timely basis; while the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies, and the transactions we process have become increasingly com- 11 Table of Contents 20-F // ITEM 3: KEY INFORMATION plex. Consequently, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly, or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, despite the contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business, terrorist activities or disease pandemics. THE SIZE OF OUR CLEARING OPERATIONS EXPOSES US TO A HEIGHTENED RISK OF MATERIAL LOSSES SHOULD THESE OPERATIONS FAIL TO FUNCTION PROPERLY. We have very large clearing and settlement businesses. While many other banks and financial institutions operate large clearing businesses, we believe that the sheer scope of ours heightens the risk that we, our customers or other third parties could lose substantial sums if our systems fail to operate properly for even short periods. This will be the case even where the reason for the interruption is external to us. In such a case, we might suffer harm to our reputation even if no material amounts of money are lost. This could cause customers to take their business elsewhere, which could materially harm our revenues and our profits. THE FAIR VALUES WE DETERMINE FOR CERTAIN OF OUR FINANCIAL ASSETS MIGHT DIFFER FROM THEIR ACTUAL NET REALIZABLE VALUES. As described in “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting Estimates — Fair Value Estimates”, certain of our financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value. Our fair value estimates are considered critical accounting estimates for our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division, which trades certain illiquid securities and over-the-counter derivatives, some of which are long-dated or are complex structures, and our Corporate Investments Group Division, which holds investments that are not actively traded. Where available, fair value is based on quoted market prices or observable market parameters, or derived from such prices or parameters, and minimal or no management judgment or estimation is required. Where quoted market prices or observable market parameters are not available, valuation techniques appropriate for the particular instrument or market are applied to estimate fair value. These valuation techniques involve some level of management judgment and estimation, the degree of which will depend on the price transparency for the instrument or market and the instrument’s complexity. Management judgment is required in the selection and application of the appropriate parameters, assumptions and modeling techniques. Notwithstanding our established internal control procedures, our estimate of the fair value for an asset or liability for which significant management judgment and estimation is required might differ from actual net realizable values. In the event our estimate of the fair value of an asset exceeded its actual net realizable value, or our estimate of the fair value of a liability was exceeded by its actual net realizable value, we may incur losses. OUR RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND METHODS MAY LEAVE US EXPOSED TO UNIDENTIFIED OR UNANTICIPATED RISKS, WHICH COULD LEAD TO MATERIAL LOSSES. We have devoted significant resources to developing our risk management policies, procedures and assessment methods and intend to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our risk management techniques and strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our qualitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to arrive at quantifications of our risk exposures. These tools and metrics may fail to predict future risk exposures. These risk exposures could, for example, arise from factors we did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in our statistical 12 Table of Contents models. This would limit our ability to manage our risks. Our losses thus could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. See “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Credit, Market and Other Risk” for a more detailed discussion of the policies, procedures and methods we use to identify, monitor and manage our risks. If existing or potential customers believe our risk management is inadequate, they could take their business elsewhere. This could harm our reputation as well as our revenues and profits. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY IN IDENTIFYING AND EXECUTING ACQUISITIONS, AND BOTH MAKING ACQUISITIONS AND AVOIDING THEM COULD MATERIALLY HARM OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND OUR SHARE PRICE. We consider business combinations from time to time. Even though we review the companies we plan to acquire, it is generally not feasible for these reviews to be complete in all respects. As a result, we may assume unanticipated liabilities, or an acquisition may not perform as well as expected. Were we to announce or complete a significant business combination transaction, our share price could decline significantly if investors viewed the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve our competitive position. In addition, we might have difficulty integrating any entity with which we combine our operations. Failure to complete announced business combinations or failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into ours could materially adversely affect our profitability. It could also affect investors’ perception of our business prospects and management, and thus cause our share price to fall. It could also lead to departures of key employees, or lead to increased costs and reduced profitability if we felt compelled to offer them financial incentives to remain. If we avoid entering into additional business combination transactions or fail to identify attractive companies to acquire, market participants may, especially in the current climate of consolidation, perceive us negatively. We may also be unable to expand our businesses, especially into new business areas, as quickly or successfully as our competitors if we do so through organic growth alone. These perceptions and limitations could cost us business and harm our reputation. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTIES SELLING NONCORE ASSETS AT FAVORABLE PRICES, OR AT ALL. As part of our efforts to focus on our core businesses, we may seek to sell certain noncore assets. Unfavorable business or market conditions may make it difficult for us to sell such assets at favorable prices, or may preclude such a sale altogether. EVENTS AT COMPANIES IN WHICH WE HAVE INVESTED MAY MAKE IT HARDER TO SELL OUR HOLDINGS AND RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES IRRESPECTIVE OF MARKET DEVELOPMENTS. We have made significant investments in individual companies, primarily through our Corporate Investments and Corporate Investment Bank Group Divisions. Where we have done so, the effect of losses and risks at those companies may restrict our ability to sell our shareholdings and may reduce the value of our holdings considerably, including the value thereof reflected in our financial statements, or require us to take charges to our earnings, even where general market conditions are favorable. Our larger, less liquid interests are particularly vulnerable given the size of these exposures. INTENSE COMPETITION, IN OUR HOME MARKET OF GERMANY AS WELL AS IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS, COULD MATERIALLY HURT OUR REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. Competition is intense in all of our primary business areas in Germany and the other countries in which we conduct large portions of our business, including other European countries and the United States. If we are unable to respond to the competitive environment in Germany or in our other major markets with attractive product and service offerings that are profitable for us, we may lose market share in important areas of our business or incur losses on some or all 13 Table of Contents 20-F // ITEM 3: KEY INFORMATION of our activities. In addition, downturns in the German economy could add to the competitive pressure, through, for example, increased price pressure and lower business volumes for us and our competitors. In recent years there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry, particularly in Europe. This trend has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our competitors and has hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. In order to take advantage of some of our most significant challenges and opportunities, we will have to compete successfully with financial institutions that are larger and better capitalized than us and that may have a stronger position in local markets. As mentioned above, we sometimes commit capital and take market risk to facilitate certain capital markets transactions. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, competitive pressure to retain market share by committing capital to businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate clients sometimes seek such commitments (such as credit commitments) from financial services firms in connection with investments banking and other assignments. We have also experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. WE OPERATE IN AN INCREASINGLY REGULATED AND LITIGIOUS ENVIRONMENT, POTENTIALLY EXPOSING US TO LIABILITY AND OTHER COSTS, THE AMOUNTS OF WHICH MAY BE DIFFICULT TO ESTIMATE. The financial services industry has historically been and continues to be among the most highly regulated industries. Our operations throughout the world are regulated and supervised by the central banks and regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Regulation and supervision includes requirements regarding our structure, capitalization and function, as well as requirements relating to the conduct of our business. In recent years, regulation and supervision in a number of areas has increased, and regulators, counterparties and others have sought to subject financial services providers to increasing responsibilities and liabilities. As a result, we may be subject to an increasing incidence or amount of liability or regulatory sanctions and may be required to make greater expenditures and devote additional resources to address potential liability. Due to the nature of our business, we and our subsidiaries are involved in litigation, arbitration and regulatory proceedings in Germany and in a number of jurisdictions outside Germany, including the United States. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. We may settle litigation or regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgment or determination pursuant to which our liability is established and quantified. We may do so to avoid the cost, management efforts or negative business, regulatory or reputational consequences of continuing to contest liability, even when we believe we have valid defenses to liability. We may also do so when the potential economic, business, regulatory or reputational consequences of failing to prevail would be disproportionate to the costs of settlement. Furthermore, we may, for similar reasons, reimburse counterparties for losses incurred by them even in situations where we do not believe that we are legally compelled to do so. See “Item 8: Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” and Note [34] to our consolidated financial statements for information on our judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings. The financial impact of legal risks might be considerable but may be hard or impossible to estimate and so to quantify, so that amounts eventually paid may exceed the amount of reserves set aside therefore. See “Item 5: Operational and Financial Review and Prospects — Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting Estimates — Legal, Regulatory and Tax Contingencies”. 14 Table of Contents TRANSACTIONS WITH COUNTERPARTIES IN COUNTRIES DESIGNATED BY THE U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT AS STATE SPONSORS OF TERRORISM MAY LEAD SOME POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS AND INVESTORS IN THE U.S. AND OTHER COUNTRIES TO AVOID DOING BUSINESS WITH US OR INVESTING IN OUR SECURITIES. We engage in a limited amount of business with counterparties in Iran, including counterparties owned or controlled by the government of Iran, and have a representative office in Tehran, Iran. We formerly engaged in a limited amount of business with counterparties in Sudan, but discontinued such activities in 2006. The U.S. State Department has designated such countries as state sponsors of terrorism, and U.S. law generally prohibits U.S. persons from doing business with such countries. We also engage in a limited amount of business with counterparties in Libya, which was designated a state sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. State Department until June 30, 2006, when such designation was rescinded. We are a German bank and our activities with respect to such countries have not involved any U.S. person in either a managerial or operational role and have been subject to policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with United Nations, European Union and German embargoes. Our business with counterparties of such countries consists mostly of arranging large trade finance facilities to finance the export contracts of exporters in Europe and Asia, which exporters are primarily multinational corporations supplying goods, equipment and related services in the petrochemical and hydrocarbon processing industries. Other business activities include correspondent banking services to banks located in such countries and private banking loans to nationals of such countries. We do not believe our business activities with counterparties of such countries are material to our overall business, with our outstandings to borrowers of such countries representing less than 0.1 % of our total assets as of December 31, 2006 and our revenues from all such activities representing less than 0.1 % of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. We are aware, through press reports and other means, of initiatives by governmental entities in the U.S. and by U.S. institutions such as universities and pension funds, to adopt laws, regulations or policies prohibiting transactions with or investment in, or requiring divestment from, entities doing business with such countries. It is possible that such initiatives may result in our being unable to gain or retain entities subject to such prohibitions as customers or as investors in our securities. In addition, our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries. Such a result could have significant adverse effects on our business or the price of our securities. 15 Table of Contents 20-F // 