Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks we face, together with other information in this document, when you make investment decisions involving our securities. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prices of our securities. As a global investment bank with a large private client franchise, our businesses are materially affected by global macroeconomic and financial market conditions. Over the last several years, banks, including us, have experienced nearly continuous stress on their business models and prospects. Persistent doubt about the sustainability of the global economic recovery continues to materially affect our businesses, particularly through its negative impact on client activity levels. Although the intervention by the European Central Bank (generally referred to as the ECB) in financial markets appears to have forestalled further iterations of the euro crisis and somewhat improved the macroeconomic and market environment in the eurozone in 2013, economic growth in Europe remained weak, and many European economies continued to face structural challenges as unemployment and structural debt levels remained high. In the United States, uncertainties concerning the political stalemate over fiscal policy and potential changes to the U.S. Federal Reserve’s program to make large purchases of long-term financial assets to stimulate the U.S. economy (referred to as “quantitative easing”) have repeatedly re-emerged to endanger a still tepid and fragile economic recovery. A further risk we consider is a potentially disruptive U.S. monetary tightening. Emerging markets experienced volatility in 2013 amid concerns that the level of foreign investment inflows would decline substantially as the liquidity-enhancing measures in the United States and Europe are tapered down. Against this background and these uncertainties, we have observed subdued client activity in a number of our businesses, with our credit flow businesses affected in particular by the potential tapering of quantitative easing, even as the ultra-low interest rate environment has also put pressure on our margins in several traditional banking sectors. These challenges have been exacerbated as we continue to face headwinds from the continuing intensification of the regulatory environment as well as a continued high level of litigation and enforcement matters that have given rise to reputational issues and have put further pressure on profitability and returns. The challenging economic and market conditions over recent years have led us to recalibrate our business model in response to the effects of the global financial crisis, the European sovereign debt crisis and the gradual discontinuation of the active intervention of central banks in the financial markets. Despite initiatives to lessen our exposure to businesses we have decided to cut back or exit, we still have substantial remaining exposures in some asset classes (as we reduce these asset classes in a deliberate way we believe is economically best for us) and thus continue to be exposed to any future deterioration in prices for the remaining positions. If uncertainty about the macroeconomic environment persists or worsens, these trends may also be difficult for us to counter. More generally, if economic conditions in the eurozone remain at their current subdued levels, or worsen, or if economic growth stagnates elsewhere, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Continued quantitative easing in response to this may lead to a continuation of the current environment of low interest rates and margin compression, which may also already affect our business and financial position. By contrast, any decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve to further reduce quantitative easing or by central banks more generally to tighten their monetary policy if economies continue to improve could have a material adverse effect on perceptions of liquidity in the financial system and on the global economy more generally, and may adversely affect our business and financial position. In particular, we may in the future be unable to offset the potential negative effects on our profitability of the current macroeconomic and market conditions through performance in our other businesses. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 12 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F We have been and may continue to be directly affected by the European sovereign debt crisis, and we may be required to take impairments on our exposures to the sovereign debt of European or other countries. The credit default swaps into which we have entered to manage sovereign credit risk may not be available to offset these losses. Starting in late 2009, the sovereign debt markets of the eurozone began to undergo substantial stress as the markets began to perceive the credit risk of a number of countries as having increased. A number of measures taken by European governments and regulators have appeared to stem the most negative effects of the crisis at least over the short term, in particular through the loosening of central bank funding and the restructuring of Greece’s sovereign indebtedness. However, there is still substantial uncertainty surrounding the sovereign debt crisis, especially in the light of the weak economic recovery in the eurozone outside Germany, and the risk still exists that the sovereign debt crisis may reignite and its effects spread to the core of the eurozone. The effects of the sovereign debt crisis have been especially evident in the financial sector, as a large portion of the sovereign debt of eurozone countries is held by European financial institutions, including us. As of December 31, 2013, we had a direct sovereign credit risk exposure of € 1.9 billion to Italy, € 1.2 billion to Spain, € 61 million to Ireland, € 38 million to Portugal and € 52 million to Greece. Despite the current apparent abatement of the crisis, it remains uncertain whether Greece or other eurozone sovereigns, such as Spain, Italy, Portugal and Cyprus, will be able to manage their debt levels in the future. In the future, negotiations or exchanges similar to the Greek debt restructuring in 2012 could take place with respect to the sovereign debt of these or other affected countries. The outcome of any negotiations regarding changed terms (including reduced principal amounts or extended maturities) of sovereign debt may result in additional impairments of assets on our balance sheet. Any negotiations are highly likely to be subject to political and economic pressures that we cannot control, and we are unable to predict their effects on the financial markets, on the greater economy or on ourselves. In addition, any restructuring of outstanding sovereign debt may result in potential losses for us and other market participants that are not covered by payouts on hedging instruments that we have entered into to protect against the risk of default. These instruments largely consist of credit default swaps, generally referred to as CDSs, pursuant to which one party agrees to make a payment to another party if a credit event (such as a default) occurs on the identified underlying debt obligation. A sovereign restructuring that avoids a credit event through voluntary write-downs of value may not trigger the provisions in CDSs we have entered into, meaning that our exposures in the event of a write-down could exceed the exposures we previously viewed as our net exposure after hedging. Additionally, even if the CDS provisions are triggered, the amounts ultimately paid under the CDSs may not correspond to the full amount of any loss we incur. We also face the risk that our hedging counterparties have not effectively hedged their own exposures and may be unable to provide the necessary liquidity if payments under the instruments they have written are triggered. This may result in systemic risk for the European banking sector as a whole and may negatively affect our business and financial position. Regulatory and political actions by European governments in response to the sovereign debt crisis may not be sufficient to prevent the crisis from spreading or to prevent departure of one or more member countries from the common currency over the long term. The default or departure of any one or more countries from the euro could have unpredictable consequences on the financial system and the greater economy, potentially leading to declines in business levels, write-downs of assets and losses across our businesses. Our ability to protect ourselves against these risks is limited. Although the severity of the European sovereign debt crisis has abated somewhat over the short term, the eurozone continues to face structural challenges that may, in the future, contribute to renewed instability in its sovereign debt markets and in the economy more generally. Any deterioration of the sovereign debt market in the eurozone or in Eastern Europe could quickly change the economic and financial situation throughout the eurozone and affect even the financially more stable countries in the eurozone, including Germany. Substantial doubt remains whether actions taken by European policymakers will be sufficient to contain the crisis over the longer term. In particular, the European Stability Mechanism, generally referred to as the ESM, the special Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 13 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F purpose vehicle created by the European Union to combat the sovereign debt crisis, may prove to be ineffective in a crisis situation. In addition, the austerity programs introduced by a number of countries across the eurozone in response to the sovereign debt crisis may continue to dampen economic growth over the medium and longer terms. As economic weakness continues in the eurozone, questions about the long-term growth prospects of the eurozone countries could exacerbate their difficulties in refinancing their sovereign debt as it comes due, further increasing pressure on other eurozone governments. In addition, the possibility exists that one or more members of the eurozone may default on their debt obligations or leave the common currency, resulting in the reintroduction of one or more national currencies. Should a eurozone country conclude it must exit the common currency, the resulting need to reintroduce a national currency and restate existing contractual obligations could have unpredictable financial, legal, political and social consequences, leading not only to significant losses on sovereign debt but also on private debt in that country. Given the highly interconnected nature of the financial system within the eurozone, and the high levels of exposure we have to public and private counterparties around Europe, our ability to plan for such a contingency in a manner that would reduce our exposure to non-material levels is likely to be limited. If the overall economic climate deteriorates as a result of one or more departures from the eurozone, our business could be adversely affected, and, if overall business levels decline or we are forced to write down significant exposures among our various businesses, we could incur substantial losses. We have a continuous demand for liquidity to fund our business activities. We may suffer during periods of market-wide or firm-specific liquidity constraints, and liquidity may not be available to us even if our underlying business remains strong. We are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk arising from our potential inability to meet all payment obligations when they become due or only being able to meet them at excessive cost. Our liquidity may become impaired due to a reluctance of our counterparties or the market to finance our operations due to actual or perceived weaknesses in our businesses. Such impairments can also arise from circumstances unrelated to our businesses and outside our control, such as, but not limited to, disruptions in the financial markets. For example, we have experienced, as a result of the European sovereign debt crisis in 2012, declines in the price of our shares and increases in the premium investors must pay when purchasing CDSs on our debt. In addition, negative developments concerning other financial institutions perceived to be comparable to us and negative views about the financial services industry in general have also recently affected us. These perceptions have affected the prices at which we have accessed the capital markets to obtain the necessary funding to support our business activities; should these perceptions worsen, our ability to obtain this financing on acceptable terms may be adversely affected. Among other things, an inability to refinance assets on our balance sheet or maintain appropriate levels of capital to protect against deteriorations in their value could force us to liquidate assets we hold at depressed prices or on unfavorable terms, and could also force us to curtail business, such as the extension of new credit. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of funding pressures arising from the European sovereign debt crisis and the global economic weakness more generally, there has been increased intervention by a number of central banks over the past several years, in particular the ECB, and the U.S. Federal Reserve. In September 2012, the ECB announced an unlimited sovereign bond buying program (referred to as the OMT Program) aimed at keeping the borrowing costs of affected eurozone countries low through the purchase of their debt instruments. In a court order dated January 14, 2014, the German Constitutional Court (Bundesverfassungsgericht) has sought guidance from the Court of Justice of the European Union as to whether the OMT Program is valid under European law. A decision finding that the OMT Program is incompatible with European law could adversely affect the ability of the ECB to invoke the OMT Program and negatively impact the stability of the eurozone. In addition to the OMT Program, the ECB agreed in December 2011 and February 2012 to provide low-interest secured loans to European financial institutions for up to three years. The U.S. Federal Reserve has expanded its provision of U.S. dollar liquidity to the ECB, which the ECB has then made available to European banks. To date a number of financial institutions have drawn on these funding sources to maintain or enhance their liquidity. The U.S. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 14 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F Federal Reserve has also implemented a program referred to as “quantitative easing”, which is designed to keep long-term interest rates low through substantial purchases of long-term financial assets from private institutions. To the extent these incremental measures are curtailed or halted, this could adversely impact funding markets for all European institutions, including us, leading to an increase in funding costs, or reduced funding supply, which could result in a reduction in business activity. In particular, any decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve to discontinue quantitative easing further or by central banks more generally to tighten their monetary policy will likely cause long-term interest rates to increase and accordingly impact the costs of our funding. In addition, negative perceptions concerning our business and prospects could develop as a result of large losses, changes of our credit ratings, a general decline in the level of business activity in the financial services sector, regulatory action, serious employee misconduct or illegal activity, as well as many other reasons outside our control and that we cannot foresee. Since the start of the global financial crisis and continuing through the European sovereign debt crisis, the major credit rating agencies have lowered our credit ratings or placed them on review or watch on multiple occasions. On December 15, 2011, Fitch Ratings announced that it was downgrading our long-term issuer default rating to A+ from AA-, on June 21, 2012, Moody’s Investor Services announced it was downgrading our long-term senior debt rating from A2 to Aa3, and on July 2, 2013, Standard & Poor’s announced that it was downgrading our long-term counterparty credit rating to A from A+. On December 19, 2013, Moody’s affirmed our long-term debt rating but moved the respective rating outlook from stable to negative. Recent credit rating downgrades have not materially affected our borrowing costs. However, any future downgrade could materially affect our funding costs, although we are unable to predict whether this would be the case or the extent of any such effect. The effect would depend on a number of factors including whether a downgrade affects financial institutions across the industry or on a regional basis, or is intended to reflect circumstances specific to us; any actions our senior management may take in advance of or in response to the downgrade; the willingness of counterparties to continue to do business with us; any impact of other market events and the state of the macroeconomic environment more generally. Additionally, under many of the contracts governing derivative instruments to which we are a party, a downgrade could require us to post additional collateral, lead to terminations of contracts with accompanying payment obligations for us or give counterparties additional remedies. We take these effects into account in our liquidity stress testing analysis, as further described in “Management Report: Risk Report: Liquidity Risk: Stress Testing and Scenario Analysis” on pages 190 through 191 of the Financial Report. Regulatory reforms enacted and proposed in response to weaknesses in the financial sector, together with increased regulatory scrutiny more generally, have created significant uncertainty for us and may adversely affect our business and ability to execute our strategic plans. In response to the global financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis, governments, regulatory authorities and others have made and continue to make proposals to reform the regulatory framework for the financial services industry to enhance its resilience against future crises. Legislation has already been enacted and regulations issued in response to some of these proposals. The regulatory framework for financial institutions is likely to undergo further significant change. This creates significant uncertainty for us and the financial industry in general. The wide range of recent actions or current proposals includes, among other things, provisions for more stringent regulatory capital and liquidity standards, restrictions on compensation practices, special bank levies and financial transaction taxes, recovery and resolution powers to intervene in a crisis including “bail-in” of creditors, the creation of a single supervisor and a single resolution mechanism within the eurozone, separation of certain businesses from deposit taking, stress testing and capital planning regimes, heightened reporting requirements, and reforms of derivatives, other financial instruments, investment products and market infrastructures. In addition, regulatory scrutiny under existing laws and regulations has become more intense. The specific effects of a number of new laws and regulations remain uncertain because the drafting and implementation of these laws and regulations are still on-going. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 15 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in how to regulate banks, and this discretion, and the means available to the regulators, have been steadily increasing during recent years. Regulation may be imposed on an ad hoc basis by governments and regulators in response to the ongoing or future crises, and these may especially affect financial institutions such as us that are deemed to be systemically important. For example, exceptional and temporary capital ratios, such as the one mandated by the European Council in October 2011, may be imposed very quickly. In addition, the European Union is in the process of establishing a “banking union” consisting of Germany and members of the eurozone, plus any other EU member states that choose to join. Beginning on November 4, 2014, the ECB will become our main prudential supervisor, and there is uncertainty whether and to what extent this will result in a change to our regulatory environment. In preparation for direct supervision, the ECB is conducting a comprehensive assessment of a sample of EU banks covering at least 50 % of the national banking sector in each EU member state, including Deutsche Bank. The comprehensive assessment, which is expected to be completed by November 2014, consists of (i) a supervisory risk assessment addressing key risks in the banks’ balance sheets, including liquidity, leverage and funding, (ii) an asset quality review examining the asset side of the banks’ balance sheets as of December 31, 2013, and (iii) a stress test, which is meant to complement the asset quality review. The stress test will assess the resilience of a sample of eurozone banks, including us, under a common baseline and an adverse macro-economic scenario. The scenarios will cover the period from 2014 through 2016 and be based upon consolidated year-end 2013 figures. The capital thresholds for the baseline scenario will be 8 % of Common Equity Tier 1 capital and for the adverse scenario 5.5 % of Common Equity Tier 1 capital. Depending on the outcome of the assessment, higher provisions or additional capital requirements may be imposed on us. In addition, the regulators having jurisdiction over us, including the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, “BaFin”) and, in the future, the ECB, have discretion to impose capital deductions on financial institutions for operational risks that are not otherwise recognized in risk-weighted assets or other surcharges depending on the individual situation of the bank. Furthermore, any prospective changes in accounting standards, such as those imposing stricter or more extensive requirements to carry assets at fair value, could also have uncertain impacts on our capital needs. Regulatory and legislative changes will require us to maintain increased capital and may significantly affect our business model and the competitive environment. Any perceptions in the market that we may be unable to meet our capital requirements with an adequate buffer, or that we should maintain capital in excess of the requirements, could intensify the effect of these factors on our business and results. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published a set of comprehensive changes to the capital adequacy framework, known as Basel 3, which have been implemented into European Union law by a legislative package referred to as “CRD 4”. CRD 4 became effective on January 1, 2014, with some provisions being gradually phased in through 2019. CRD 4 contains, among other things, detailed rules on regulatory banking capital, increased capital requirements and the introduction of additional capital buffers (which will increase from year to year) as well as tightened liquidity standards and the introduction of a non-risk based leverage ratio. We expect to be subject to additional capital buffers, including as a result of being designated a globally systemically important financial institution, or “SIFI”. In addition, in July 2013, U.S. federal bank regulators issued final rules implementing many elements of the Basel 3 framework and other U.S. capital reforms. We may not have sufficient capital to meet these increasing regulatory requirements. This could occur due to regulatory and other changes, such as the gradual phase out as qualifying Additional Tier 1 (or AT1) capital of our hybrid capital instruments, and due to any substantial losses we were to incur, which would reduce our retained earnings, a component of Common Equity Tier 1 capital (which has replaced Core Tier 1 capital now Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 16 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F that CRD 4 has become effective), or due to a combination of these factors. In addition, we may be unable to issue Additional Tier 1 capital instruments through the capital markets to replace our hybrid capital instruments as they are being gradually phased out. As a result, our future leverage ratio under CRR/CRD 4 may be substantially lower than the adjusted pro forma CRR/CRD 4 leverage ratio we have published. This ratio reflects, as of December 31, 2013, the € 11.3 billion of hybrid capital securities that continued to qualify under the CRR/CRD 4 phase-in rules as of that date but that will be phased out of our regulatory capital. If we are unable to build up capital buffers as required by CRD 4, we may become subject to restrictions on the pay-out of dividends, share buybacks and discretionary compensation payments. In addition, any requirement to increase capital ratios could lead us to adopt a strategy focusing on capital preservation and creation over revenue generation and profit growth, in particular involving the reduction in higher margin risk-weighted assets. If we are unable to increase our capital ratios to the regulatory minimum in such a case or by raising new capital through the capital markets, through the reduction of risk-weighted assets or through other means, then we may be required to activate our group recovery plan. If these actions or other private or supervisory actions do not restore capital buffers required by CRD 4, and we are at risk to become insolvent (which risk will be presumed if our capital and liquidity buffers fall below a certain level), the BaFin may resolve or restructure Deutsche Bank using the powers under the 2010 German Restructuring Act and other laws. This would involve a significant restructuring of the bank, to preserve the continuity of critical economic functions, including the transfer of certain business activities to a bridge bank and the liquidation of the remaining assets or a forced capital injection. This could lead to significant dilution of our shareholders, and regulators would likely impose additional operational and other limitations or obligations on our business as a result of entering resolution or restructuring. A recently adopted rule in the United States will also subject our U.S. operations to additional and more stringent risk-based and leverage capital requirements, liquidity requirements, and other prudential requirements. On February 18, 2014, the U.S. Federal Reserve Board adopted a rule that will impose enhanced prudential standards on our U.S. operations. The rule will also require us to organize virtually all of our U.S. subsidiaries under a top-tier U.S. intermediate holding company that will be subject to U.S. capital requirements (including many elements of the Basel 3 framework as implemented by rules issued by U.S. federal banking regulators in July 2013), capital stress testing, U.S. liquidity buffer requirements and other enhanced prudential standards comparable to those applicable to top-tier U.S. bank holding companies of a similar size. The rule requirements generally take effect in July 2016. Existing bank holding company subsidiaries of foreign banking organizations, such as Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation, will be subject to certain enhanced prudential standards beginning in January 2015 until an intermediate holding company subject to enhanced prudential standards is formed or designated. Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation will become subject to capital plan and stress testing requirements on June 30, 2014. These various requirements could require us to reduce assets held in the United States, inject capital into or otherwise change the structure of our U.S. operations. To the extent that we are required to reduce operations in the United States or deploy capital in the United States that could be deployed more profitably elsewhere, the rule could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the U.S. Federal Reserve Board and other U.S. regulators issued for public comment in October 2013 a proposed rule that would introduce a quantitative liquidity coverage ratio requirement on certain large banks and bank holding companies. The comment period for this rule closed on January 31, 2014. The proposed liquidity coverage ratio is broadly consistent with the Basel Committee’s revised Basel 3 liquidity rules, but is more stringent in several important respects. The Federal Reserve Board has also stated that it intends, through future rulemakings, to apply the Basel 3 liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio to the U.S. operations of some or all large foreign banking organizations. Any increased capital requirements, including those described above, could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on perceptions in the market of our stability, particularly if any such proposal becomes effective and results in our having to raise capital at a time when financial markets are distressed. If these regulatory requirements must be implemented more quickly than currently foreseen, we may decide that the quickest and most reliable path to compliance is to reduce the level of assets on our balance sheet, dispose of divisions or separate out certain activities or reduce or close down Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 17 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F certain business lines. The effects on our capital raising efforts in such a case could be amplified due to the expectation that our competitors, at least those subject to the same or similar capital requirements, would likely also be required to raise capital at the same time. Moreover, some of our competitors, particularly those outside the European Union, may not face the same or similar regulations, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition to these regulatory initiatives, market sentiment may encourage financial institutions such as us to maintain even more capital beyond regulatory-mandated minima, which could exacerbate the effects on us described above or, if we do not increase our capital to the encouraged levels, could lead to the perception in the market that we are undercapitalized relative to our peers generally. New rules in the United States, recent legislation in Germany and proposals in the European Union regarding the prohibition of proprietary trading or its separation from the deposit-taking business may materially affect our business model. On December 10, 2013, U.S. regulators released the final version of the rules implementing the “Volcker Rule”, a regulatory provision required by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. The final rules prohibit U.S. insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with U.S. insured depository institutions (such as us) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options on these instruments, for their own account. The final rules also impose limits on investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds or private equity funds. The Federal Reserve Board extended the end of the conformance period for the Volcker Rule until July 21, 2015, by which time financial institutions subject to the rule must have brought their activities and investments into compliance. During the conformance period, we will analyze the final rule, assess how it will affect our businesses and devise an appropriate compliance strategy. In addition, the German Act on the Separation of Risks and Recovery and Resolution Planning for Credit Institutions and Banking Groups, referred to as the “Separation Act”, was promulgated in August 2013. The Separation Act regulates the activities of banks that take deposits or other repayable funds from the public and lend them for their own account (referred to as “CRR Banks”). CRR Banks will be required to transfer certain activities deemed to be high risk to a financial trading institution, which may be established within the same banking group, if certain independence requirements are met. We will be required to determine the scope of activities to be separated by July 1, 2015 in conjunction with the competent authority, and will be required to implement separation by July 1, 2016. Such separation may result in higher financing costs for the separated activities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, it is yet unclear which business operations would be required to be separated. The BaFin has been granted broad discretion in this respect. On January 29, 2014, the European Commission published a draft Regulation on Structural Measures Improving the Resilience of EU Banks and Transparency of the Financial Sector, referred to as the “Proposed Regulation”, which, if enacted as proposed, would prohibit certain large banks from engaging in proprietary trading in financial instruments and commodities and investing in hedge funds or other entities that engage in proprietary trading, for the sole purpose of making a profit for its own account. The Proposed Regulation would also grant supervisors broad powers to require these banks to separate certain activities deemed to be high risk from other businesses, such as deposit-taking and lending. The Proposed Regulation is currently being discussed at the European level and might overrule certain requirements set out in the Separation Act at the national level. The Volcker Rule, the Separation Act and the Proposed Regulation may have significant implications for the future structure and strategy of our Group, and may increase our Group’s funding costs. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 18 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F Proposed European legislation and existing German legislation regarding the recovery and resolution of banks and investment firms may result in regulatory consequences that could limit our business operations and lead to higher refinancing costs. The Separation Act contains, in addition to the rules relating to the separation of trading activities, rules on the preparation of recovery and resolution plans for banks, such as us, that are deemed systemically important to the German economy. The Separation Act in particular grants additional powers to the BaFin to eliminate impediments to a bank’s resolution. The BaFin’s exercise of these powers could affect our business activities or our legal or operational structure. The Separation Act preempts in part the implementation into German law of the European directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, referred to as the RRD, on a draft of which the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament agreed on December 20, 2013. The RRD, in addition to the rules and requirements set forth in the Separation Act, provides for the power of the resolution authority to write down certain eligible unsecured liabilities, or to convert such liabilities into equity, commonly referred to as “bail-in”. In order to facilitate these bail-in powers, which are expected to become effective under the RRD from January 1, 2016 onwards, banks may be required to include in their eligible liabilities issued outside the EU conditions that recognize the powers to write down or convert debt. The bail-in powers and such conditions could result in increased refinancing costs. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other regulatory reforms adopted or proposed in the wake of the financial crisis – for example, extensive new regulations governing our derivatives activities, bank levies or a possible financial transaction tax – may materially increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business model. On August 16, 2012, the EU Regulation on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, referred to as EMIR, entered into force. While a number of the compliance requirements introduced by EMIR already apply, the European Securities and Markets Authority is still in the process of finalizing several of the implementing rules mandated by EMIR. EMIR introduced a number of requirements, including clearing obligations for certain classes of OTC derivatives and various reporting and disclosure obligations. Although some of the particular effects brought about by EMIR may not yet be foreseeable, many of its elements may lead to changes which may negatively impact our profit margins, require us to adjust our business practices or increase our costs (including compliance costs). The proposed Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (which will comprise a regulation (MiFIR) and a directive (MiFID)) which was provisionally agreed in January 2014 will also, when enacted, introduce a trading obligation for those OTC derivatives which are subject to mandatory clearing and which are sufficiently standardised. We will also be impacted by the BCBS-IOSCO final minimum standards for margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives, for which enabling legislation exists in the EU (EMIR) but where much of the impact depends on how these requirements are implemented in detailed rule-making. These will not be fully phased in until 2019. In the United States, the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 has numerous provisions that may affect our operations. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, we and certain of our affiliates and subsidiaries registered as swap dealers and became subject to extensive oversight by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Regulation of swap dealers by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission imposes numerous corporate governance, business conduct, capital, margin, reporting, clearing, execution and other regulatory requirements on us. It also requires us to apply U.S. rules in some circumstances to transactions conducted outside of the United States. Although the coverage of EMIR and the Dodd Frank Act is in many ways similar, certain swaps may be subject to both regulatory regimes to a significant extent. The new requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect our derivatives business and make us less competitive, especially as compared to competitors not subject to such regulation. Although many significant regulations applicable to swap dealers are already in effect, we are unable at this time to determine the full impact of these requirements because some of the most important rules, such as margin requirements, have not yet been implemented. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 19 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F In addition, CRD 4 provides for executive compensation reforms including caps on bonuses that may be awarded to “risk takers” as defined in CRD 4. The compensation reforms of CRD 4 could put us at a disadvantage to our competitors in attracting and retaining talented employees, especially compared to those outside the European Union that are not subject to these caps. Bank levies also have been introduced in some countries including Germany and the United Kingdom and are still under discussion in a number of other countries. We accrued € 247 million for the German and U.K. bank levies in 2011, € 213 million in 2012, and € 197 million in 2013, primarily recognized in Consolidation & Adjustments. Furthermore, the European Union contemplates the introduction of a bank-funded European resolution fund, which will likely replace national resolution funds such as the German restructuring fund. There may also be changes to the German deposit guarantee scheme to introduce new annual contributions. The impact of these future levies cannot currently be quantified and they may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. Separately, on January 22, 2013, the Council of the European Union adopted a decision authorizing eleven member states (Austria, Belgium, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain) to proceed with the introduction of a financial transaction tax under the European Union’s “enhanced cooperation procedure”. The European Commission adopted a draft directive for the implementation of the financial transaction tax on February 14, 2013. In order to be implemented, all participating member states have to agree the directive unanimously. While we expect progress towards agreement during 2014, the final scope, design and entry into force of the financial transaction tax are very uncertain. Depending on the final details, the proposed financial transaction tax could have a materially negative effect on our profits and business. National financial transaction taxes have already been proposed or implemented in a number of European jurisdictions, including France and Italy, and these taxes may result in compliance costs as well as market consequences which may affect our revenues. Adverse market conditions, historically low prices, volatility and cautious investor sentiment have affected and may in the future materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits, particularly in our investment banking, brokerage and other commission- and fee-based businesses. As a result, we have in the past incurred and may in the future incur significant losses from our trading and investment activities. As a global investment bank, we have significant exposure to the financial markets and are more at risk from adverse developments in the financial markets than are institutions engaged predominantly in traditional banking activities. Sustained market declines have in the past caused and can in the future cause our revenues to decline, and, if we are unable to reduce our expenses at the same pace, can cause our profitability to erode or cause us to show material losses. Volatility can also adversely affect us, by causing the value of financial assets we hold to decline or the expense of hedging our risks to rise. Reduced customer activity can also lead to lower revenues in our “flow” business. Specifically, our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, directly relate to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and are susceptible to adverse effects from sustained market downturns. These fees and other income are generally linked to the value of the underlying transactions and therefore can decline with asset values. In addition, periods of market decline and uncertainty tend to dampen client appetite for market and credit risk, a critical driver of transaction volumes and investment banking revenues, especially transactions with higher margins. In late 2013 and at other times in the past, decreased client appetite for risk has led to lower results in our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division. Our revenues and profitability could sustain material adverse effects from a significant reduction in the number or size of debt and equity offerings and merger and acquisition transactions. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 20 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F Market downturns also have led and may in the future lead to declines in the volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and, therefore, to declines in our noninterest income. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients’ portfolios are in many cases based on the value or performance of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals reduces the revenues we receive from our asset management and private banking businesses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market or negative performance by our investment funds may result in increased withdrawals and reduced inflows, which would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management business. While our clients would be responsible for losses we incur in taking positions for their accounts, we may be exposed to additional credit risk as a result of their need to cover the losses where we do not hold adequate collateral or cannot realize it. Our business may also suffer if our clients lose money and we lose the confidence of clients in our products and services. In addition, the revenues and profits we derive from many of our trading and investment positions and our transactions in connection with them can be directly and negatively impacted by market prices, which have been volatile in recent years. In each of the product and business lines in which we enter into these trading and investment positions, part of our business entails making assessments about the financial markets and trends in them. When we own assets, market price declines can expose us to losses. Many of the more sophisticated transactions of our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division and our Non-Core Operations Unit are designed to profit from price movements and differences among prices. If prices move in a way we have not anticipated, we may experience losses. Also, when markets are volatile, the assessments we have made may prove to lead to lower revenues or profits, or may lead to losses, on the related transactions and positions. In addition, we commit capital and take market risk to facilitate certain capital markets transactions; doing so can result in losses as well as income volatility. Such losses may especially occur on assets we hold for which there are not very liquid markets initially. Assets that are not traded on stock exchanges or other public trading markets, such as derivatives contracts between banks, may have values that we calculate using models other than publicly-quoted prices. Monitoring the deterioration of prices of assets like these is difficult and could lead to losses we did not anticipate. We can also be adversely affected if general perceptions of risk cause uncertain investors to remain on the sidelines of the market, curtailing their activity and in turn reducing the levels of activity in those of our businesses dependent on transaction flow. In order to address concerns about recent market and regulatory developments in addition to greatly increased costs of risk, we announced our Strategy 2015+. If we are unable to implement our new strategy successfully, we may be unable to achieve our financial objectives, or incur losses or low profitability, and our share price may be materially and adversely affected. In mid-2012, we conducted a strategic review of our business focused on adapting it to the current difficult economic and regulatory environment. As a result of this review, in September 2012, we published our strategic and financial aspirations for 2015 in our Strategy 2015+. As part of this, we announced financial objectives for the Group and our operating businesses for 2015, which were based on a number of key assumptions regarding economic, business and regulatory conditions. To support these aspirations, we launched a number of strategic initiatives, including the creation of an integrated Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management division that includes former Corporate Banking & Securities businesses such as exchange-traded funds (ETFs), the launch of an Operational Excellence (OpEx) Programm aimed at achieving major reductions in costs, duplication and complexity in the years ahead, and the creation of a Non-Core Operations Unit, the purpose of which is to accelerate de-risking through coordinating activities across Deutsche Bank to dispose of non-core assets. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 21 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F If we fail to implement our strategic initiatives in whole or in part or should the initiatives that are implemented fail to produce the anticipated benefits, or should the costs we incur to implement our initiatives exceed the € 4.0 billion we have anticipated, we may fail to achieve our financial objectives, or incur losses or low profitability, and our share price may be materially and adversely affected. A number of internal and external factors could prevent the implementation of these initiatives or the realization of their anticipated benefits, including the reignition of the European sovereign debt crisis, the recurrence of extreme turbulence in the markets in which we are active, weakness of global, regional and national economic conditions, regulatory changes that increase our costs (i.e., CRD 4-induced changes to compensation) or restrict our activities and increased investment required to be competitive. Our non-traditional credit businesses materially add to our traditional banking credit risks. As a bank and provider of financial services, we are exposed to the risk that third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. Many of the businesses we engage in beyond the traditional banking businesses of deposit-taking and lending also expose us to credit risk. In particular, much of the business we conduct through our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division and our Non-Core Operations Unit entails credit transactions, frequently ancillary to other transactions. Nontraditional sources of credit risk can arise, for example, from holding securities of third parties; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades that fail to settle at the required time due to nondelivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries; and extending credit through other arrangements. Parties to these transactions, such as trading counterparties, may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, political and economic events, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Many of our derivative transactions are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position difficult. Certain credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold, and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation. This could cause us to forfeit the payments otherwise due to us or result in settlement delays, which could damage our reputation and ability to transact future business, as well as increased costs to us. Recently enacted legislation in the European Union (EMIR) and the U.S. (the Dodd-Frank Act) has introduced requirements for the standardization, margining, central clearing and transaction reporting of certain over-the-counter derivatives. While such requirements are aimed at reducing the risk posed to counterparties and the financial system by such derivatives, they may reduce the volume and profitability of the transactions in which we engage, and compliance with such provisions may impose substantial costs on us. The exceptionally difficult market conditions experienced since the global financial crisis erupted severely adversely affected certain areas in which we do business that entail nontraditional credit risks, including the leveraged finance and structured credit markets, and may do so in the future. We have incurred losses, and may incur further losses, as a result of changes in the fair value of our financial instruments. A substantial proportion of the assets and liabilities on our balance sheet comprise financial instruments that we carry at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the income statement. Fair value is defined as the price at which an asset or liability could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. If the value of an asset carried at fair value declines (or the value of a liability carried at fair value increases) a corresponding unfavorable change in fair value is recognized in the income statement. These changes have been and could in the future be significant. Additionally, in recent periods there has been a significant difference between fair value and book value for some assets. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 22 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F Observable prices or inputs are not available for certain classes of financial instruments. Fair value is determined in these cases using valuation techniques we believe to be appropriate for the particular instrument. The application of valuation techniques to determine fair value involves estimation and management judgment, the extent of which will vary with the degree of complexity of the instrument and liquidity in the market. Management judgment is required in the selection and application of the appropriate parameters, assumptions and modeling techniques. If any of the assumptions change due to negative market conditions or for other reasons, subsequent valuations may result in significant changes in the fair values of our financial instruments, requiring us to record losses. Our exposure and related changes in fair value are reported net of any fair value gains we may record in connection with hedging transactions related to the underlying assets. However, we may never realize these gains, and the fair value of the hedges may change in future periods for a number of reasons, including as a result of deterioration in the credit of our hedging counterparties. Such declines may be independent of the fair values of the underlying hedged assets or liabilities and may result in future losses. Our risk management policies, procedures and methods leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks, which could lead to material losses. We have devoted significant resources to developing our risk management policies, procedures and assessment methods and intend to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, the risk management techniques and strategies have not been and may in the future not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our quantitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to arrive at quantifications of our risk exposures. During the financial crisis, the financial markets experienced unprecedented levels of volatility (rapid changes in price direction) and the breakdown of historically observed correlations (the extent to which prices move in tandem) across asset classes, compounded by extremely limited liquidity. In this volatile market environment, our risk management tools and metrics failed to predict some of the losses we experienced, particularly in 2008, and may in the future fail to predict important risk exposures. In addition, our quantitative modeling does not take all risks into account and makes numerous assumptions regarding the overall environment, which may not be borne out by events. As a result, risk exposures have arisen and could continue to arise from factors we did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in our statistical models. This has limited and could continue to limit our ability to manage our risks especially in light of the European sovereign debt crisis, many of the outcomes of which are currently unforeseeable. Our losses thus have been and may continue to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our more qualitative approach to managing those risks not taken into account by our quantitative methods could also prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. Also, if existing or potential customers or counterparties believe our risk management is inadequate, they could take their business elsewhere or seek to limit their transactions with us. This could harm our reputation as well as our revenues and profits. See “Management Report: Risk Report” beginning on page 55 of the Financial Report for a more detailed discussion of the policies, procedures and methods we use to identify, monitor and manage our risks. We operate in an increasingly regulated and litigious environment, potentially exposing us to liability and other costs, the amounts of which may be difficult to estimate. The financial services industry is among the most highly regulated industries. Our operations throughout the world are regulated and supervised by the central banks and regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. In recent years, regulation and supervision in a number of areas has increased, and regulators, counterparties and others have sought to subject financial services providers to increasing responsibilities and liabilities. This trend has accelerated markedly as a result of the global financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis. As a result, we may further be subject to an increasing incidence or amount of liability or regulatory sanctions and may further be required to make greater expenditures and devote additional resources to address potential liability. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 23 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F Due to the nature of our business, we and our subsidiaries are involved in litigation, arbitration and regulatory proceedings and investigations in jurisdictions around the world. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. We may settle litigation or regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgment or determination of liability. We may do so to avoid the cost, management efforts or negative business, regulatory or reputational consequences of continuing to contest liability, even when we believe we have valid defenses to liability. We may also do so when the potential consequences of failing to prevail would be disproportionate to the costs of settlement. Furthermore, we may, for similar reasons, reimburse counterparties for their losses even in situations where we do not believe that we are legally compelled to do so. The financial impact of legal risks might be considerable but may be hard or impossible to estimate and to quantify, so that amounts eventually paid may exceed the amount of provisions made for such risks. See “Item 8: Financial Information – Legal Proceedings” and Note 29 “Provisions” to our consolidated financial statements for information on our legal, regulatory and arbitration proceedings. We are currently the subject of regulatory and criminal industry-wide investigations relating to interbank offered rates, as well as civil actions. Due to a number of uncertainties, including those related to the high profile of the matters and other banks’ settlement negotiations, the eventual outcome of these matters is unpredictable, and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We have received subpoenas and requests for information from various regulatory and law enforcement agencies in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific in connection with industry-wide investigations concerning the setting of London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR), Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR) and other interbank offered rates. We are cooperating with these investigations. The investigations underway have the potential to result in the imposition of significant financial penalties and other consequences for the Bank. On December 4, 2013, Deutsche Bank announced that it had reached a settlement with the European Commission as part of a collective settlement to resolve the European Commission’s investigations in relation to anticompetitive conduct in the trading of Euro interest rate derivatives and Yen interest rate derivatives. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Deutsche Bank agreed to pay € 725 million in total. We remain exposed to civil litigation and further regulatory action relating to these benchmarks. In addition, a number of civil actions, including putative class actions, are pending in federal court in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and in other federal district courts against us and numerous other banks. All but two of these actions are filed on behalf of certain parties who allege that they held or transacted in U.S. Dollar LIBOR-based derivatives or other financial instruments and sustained losses as a result of collusion or manipulation by the defendants regarding the setting of U.S. Dollar LIBOR. Regulators are also investigating numerous financial institutions in addition to us, and as details of these investigations and their findings have become public, the reported actions of some financial institutions have attracted substantial attention in the media and the markets, leading to further reputational risk for institutions like us that are currently subject to similar inquiries. In the period from mid-2012 to early 2014, four financial institutions entered into settlements with the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (formerly the Financial Services Authority), U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). While the terms of the various settlements differed, they all involved significant financial penalties and regulatory consequences. For example, two financial institutions’ settlements included a Deferred Prosecution Agreement, pursuant to which the DOJ agreed to defer prosecution of criminal charges against the applicable entity provided that the financial institution satisfies the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. The terms of the other financial institutions’ settlements included Non-Prosecution Agreements, pursuant to which the DOJ agreed not to file criminal charges against the entities so long as certain conditions are met. In addition, affiliates of two of the financial institutions agreed to plead guilty to a crime in a United States court for related conduct. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 24 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F Because many of the various investigations and civil actions are still in their early stages, we cannot predict the effect on us of the interbank offered rates matters, which could include fines levied by government bodies, damages from private litigation for which we may be liable and regulatory consequences. This uncertainty is further exacerbated by several factors outside of our control, such as the high profile of these matters and the contours of other financial institutions’ settlement negotiations. In addition, regulatory and law enforcement authorities may make assessments about the conduct of institutions in the industry as a whole and impose additional regulatory or supervisory burdens on us. Any fines, damages or regulatory consequences may have a material adverse effect, beyond provisions taken, on our results of operations, financial condition or reputation. We have been subject to contractual claims and litigation in respect of our U.S. residential mortgage loan business that may materially and adversely affect our results or reputation. From 2005 through 2008, as part of our U.S. residential mortgage loan business, we sold approximately U.S. $ 84 billion of loans into private label securitizations and U.S. $ 71 billion through whole loan sales. We have been, and in the future may be, presented with demands to repurchase loans from or to indemnify purchasers, investors or financial insurers with respect to losses allegedly caused by material breaches of representations and warranties. Our general practice is to process valid repurchase claims that are presented in compliance with contractual rights. As of December 31, 2013, we have approximately U.S. $ 5.0 billion of mortgage repurchase demands outstanding and not subject to agreements to rescind (based on original principal balance of the loans). Against these outstanding demands, we have established provisions of U.S. $ 475 million (€ 345 million) as of December 31, 2013. As with provisions generally, however, it is possible that the provisions we have established may ultimately be insufficient, either with respect to particular claims or with respect to the full set of claims that have been or may be presented. There are other potential mortgage repurchase demands that we anticipate may be made, but we cannot reliably estimate their timing or amount. As of December 31, 2013, we have completed repurchases, obtained agreements to rescind or otherwise settled claims on loans with an original principal balance of approximately U.S. $ 4.4 billion. In connection with those repurchases, agreements and settlements, we have obtained releases for potential claims on approximately U.S. $ 64.5 billion of loans sold by us as described above. From 2005 through 2008, we or our affiliates have also acted as an underwriter of approximately U.S. $ 105 billion of U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities (referred to as “RMBS”) for third-party originators. As is the case with a significant number of other participants in the mortgage securitizations market and as described in Note 29 “Provisions” to our consolidated financial statements, we have received subpoenas and requests for information from certain regulators and government entities concerning our RMBS businesses. We are cooperating fully in response to those subpoenas and requests for information. We have a number of pending lawsuits against us or our affiliates as issuer and/or underwriter of RMBS. Such pending RMBS litigations are in various stages up through discovery and we continue to defend these actions vigorously. Legal and regulatory proceedings are subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. Operational risks may disrupt our businesses. We face operational risk arising from errors, inadvertent or intentional, made in the execution, confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated or accounted for. An example of this risk concerns our derivative contracts, which are not always confirmed with the counterparties on a timely basis. For so long as the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. The European sovereign debt crisis and the global financial crisis, in which the risk of counterparty default has increased, have increased the possibility that this operational risk materializes. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 25 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F In addition, our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process manually or through our systems a large number of transactions on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies, and certain transactions we process are complex. Consequently, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems that include manual processing components. If any of these processes or systems do not operate properly, or are disabled, or subject to intentional or inadvertent human error, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We in particular face the risk of loss events due to the instability, malfunction or outage of our IT system and IT infrastructure. Such losses could materially affect our ability to perform business processes and may, for example, arise from the erroneous or delayed execution of processes as either a result of system outages or degraded services in systems and IT applications. A delay in processing a transaction, for example, could result in an operational loss if market conditions worsen during the period after the error. IT-related errors may also result in the mishandling of confidential information, damage to our computer systems, financial losses, additional costs for repairing systems, reputational damage, customer dissatisfaction or potential regulatory or litigation exposure. We operate in many geographic locations and are frequently subject to the occurrence of events outside of our control. Despite the contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business in any of these locations may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business in that location, whether as a result of, for example, events that affect our third party vendors or the communities in which we operate. Such disruptions could affect public infrastructure in these locations. Any number of events could cause such a disruption, including deliberate acts such as sabotage, terrorist activities, bomb threats, strikes, riots and assaults on our staff; natural calamities such as hurricanes, snow storms, floods, disease pandemic and earthquakes; or other unforeseen incidents such as accidents, fires, explosions, utility outages, and political unrest. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. Our businesses are also exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions, litigation and serious reputational or financial harm. Such misconduct may include in the future the theft of proprietary information, including proprietary software. In recent years, a number of multinational financial institutions have suffered material losses due to the actions of “rogue traders” or other employees. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of the systems or misconduct by the employees of such parties. Many of the risks described above apply equally when we rely on outside suppliers or vendors to provide services to us or our customers. Our operational systems are subject to an increasing risk of cyber attacks and other internet crime, which could result in material losses of client or customer information, damage our reputation and lead to regulatory penalties and financial losses. Among the operational risks we face is the risk of breaches of the security of our computer systems due to unauthorized access to networks or resources, the introduction of computer viruses or malware, or other forms of cyber attack or internet crime. Such breaches could threaten the confidentiality of our clients’ data and the integrity of our systems. We devote significant resources toward the protection of our computer systems against such breaches. To address the evolving cyber threat risk, we are currently expending significant additional resources to modify and enhance our protective measures and to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Nevertheless, a residual risk remains that such measures may not be effective against all threats. Given our global footprint and the volume of transactions we process, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 26 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F We and other financial institutions have experienced attacks on computer systems, including attacks aimed at obtaining unauthorized access to confidential company or customer information or damaging or interfering with company data, resources or business activities. Although we have to date not experienced any material loss of data from these attacks, it is possible, given the use of new technologies and increasing reliance on the Internet and the varying nature and evolving sophistication of such attacks, that we may not be able to effectively anticipate and prevent all such attacks. A successful attack could have a significant negative impact on us, including as a result of disclosure or misappropriation of confidential information, damage to computer systems, financial losses, additional costs to us (such as for investigation and reestablishing services), reputational damage, customer dissatisfaction and potential regulatory or litigation exposure. The size of our clearing operations exposes us to a heightened risk of material losses should these operations fail to function properly. We have large clearing and settlement businesses and an increasingly complex and interconnected IT landscape. These give rise to the risk that we, our customers or other third parties could lose substantial sums if our systems fail to operate properly for even short periods. This will be the case even where the reason for the interruption is external to us. In such a case, we might suffer harm to our reputation even if no material amounts of money are lost. This could cause customers to take their business elsewhere, which could materially harm our revenues and profits. We may have difficulty in identifying and executing acquisitions, and both making acquisitions and avoiding them could materially harm our results of operations and our share price. We consider business combinations from time to time. Even though we review the companies we plan to acquire, it is generally not feasible for these reviews to be complete in all respects. As a result, we may assume unanticipated liabilities, or an acquisition may not perform as well as expected. Were we to announce or complete a significant business combination transaction, our share price could decline significantly if investors viewed the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve our competitive position. In addition, we might have difficulty integrating any entity with which we combine our operations. Failure to complete announced business combinations or failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into ours could materially and adversely affect our profitability. It could also affect investors’ perception of our business prospects and management, and thus cause our share price to fall. It could also lead to departures of key employees, or lead to increased costs and reduced profitability if we felt compelled to offer them financial incentives to remain. The effects of the takeover of Deutsche Postbank AG may differ materially from our expectations. Deutsche Postbank AG (together with its subsidiaries, “Postbank”) became a consolidated, majority-owned subsidiary of ours in December 2010 following a public takeover offer by us. In June 2012 Deutsche Postbank AG and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG entered into a domination and profit and loss transfer agreement, which became incontestably valid in September 2012. As a result, we have general control over the management of Postbank. The effects of this acquisition on us may differ materially from our expectations. Our estimates of the synergies and other benefits that we expect to realize, and the costs that we might incur, as a result of this acquisition involve subjective assumptions and judgments that are subject to significant uncertainties. Moreover, Postbank’s securities portfolio contains products that may also be subject to material further decreases in value. Furthermore, unforeseen difficulties may emerge in connection with the integration of Postbank’s business, including potential difficulties due to integration of IT systems and personnel, different internal standards and business procedures, the commitment of management resources in connection with the integration process and the potential loss of key personnel. The benefits, synergies, costs and timeframe of the integration could be adversely affected by any of these factors, as well as by a variety of factors that are partially or entirely beyond our and Postbank’s control, such as negative market developments. Any failure to integrate Postbank’s operations on a timely and efficient basis could have a material adverse effect on our net assets, financial condition and results of operations. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 27 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F We may have difficulties selling non-core assets at favorable prices or at all and may experience material losses from these assets and other investments irrespective of market developments. We may seek to sell certain non-core assets, including those of our Non-Core Operations Unit. Such sales may be made as part of our strategy to meet or exceed the new capital requirements by reducing risk-weighted assets and thereby improving our capital ratios. This strategy may prove difficult in the current market environment as many of our competitors are also seeking to dispose of assets to improve their capital ratios. Unfavorable business or market conditions may make it difficult for us to sell such assets at favorable prices, or may preclude such a sale altogether. If the measures announced in response to the European sovereign debt crisis prove inadequate to calm market concern or if the European debt crisis otherwise reignites, we may experience difficulty in obtaining funding in a manner permitting us to conduct our business without needing to dispose of significant volumes of assets. In addition, we have made significant investments in individual companies and have other assets that are not part of our core business such as our stakes in The Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas and Maher Terminals. Losses and risks from those assets and at those companies may restrict our ability to sell our shareholdings and may reduce the value of our holdings considerably, potentially impacting our financial statements or earnings, even where general market conditions are favorable. Our larger, less liquid interests are particularly vulnerable given the size of these exposures. Any potential write-down for any such investment could further negatively affect our business. Intense competition, in our home market of Germany as well as in international markets, could materially adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Competition is intense in all of our primary business areas, in Germany as well as in international markets. If we are unable to respond to the competitive environment in these markets with attractive product and service offerings that are profitable for us, we may lose market share in important areas of our business or incur losses on some or all of our activities. In addition, downturns in the economies of these markets could add to the competitive pressure, through, for example, increased price pressure and lower business volumes for us. In recent years there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among financial services companies, culminating in unprecedented consolidations in the course of the global financial crisis. This trend has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our competitors and has hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. As a result, we must compete with financial institutions that may be larger and better capitalized than we are and that may have a stronger position in local markets. Also, governmental action in response to the global financial crisis may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Transactions with counterparties in countries designated by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism or persons targeted by U.S. economic sanctions may lead potential customers and investors to avoid doing business with us or investing in our securities, harm our reputation or result in regulatory action which could materially and adversely affect our business. We engage or have engaged in a limited amount of business with counterparties, including government owned or controlled counterparties, in certain countries which the U.S. State Department has designated as state sponsors of terrorism, including Iran and Cuba (referred to as “Sanctioned Countries”), or with persons targeted by U.S. economic sanctions (referred to as “Sanctioned Persons”). U.S. law generally prohibits U.S. persons or persons acting within U.S. jurisdiction from doing business with Sanctioned Countries or Sanctioned Persons. In addition, U.S. regulations may extend to activities in other geographic areas and by non-U.S. persons depending on the circumstances. Our U.S. subsidiaries, branch offices, and employees are and our non-U.S. subsidiaries, branch offices, and employees may become subject to those prohibitions and other regulations. We are a German bank and our activities with respect to Sanctioned Countries and Sanctioned Persons have been subject to policies and procedures designed to avoid the involvement of persons within U.S. jurisdiction in any managerial or operational role and to ensure compliance with United Nations, European Union and German embargoes; in reflection of legal developments in the last years, we further developed our Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 28 Annual Report 2013 on Form 20-F policies and procedures with the aim of ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements extending to other geographic areas regardless of jurisdiction. However, should our policies prove to have been ineffective, we may be subject to regulatory action that could materially and adversely affect our business. In 2007 and before, our Management Board decided that we will not engage in new business with counterparties in countries such as Iran, Syria, Sudan and North Korea and to exit existing business to the extent legally possible and limit our business with counterparties in Cuba. We have received requests for information from regulatory agencies concerning our historical processing of U.S.-Dollar payment orders through U.S. financial institutions for parties from countries subject to U.S. embargo laws and as to whether such processing complied with U.S. and state laws. We are cooperating with the regulatory agencies. While we cannot with any degree of certainty predict the effect these matters will have on us, they have the potential to result in the imposition of significant financial penalties or have other adverse consequences for us. We had a representative office in Tehran, Iran, which we discontinued at December 31, 2007. Our remaining business with Iranian counterparties consists mostly of participations as lender and/or agent in a few large trade finance facilities arranged some years ago to finance the export contracts of exporters in Europe and Asia. The lifetime of most of these facilities is ten years or more and we are legally obligated to fulfill our contractual obligations. We do not believe our business activities with Iranian counterparties are material to our overall business, with the outstandings to Iranian borrowers representing substantially less than 0.01 % of our total assets as of December 31, 2013 and the revenues from all such activities representing less than 0.02 % of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. In recent years, the United States has taken steps, including the passage of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012, and additional Executive Orders, to further deter foreign companies from dealing with Iran, including by providing for possible sanctions against companies that provide services in support of certain Iranian activity in (among others) the energy, shipping or military sectors or with certain Iranian counterparties. These indirect, or “secondary”, U.S. economic sanctions also target foreign financial institutions that, among other things, facilitate significant transactions with, or provide significant financial services to a wide range of Iranian entities, persons, and financial institutions. We do not believe we have engaged in activities sanctionable under these statutes, but the U.S. authorities have considerable discretion in applying the statutes and any imposition of sanctions against us could be material. It is also possible that direct and secondary sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other jurisdictions could be expanded in the future. Proposals for expanded sanctions have been introduced in Congress and elsewhere in recent months. As required by Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) we have disclosed certain information regarding our activities or transactions with persons subject to U.S. sanctions against Iran and other persons subject to such provision. Such disclosure is set forth in the section of this document entitled “Disclosures Under Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012”, which follows “Item 16H: Mine Safety Disclosure”. We are also engaged in a limited amount of business with counterparties domiciled in Cuba, which is not subject to any United Nations, European Union or German embargo. The business consists of a limited number of non-confirmed letters of credit and of structured export finance transactions and represented substantially less than 0.01 % of our assets as of December 31, 2013. The transactions served to finance commercial products like tools for the sugar industry, and electricity supply, pharmaceutical products and sanitary goods. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank 