ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business:Risks Related To Our OperationsFixed-feeOur fixed-fee business is dependent on our code-share relationships with our Partners.We depend on relationships created by our regional jet fixed-fee code-share agreements with American, Continental, Delta, United and US Airways for all of our fixed-fee service revenues. Any material modification to, or termination of, our 15code-share agreements with any of these Partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of our operations and the price of our common stock. Each of the code-share agreements contains a number of grounds for termination by our Partners, including our failure to meet specified performance levels. In addition, because all of our fixed-fee service revenues are currently generated under the code-share agreements, if any one of them is terminated, we cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into substitute code-share arrangements, that any such substitute arrangements would be as favorable to us as the current code-share agreements or that we could successfully utilize those aircraft in our branded operations.We may be unable to profitably redeploy smaller aircraft removed from service.As of December 31 2011, we have 73 small regional jets (37-50 seat aircraft), 56 of which are operating under code-share agreements. Between May 2012 and February 2013, 23 of these aircraft are scheduled to be removed from fixed-fee operations. The remaining aircraft are expected to be removed between September 2014 and May 2016. In most cases, the term of the aircraft lease or debt agreement exceeds the term of the aircraft under its respective code-share agreement. To the extent that aircraft are removed from service, we must either sell or sublease the aircraft to another party or redeploy it in order to cover our carrying expenses for that aircraft. Our inability to sell, sublease and/or redeploy aircraft that have been removed from fixed-fee service could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.Further, as we review our branded fleet, we may determine that we need to remove regional jets from service. Our inability to profitably redeploy or dispose of these aircraft could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.If the financial strength of any of our Partners decreases, our financial strength is at risk.We are directly affected by the financial and operating strength of the Partners in our fixed-fee regional airline code-share business. In the event of a decrease in the financial or operational strength of any of our Partners, such Partner may be unable to make the payments due to us under its code-share agreement. In addition, it may reduce utilization of our aircraft to the minimum levels specified in the code-share agreements, and it is possible that any code-share agreement with a code-share Partner that files for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code may not be assumed in bankruptcy and could be modified or terminated. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our operations and the price of our common stock. As of February 2, 2012, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, respectively, maintained ratings of B- and Caa1 for US Airways, D and Ca for AMR Corp., the parent of American, B and B2 for Delta, and B and B2 for United Continental Holdings, Inc., the parent of United and Continental.On November 29, 2011 American filed for bankruptcy in the Southern District of New York. Under bankruptcy order American honored our pre-petition receivables, we continue to operate for American under the existing terms of our agreement. American retained its right to reject our fixed-fee agreement, therefore we can provide no assurance that American will continue to operate under the agreement, which if rejected could have an adverse material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.Our Partners may expand their direct operation of aircraft thus limiting the expansion of our relationships with them.We depend on major airlines such as our Partners to contract with us instead of purchasing and operating their own aircraft. However, some major airlines own their own regional airlines and operate their own aircraft instead of entering into contracts with us or other regional carriers. For example, American, Delta, and US Airways have acquired many aircraft which they fly under their affiliated carriers. We have no guarantee that in the future our Partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of purchasing their own aircraft or entering into relationships with competing regional airlines. They are not prohibited from doing so under our code-share agreements. In addition, US Airways previously announced that, pursuant to an agreement with its pilots, US Airways will not enter into agreements with its regional affiliates to fly E190 and higher capacity aircraft and it is possible that our other partners will make the same decision. A decision by US Airways, American, Delta, United, or Continental to phase out our contract based code-share relationships as they expire and instead acquire and operate their own aircraft or to enter into similar agreements with one or more of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.16Our Partners may be restricted in increasing the level of business that they conduct with us, thereby limiting our growth.In general, the pilots' unions of certain major airlines have negotiated “scope clauses” in their collective bargaining agreements, known as CBAs, that restrict the number and/or size of aircraft that can be operated by the regional code-share partners of such major airlines. The US Airways' pilot CBA provides that the total number of aircraft in US Airways operations not flown by US Airways pilots (which includes flying by partners under code-share arrangements) may not exceed 465. Within the overall 465 aircraft limit, there is no quantity limitation on the number of small regional jets (defined as aircraft configured with 78 or fewer seats) that may be flown by regional code-share partners. Also within the 465 total aircraft limit, US Airways can outsource up to 93 aircraft with more than 78, but fewer than 91 seats, including E175 and C900 aircraft. US Airways does not restrict the aircraft that its partners may fly for other carriers.The American Airlines' pilot CBA prohibits regional code-share partners from operating aircraft with more than 50 seats, whether flown on behalf of American or for other carriers.Delta's pilot CBA prohibits its regional code-share partners from operating aircraft with more than 76 seats, whether flown on behalf of Delta or for other carriers. Further, code-share partners may operate no more than 255 aircraft configured with 51 to 76 seats (including 120 aircraft configured with 71 to 76 seats, subject to increase with increases in Delta's fleet size).United's pilot CBA prohibits code-share partners from operating aircraft on behalf of United configured with more than 70 seats or weighing more than 80,000 pounds. However, this limitation does not apply to aircraft flown by the code-share partner on behalf of carriers other than United.Continental's pilot CBA prohibits code-share partners from operating aircraft on behalf of Continental configured with more than 50 seats. However, similar to United's restriction, this limitation does not apply to aircraft flown by the code-share partner on behalf of carriers other than Continental.The airline industry has recently gone through a period of consolidation and transition; consequently, we have fewer potential Partners.Since 1978 and continuing to the present, the airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. We, as well as our Partners, routinely monitor changes in the competitive landscape and engage in analysis and discussions regarding our strategic position, including potential alliances and business combination transactions. Further consolidation could limit the number of potential partners with whom we could enter into code-share relationships. Although none of our contracts with our Partners allow termination or are amendable in the event of consolidation, any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could adversely affect our relationship with our Partners.Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under the fixed-fee agreements would adversely impact our revenues, earnings and liquidity.Our agreements with our Partners require each of them to schedule our aircraft to a minimum level of utilization. However, the aircraft have historically been utilized more than the minimum requirement. Even though the fixed-fee rates may adjust, either up or down, based on scheduled utilization levels or require a fixed amount per day to compensate us for our fixed costs, if our aircraft are at or below the minimum requirement (including taking into account the stage length and frequency of our scheduled flights) we will likely lose both the opportunity to recover a margin on the variable costs of flights that would have been flown if our aircraft were more fully utilized and the opportunity to earn incentive compensation on such flights.The amounts we receive under our code-share agreements may be less than the corresponding costs we incur.Under our code-share agreements we are compensated for certain costs we incur in providing services. With respect to costs that are defined as "pass through" costs, our code-share partner is obligated to pay to us the actual amount of the cost. With respect to other costs, our code-share partner is obligated to pay to us amounts based, in part, on pre-determined rates for certain costs. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 20% of our costs were pass through costs and approximately 80% of our costs were reimbursable at pre-determined rates. These pre-determined rates are not based on the 17actual expenses we incur. If we incur expenses that are greater than the pre-determined amounts payable by our code-share partners, our financial results will be negatively affected. BrandedWe could experience significant operating losses in the future.There are several reasons, including those addressed in these risk factors, why our brand operations mightfail to achieve profitability and might experience significant losses. In particular, a weak economy and the high volatility of fuel prices have had and may continue to have an impact on our operating results, and increase the risk that we will experience losses.We are vulnerable to increases in aircraft fuel costs.High oil prices may have a significant adverse impact on the future results of operations. We cannot predict the future cost and availability of fuel, or the impact of disruptions in oil supplies or refinery productivity based on natural disasters, which would affect our ability to compete. The unavailability of adequate fuel supplies could have an adverse effect on our Frontier operations. In addition, larger airlines may have a competitive advantage because they pay lower prices for fuel, and other airlines, such as Southwest Airlines, may have substantial fuel hedges that give them a competitive advantage. Because fuel costs are now a significant portion of our operating costs, substantial changes in fuel costs can materially affect our operating results and/or cause us to reduce our scheduled operations at Frontier. Fuel prices continue to be susceptible to, among other factors, speculative trading in the commodities market, political unrest in various parts of the world, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries policy, the rapid growth of economies in China and India, the levels of inventory carried by the oil companies, the amount of reserves built by governments, refining capacity, and weather. These and other factors that impact the global supply and demand for aircraft fuel may affect our financial performance due to its high sensitivity to fuel prices. A one-cent change in the cost of each gallon of fuel would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $2.2 million per year based on our current fleet and aircraft fuel consumption.Since the acquisition of Frontier, fuel has become a major component of our branded operating expenses, accounting for 38.8% of our total operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our ability to pass on increased fuel costs has been and may continue to be limited by economic and competitive conditions.We depend heavily on the Denver market to be successful.Our business strategy for Frontier is focused on adding flights to and from our Denver base of operations. As of December 31, 2011, 74% of our flights originate or depart from Denver International Airport, known as DIA. We expect this concentration to increase in 2012. A reduction in our market share, increased competition, or reduced passenger traffic to or from Denver could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our dependence on a hub system operating out of DIA makes us more susceptible to adverse weather conditions and other traffic delays in the Rocky Mountain region than some of our competitors that may be better able to spread these traffic risks over larger route networks. We face intense competition by United Airlines, Southwest Airlines and other airlines at DIA.The airline industry is highly competitive. We compete with United in our hub in Denver, and we anticipate that we will compete with United in any additional markets we elect to serve in the future. United and United's regional airline affiliates are the dominant carriers out of DIA. In addition, Southwest Airlines started service to and from Denver in January 2006 and has grown significantly since then to become the third largest carrier at DIA. Southwest pricing has caused downward pressure on Frontier yields and any future Southwest exposure may place further downward pressure on our revenue. For example, on February 15, 2012, Southwest announced a system-wide fare increase of $10 per round trip ticket, except in Denver. Predatory pricing, and “capacity dumping,” in which a competitor places additional aircraft on selected routes, and other competitive activities could adversely affect us. The future activities of competing branded carriers in DIA and any other focus city from which we operate may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations.Our credit card processors have the ability to increase their holdbacks in certain circumstances. The initiation of such holdbacks may have an adverse effect on our liquidity.In our Frontier business, most of the tickets we sell are paid for by customers who use credit cards. Our credit card processing agreement with Visa and MasterCard generally provide for a 95% holdback of receivables. If circumstances were to occur that would allow our processor to increase their holdbacks, our liquidity would be negatively impacted.18Our acquisition of Midwest and Frontier affects the comparability of our historical financial results.Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 include a full year impact of our Frontier and Midwest acquisitions, while our 2009 results of operations include the results of Midwest for five months and Frontier for three months. This complicates the ability to compare our results of operations and statement of cash flows. We experience high costs at DIA, which impacts our ability to compete for connecting traffic.Our largest hub of flight operations is DIA where we experience high operating costs. DIA depends on landing fees, gate rentals, income from airlines and the traveling public, and other fees to generate income to service its debt and to support its operations. Our cost of operations at DIA will vary as traffic increases or diminishes at the airport or as significant improvement projects are undertaken by the airport. We believe that our operating costs at DIA exceed those that other airlines incur at hub airports in other cities, which translates to a relative higher cost to connect our passengers through Denver. Our ability to expand our operations outside of Denver is dependent on the availability of adequate facilities and other industry constraints.In order to adjust our flight schedule and, where appropriate, add service along new or existing routes, we must be able to obtain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, slots (where applicable) and office space. The nation's aging air traffic control infrastructure presents challenges as well. Also, as airports around the country become more congested, we cannot always be sure that our plans for new service can be implemented in a commercially viable manner given operating constraints at existing or new airports throughout our network.The lack of marketing alliances could harm our Frontier business.Many branded airlines have marketing alliances with other airlines, under which they market and advertise their status as marketing alliance partners. Among other things, they share the use of two-letter flight designator codes to identify their flights and fares in the computerized reservation systems and permit reciprocity in their frequent flyer programs. Frontier does not have an extensive network of marketing partners. The lack of marketing alliances and limited international presence puts us at a competitive disadvantage to global network carriers, whose ability to attract passengers through more widespread alliances, particularly on international routes, may adversely affect our passenger traffic and our results of operations. We rely heavily on automated systems and technology to operate our Frontier business and any failure of these systems could harm our business.We are increasingly dependent on automated systems, information technology personnel and technology to operate our Frontier business, enhance customer service and achieve low operating costs, including our computerized airline reservation system, telecommunication systems, website, check-in kiosks and in-flight entertainment systems. Substantial or repeated system failures to any of the above systems could reduce the attractiveness of our services and could result in our customers purchasing tickets from another airline. Any disruptions in these systems or loss of key personnel could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and generally harm our business. In addition, we have experienced an increase in customers booking flights on our airline through third-party websites, which has increased our distribution costs. If any of these third-party websites experiences system failure or discontinues listing our flights on its systems, our bookings and revenue may be adversely impacted.We implement improvements to our website and reservations system from time to time. Implementation of changes to these systems may cause operational and financial disruptions if we experience transition or system cutover issues, if the new systems do not perform as we expect them to, or if vendors do not deliver systems upgrades or other components on a timely basis. Any such disruptions may have the effect of discouraging some travelers from purchasing tickets from us and increasing our reservations staffing.GeneralAny labor disruption or labor strikes by our employees or those of our Partners would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.All of our pilots, flight attendants, dispatchers, and aircraft appearance agents as well as our mechanics at Frontier are represented by unions. Collectively, these employees represent approximately 56% of our workforce. Although we have never had a work interruption or stoppage and believe our relations with our unionized employees are generally good, we are subject 19to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or may incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on the amended terms of their collective bargaining agreements, we may be subject to work interruptions and/or stoppages. Any sustained work stoppages could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations under our code-share agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.As previously announced on May 3, 2011, we have undertaken a restructuring initiative at Frontier aimed at reducing costs by an aggregate of $120 million. On June 10, 2011, Frontier reached a tentative agreement with the Frontier pilots (the “Pilots”) then represented by the Frontier Airlines Pilot Association ("FAPA"), pursuant to which FAPA agreed in principle to the restructuring of certain wages and benefits. On June 17, 2011, the tentative agreement was ratified by the Pilots.The restructuring agreement included, among other things, (i) the postponement of certain pay increases, (ii) reduced Company contributions to the Pilots' 401(k) plan, (iii) reduced accruals for vacation days and sick days and (iv) an extension of the collective bargaining agreement by two years (collectively, the "Investment"). In exchange for the Investment, the Frontier pilots will receive an equity stake in Frontier valued at $7.2 million, which vests over the term of the agreement. The Company has agreed to certain other conditions which must be met during the term to continue the Investment by the Frontier pilots. Those conditions include aircraft growth at Frontier, a liquidity raise, subject to suitable market conditions, of at least $70 million by the Company through debt offerings, assets sales, or other financings, material execution of Frontier's restructuring program by the end of 2011, and a good faith effort by the Company to attract equity investment(s) in Frontier that would reduce the Company's ownership of Frontier to a minority interest by December 31, 2014. In addition, the Company has agreed to establish a profit sharing program for Frontier employees. As of December 31, 2011, the Company remains in compliance with these conditions.On June 28, 2011, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Airline Division (the "IBT") replaced FAPA as the representative of Frontier pilots when the IBT was certified as the exclusive bargaining representative of the pilots. On August 3, 2011 the IBT filed suit against the Company and Frontier seeking to have the restructuring agreement declared null and void or, alternatively, seeking that the IBT, manage the equity investment of the Frontier pilots and due to accusations that the Company interfered with the election process.We believe that these allegations are baseless and that we did not interfere in the election process, which in fact the IBT won. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves and Frontier against this complaint, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful. If we are not successful and the restructuring agreement with our Frontier pilots is declared null and void, Frontier would lose approximately $9 million to $10 million in annual cost savings on average over the next four years, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Under the terms of our jet code-share agreement with US Airways, if we are unable to provide scheduled flights as a result of a strike by our employees, it is only required to pay us for certain fixed costs for specified periods. Under the terms of the code-share agreements with the remainder of our Partners, none of them are required to pay us any amounts during the period our employees are on strike and we are unable to provide scheduled flights. A sustained strike by our employees would require us to bear costs otherwise paid by our Partners.In addition, a labor disruption other than a union authorized strike may materially impact our results of operations and could cause us to be in material breach of our code-share agreements, all of which require us to meet specified flight completion levels during specified periods. Our Partners have the right to terminate their code-share agreements if we fail to meet these completion levels.Our substantial indebtedness may limit our financial and operating activities and may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.We have substantial indebtedness, which could:•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities;•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment and other obligations under our indebtedness;•limit our ability to borrow additional money for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes, if needed, and increasing the cost of any of these borrowings; and/or •reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business and economic conditions.20In addition, a substantial level of indebtedness, particularly because substantially all of our assets are currently subject to liens, could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We have historically needed substantial liquidity to fund the growth of our fixed-fee business and the operation of our branded business. These liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance and many other factors not within our control.We have significant debt and off-balance sheet obligations and any inability to pay would adversely impact our operations.The airline business is very capital intensive and, as a result, many airline companies are highly leveraged. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our mandatory debt service payments for aircraft totaled $337.6 million and $319.4 million, respectively, and our mandatory lease payments totaled $264.8 million and $233.8 million, respectively. We have significant lease obligations with respect to our aircraft, which aggregated approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010. We have a significant amount of variable interest rate debt. Approximately $365.2 million and $482.7 million of our debt as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, is subject to variable market interest rates. If rates increase significantly, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. We may be unable to continue to comply with financial covenants in certain financing agreements, which, if not complied with, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.We are required to comply with certain financial covenants under certain of our financing arrangements. We are required to maintain $125 million of unrestricted cash, maintain certain cash flow, debt service coverage and working capital covenants. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all our covenants.We currently depend on Embraer and Airbus to support our fleet of aircraft.We rely on Embraer as the manufacturer of substantially all of our regional jets and on Airbus as the manufacturer of our narrow-body jets. Our risks in relying primarily on a single manufacturer for each aircraft type include: •the failure or inability of Embraer or Airbus to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis;•the interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for these aircraft;•the issuance of FAA directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Embraer or Airbus aircraft or requiring time-consuming inspections and maintenance; and •the adverse public perception of a manufacturer as a result of an accident or other adverse publicity. Our operations could be materially adversely affected by the failure or inability of Embraer, Airbus or any key component manufacturers to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis or by an interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for our aircraft.Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, will directly impact our earnings.Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs, and we have experienced pressure to increase wages and benefits for our employees. Under our code-share agreements, our reimbursement rates contemplate labor costs that increase on a set schedule generally tied to an increase in the consumer price index or the actual increase in the contract. We are entirely responsible for our labor costs, and we may not be entitled to receive increased payments for our flights from our Partners if our labor costs increase above the assumed costs included in the reimbursement rates. As a result, a significant increase in our labor costs above the levels assumed in our reimbursement rates could result in a material reduction in our earnings. Many of our employees within our Frontier operations experienced a reduction in pay levels during the Frontier bankruptcy, and agreed to forgo certain increases during the restructuring in 2011. Any restoration of these reductions in pay levels will increase our labor costs. We have collective bargaining agreements with our pilots, flight attendants, dispatchers, mechanics, material 21specialists and aircraft appearance agents. We cannot assure that future agreements with our employees' unions will be on terms in line with our expectations or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors, and any future agreements may increase our labor costs and reduce both our income and our competitiveness for future business opportunities. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 56% of the Company's workforce is employed under union contracts. Because of the high level of unionization among our employees, we are subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or the incurrence of additional expenses associated with union representation of our employees. We have never experienced any work stoppages or other job actions and generally consider our relationship with our employees to be good. The union contract for our pilots and our flight attendants, except Frontier’s pilots, is currently amendable. The union contracts for our mechanics and tool room attendants, dispatchers, and our material specialists are amendable in 2012. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel.Our business depends upon the efforts of our Chief Executive Officer, Bryan Bedford, and our other key management and operating personnel. American can terminate its code-share agreement if we replace Mr. Bedford without its consent, which cannot be unreasonably withheld. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. We maintain a “key man” life insurance policy in the amount of $5 million for Mr. Bedford, but this amount may not adequately compensate us in the event we lose his services.We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees.The airline industry is experiencing a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we have, from time to time, faced considerable turnover of our employees. Our pilots, flight attendants and maintenance technicians sometimes leave to work for larger airlines, which generally offer higher salaries and more extensive benefit programs than regional airlines or other low cost carriers are financially able to offer. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, the result will be significantly higher training costs than otherwise would be necessary. An inability to recruit, train and retain qualified employees may adversely impact our performance.Our maintenance expenses will increase as our fleet ages and may be higher than we anticipate.Because the average age of our Embraer aircraft is approximately 6.4 years old and that of our Airbus aircraft is approximately 5.4 years old, our aircraft require less maintenance now than they will in the future. We have incurred lower maintenance expenses because most of the parts on our aircraft are under multi-year warranties. Our maintenance costs will increase significantly as our fleet ages and these warranties expire.We bear the cost of all routine and major maintenance on our owned and leased aircraft. Maintenance expenses comprise a significant portion of our operating expenses. In addition, we are required periodically to take aircraft out of service for heavy maintenance checks, which can increase costs and reduce revenue. We also may be required to comply with regulations and airworthiness directives the FAA issues, the cost of which our aircraft lessors may only partially assume depending upon the magnitude of the expense. Although we believe that our owned and leased aircraft are currently in compliance with all FAA issued airworthiness directives, additional airworthiness directives likely will be required in the future, necessitating additional expense.Our ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards may be limited.At December 31, 2011, we had estimated federal net operating loss carry-forwards, which we refer to as NOLs, of $1.4 billion for federal income tax purposes that begin to expire in 2015. We have recorded a valuation allowance for $408.0 million of those NOLs. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which we refer to as Section 382, imposes limitations on a corporation's ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an “ownership change.” In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. In the event of an ownership change, utilization of our NOLs would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382. Any unused NOLs in excess of the annual limitation may be carried over to later years.The imposition of a limitation on our ability to use our NOLs to offset future taxable income could cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitation were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Based on analysis that we performed, we believe we have not experienced a change in ownership as defined by Section 382, however; certain of our NOLs generated prior to July 2005 and acquired from Midwest and Frontier are subject to an annual limitation under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 (“IRC 382”). 22Changes to our business model may not be successful and may cause operational difficulties.We are devoting significant attention and resources to separating our fixed-fee and branded business. If we are unable to separate our business practices and operations in a manner that allows us to achieve the anticipated revenue and cost synergies, or if achievement of such separation takes longer or more costs than expected, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, it is possible that the separation process could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of management's attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the separation, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results.We are at risk of losses stemming from an accident involving any of our aircraft.While we have never had a crash causing death or serious injury over our 37 year history, it is possible that one or more of our aircraft may crash or be involved in an accident in the future, causing death or serious injury to individual air travelers and our employees and destroying the aircraft and the property of third parties.In addition, if one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident we would be exposed to significant tort liability. Such liability could include liability arising from the claims of passengers or their estates seeking to recover damages for death or injury. There can be no assurance that the insurance we carry to cover such damages will be adequate. Accidents could also result in unforeseen mechanical and maintenance costs. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and a decrease in revenues. Such a decrease could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.Customer loyalty may be affected due to diminishing product differentiation.Frontier's branded business strategy includes a premium travel experience at competitive fares. The Company seeks to differentiate itself through better customer service throughout the customer's travel experience. Any loss of customers due to diminishing product differentiation could harm our business. Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results.The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and adecrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers. Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly and our ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices remains uncertain. In addition, we have obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if we had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. The program has been extended, with the same conditions and premiums, until September 30, 2012. If the federal insurance program terminates, we would likely face a material increase in the cost of war risk insurance. The failure of one or more of our insurers could result in a lack of coverage for a period of time. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the claims paying ability of some insurers. Future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. Because of competitive pressures in our industry, our ability to pass additional insurance costs to passengers is limited. As a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial results.The Company may not realize the full value of its intangible or long-lived assets which may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.In accordance with applicable accounting standards, the Company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. In addition, the Company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company performed impairment tests of certain intangible assets and certain long-lived assets (principally aircraft, related spare engines and spare parts). The impairment tests were due to events and changes in circumstances that indicated an impairment might have occurred. Certain of the factors deemed by management to have indicated that impairments may have occurred include a significant decrease in actual and forecasted revenues, high fuel prices, significant losses, a weak U.S. economy, and changes in the planned use of assets. As a result of the 23impairment testing, the Company recorded significant impairment charges as described in Note 6 to the financial statements included in Item 8. The Company may be required to recognize additional impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and the uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. The Company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. The value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. Such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the Company or other carriers. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations.Risks Associated with the Airline IndustryThe airline industry is highly competitive.Within the airline industry, we not only compete with major and other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low-fare airlines and major airlines on many of our routes, including carriers that fly point to point instead of to or through a hub.Some of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter our markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats.In addition to traditional competition among airlines, the industry faces competition from video teleconferencing and other methods of electronic communication. New advances in technology may add a new dimension of competition to the industry as business travelers seek lower-cost substitutes for air travel.If passengers perceive the operations of regional aircraft as being unsafe, our business may be harmed.In February 2009, Colgan Flight 3407, operating as Continental Connection, crashed on its approach into Buffalo, New York. A total of 50 people were killed. Since the date of this tragedy, there have been numerous press reports questioning some of the operating policies of regional airlines. In response, there have also been legislative initiatives aimed at heightening safety requirements, such as The Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009. Although our regional jets have never had a crash causing death or serious injury in over 37 years of operations, should the public perceive regional aircraft as less safe our Partners may be less inclined to renew our contracts in the future or should new legislation impose additional burdens on us, our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock could be materially adversely effected.High fuel costs would harm the airline industry.High fuel prices would harm the airline industry's financial condition and results of operations. Fuel costs constitute a substantial portion of the total operating expenses of the airline industry. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues, supply and demand and other factors. Fuel availability is also affected by demand for home heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Further, in the event of a fuel supply shortage or further increases in fuel prices, a curtailment of scheduled service could result. A one dollar change in price per barrel of crude oil will increase or decrease our fuel expense by $5.3 million. A one-cent change in the cost of each gallon of fuel would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $2.2 million per year based on our current fleet and aircraft fuel consumption.The airline industry has been subject to a number of strikes, which could affect our business.The airline industry has been negatively impacted by a number of labor strikes. Any new collective bargaining agreement entered into by other carriers may result in higher industry wages and increase pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Furthermore, since each of our Partners is a significant source of our operating revenues, any labor disruption or labor strike by the employees of any one of our Partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.24 Airlines are often affected by certain factors beyond their control, including weather conditions, which can affect their operations.Generally, revenues for airlines depend on the number of passengers carried, the fare paid by each passenger and service factors, such as the timeliness of departure and arrival. During periods of fog, ice, low temperatures, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. For example, in July 2011, hail storms in Denver, CO. forced us to cancel an abnormal portion of our operations. Under our fixed-fee code-share agreements, our regional airline business is partially protected against cancellations due to weather or air traffic control, although these factors may affect our ability to receive incentive payments for flying more than the minimum number of flights specified in our code-share agreements. Should we enter into pro-rate revenue sharing agreements in the future our regional airline business will not be protected against weather or air traffic control cancellations and our operating revenues could suffer as a result. Our branded operations are not insulated against weather or air traffic control cancellations. Future economic recessions could result in weaker demand for air travel and may create challenges for us that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Demand for air travel could weaken in an economic recession. Economic weakness in the United States and international economies could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations.The airline industry is heavily regulated.Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne wind shear avoidance systems, noise abatement, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft.We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business.The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety related items and removal, replacement or modification of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our Embraer or Airbus aircraft, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations.In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as Embraer or Bombardier aircraft, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of Embraer or Bombardier aircraft at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations.Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For instance, “passenger bill of rights” legislation was introduced in Congress that, if enacted, would have, among other things, required the payment of compensation to passengers as a result of certain delays and limited the ability of carriers to prohibit or restrict usage of certain tickets. This legislation is not currently active but if it is reintroduced, these measures could have the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and increasing costs. Several state legislatures have also considered such legislation, and the State of New York in fact implemented a “passenger bill of rights” that was overturned by a federal appeals court in 2008. The DOT has imposed restrictions on the ownership and transfer of airline routes and takeoff and landing slots at certain high-density airports, including New York LaGuardia and Reagan National. In addition, as a result of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. in September 2001, the FAA and the TSA have imposed stringent security requirements on airlines. We cannot predict what other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and we cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.25The airline industry is seasonal and cyclical resulting in unpredictable liquidity and passenger revenues.Because the airline industry is seasonal and cyclical, our revenues related to Frontier will fluctuate throughout the year. Our weakest travel periods are generally during the quarters ending in March and December. The airline industry is also a highly cyclical business with substantial volatility. Our operating and financial results are likely to be negatively impacted by national or regional economic conditions in the U.S., and particularly in Colorado.We are in a high fixed cost business and any unexpected decrease in revenue would harm us.The airline industry is characterized by low profit margins and high fixed costs primarily for personnel, fuel, aircraft ownership and lease costs and other rents. The expenses of an aircraft flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried and, as a result, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing would have a disproportionate effect on the operating and financial results of Frontier and possibly on us as a whole. We are often affected by factors beyond our control, including weather conditions, traffic congestion at airports and increased security measures, and irrational pricing from competitors, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition.Risks Related To Our Common StockOur stock price is volatile.Since our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ National Market (now the NASDAQ Global Select Market) on May 27, 2004, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $2.53 to a high of $23.88 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •announcements concerning our Partners, competitors, the airline industry or the economy in general; •strategic actions by us, our Partners or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •the results of our operations; •media reports and publications about the safety of our aircraft or the aircraft types we operate; •new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; •general and industry specific economic conditions, including the price of oil; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings or our Partners; and •general market conditions. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our business.Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders or insiders could depress the price of our common stock.Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the availability of a large number of shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. Sales of shares by insiders could be perceived negatively by the investment community.26Our incorporation documents and Delaware law have provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could negatively affect your investment.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain of these provisions:•authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; •limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; •provide that a supermajority vote of our stockholders is required to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and •establish advance notice requirements to nominate directors for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These and other provisions in our incorporation documents and Delaware law could allow our board of directors to affect your rights as a stockholder by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace board members. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. In addition, these provisions could deprive our stockholders of opportunities to realize a premium on the shares of common stock owned by them.Our charter documents include provisions limiting voting by foreign owners.Our certificate of incorporation provides that shares of capital stock may not be voted by or at the direction of persons who are not citizens of the United States if the number of such shares would exceed applicable foreign ownership restrictions. U.S. law currently requires that no more than 25% of the voting stock of our company or any other domestic airline may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not citizens of the United States. However, up to 49% of the total equity of our company or any other domestic airline may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not citizens of the United StatesITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone27