ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: Risks Related To Our Operations We are dependent on our code-share relationships with our Partners. We depend on relationships created by our regional jet fixed-fee code-share agreements with American, Continental, Delta, Midwest, Mokulele, United and US Airways for all of our regional airline service revenues. Any material modification to, or termination of, our code-share agreements with any of these Partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of our operations and the price of our common stock. Each of the code-share agreements contains a number of grounds for termination by our Partners, including our failure to meet specified performance levels. In addition, American may terminate its code-share agreement without cause upon 180 days notice, provided such notice may not be given prior to September 30, 2011. If American terminates its code-share agreement for cause, it has the right to require us to assign to them our leases of all E140 aircraft then operating under the code-share agreement or to lease such aircraft to them to the extent we own them. If American terminates our code-share agreement other than for cause, we have the right to require American to assume our leases of all E140 aircraft then operating under the code-share agreement, or to lease such jets from us to the extent we own them. Delta may partially or completely terminate its code-share agreement with respect to the E145 aircraft, with or without cause, on 180 days written notice at any time after November 2009, and may partially or completely terminate its code-share agreement with respect to the E170 aircraft, with or without cause, on 180 days written notice at any time after July 2015. If Delta exercises this right under either agreement or if we terminate either agreement for cause, we have the right to require Delta either to purchase, sublease or assume the lease of aircraft leased by us with respect to any of the aircraft we previously operated for Delta under that agreement. If we choose not to exercise this right, or if Delta terminates either agreement for cause, Delta may require us to sell or sublease to it or Delta may assume the lease of aircraft leased by us with respect to any of the aircraft we previously operated for it under that agreement. If we wrongfully terminate our United code-share agreement, breach certain provisions thereof or fall below certain minimum operating thresholds for three consecutive months or any six month period in a rolling 12 month period, United can assume our ownership or leasehold interests in the aircraft we operate for them. Continental may terminate its code-share agreement with cause or if we breach certain provisions thereof including a breach of our guaranty granted to it. Each of Midwest and Mokulele may terminate their code-share agreements with cause or if we breach certain provisions thereof. In addition, because substantially all of our operating revenues are currently generated under the code-share agreements, if any one of them is terminated, our operating revenues and net income will be materially adversely affected unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements or, alternatively, fly under our own flight designator code, including obtaining the airport facilities and gates necessary to do so. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into substitute code-share arrangements, that any such substitute arrangements would be as favorable to us as the current code-share agreements or that we could successfully fly under our own flight designator code. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively, Delta accounted for approximately 29%, 33% and 35%, US Airways accounted for approximately 25%, 22% and 24%, United accounted for approximately 21%, 24% and 30% and American accounted for approximately 10%, 9% and 11% of our regional airline services revenues. For the years ending December 31, 2008 and 2007 Continental accounted for approximately 12% and 10% and Frontier accounted for approximately 2% and 2% of our regional airline services revenues. Midwest accounted for approximately 1% and Mokulele accounted for less than 1% of our regional airline services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. We may be unable to redeploy smaller aircraft removed from service. Certain of our Partners have indicated a desire to schedule fewer 50 seat aircraft. To the extent that we agree to remove an E140/145 aircraft from service, we must either sell or sublease the aircraft to another party or redeploy it in order to cover our carrying expenses for that aircraft. Our inability to sell, sublease and/or redeploy aircraft that have been removed from service could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. If the financial strength of any of our Partners decreases, our financial strength is at risk. We are directly affected by the financial and operating strength of our Partners. In the event of a decrease in the financial or operational strength of any of our Partners, such partner may be unable to make the payments due to us under its code-share agreement. In addition, it may reduce utilization of our aircraft to the minimum levels specified in the code-share agreements. US Airways, Delta and United have recently emerged from bankruptcy. Frontier filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in April 2008. In addition, it is possible that any code-share agreement with a code-share partner that files for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code may not be assumed in bankruptcy and could be modified or terminated. Any such event could have an adverse effect on our operations and the price of our common stock. As of February 3, 2009, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, respectively, maintained ratings of B- and Caa1 for US Airways, B- and Caa1 for AMR Corp., the parent of American, B and B2 for Delta, B- and Caa1 for UAL Corp., the parent of United, and B and B2 for Continental. Ratings for Midwest Air Group, parent company of Midwest, and Mokulele are not available. In October 2008, we entered into a credit agreement with US Airways. Under the agreement, we agreed to make a term loan to US Airways in the amount of $10.0 million. Subject to certain terms and conditions, we also agreed to make an additional term loan of up to $25.0 million. In September 2008, we entered into an amended and restated senior secured credit agreement with Midwest. Under the agreement, we made a one-year term loan to Midwest in the amount of $25.0 million. The loan is collateralized by substantially all of Midwest's unencumbered assets and is generally senior to unsecured lenders' security positions to the extent of such collateral. In October 2008, we entered into a loan agreement with Mokulele under which we are providing up to $8.0 million in direct financing to Mokulele in the form of a line of credit, which can be converted, at our option, for up to 45% of the common stock of Mokulele. Mokulele is currently in default of its loan and code-share agreement. We are negotiating with Mokulele the terms of a possible recapitalization of Mokulele, but there can be no assurance that Mokulele will be recapitalized. As a part of these negotiations, we are contemplating converting $3.0 million of our loan and injecting $3.0 million of cash in exchange for 50% of Mokulele's common stock. Even if this recapitalization is completed, Mokulele could require additional funding, part or all of which may come from us. If the business environment does not improve for Mokulele, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected A default by Frontier, US Airways, or Midwest on the loans we have made to them could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the price of our common stock. Our Partners may expand their direct operation of aircraft thus limiting the expansion of our relationships with them. We depend on major airlines such as our Partners to contract with us instead of purchasing and operating their own aircraft. However, some major airlines own their own regional airlines and operate their own aircraft instead of entering into contracts with us or other regional carriers. For example, American and Delta have acquired many aircraft which they fly under their affiliated carriers, American Eagle, with respect to American, and Comair, with respect to Delta. In addition, US Airways is operating aircraft through its PSA subsidiary. We have no guarantee that in the future our Partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of purchasing their own aircraft or entering into relationships with competing regional airlines. They are not prohibited from doing so under our code-share agreements. In addition, US Airways previously announced that, pursuant to an agreement with its pilots, US Airways will not enter into agreements with its regional affiliates to fly E190 and higher capacity aircraft and it is possible that our other partners will make the same decision. Midwest has the option of directly operating the aircraft which we currently operate for them. A decision by US Airways, American, Delta, United, Continental, Midwest or Mokulele to phase out our contract based code-share relationships as they expire and instead acquire and operate their own aircraft or to enter into similar agreements with one or more of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Any labor disruption or labor strikes by our employees or those of our Partners would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. All of our pilots, customer service employees, flight attendants and dispatchers are represented by unions. Collectively, these employees represent approximately 74% of our workforce as of December 31, 2008. Although we have never had a work interruption or stoppage and believe our relations with our unionized employees are generally good, we are subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or may incur additional administrative expenses associated with union representation of our employees. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups on the amended terms of their collective bargaining agreements, we may be subject to work interruptions and/or stoppages. Any sustained work stoppages could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations under our code-share agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Under the terms of our jet code-share agreement with US Airways, if we are unable to provide scheduled flights as a result of a strike by our employees, it is only required to pay us for certain fixed costs for specified periods. Under the terms of the code-share agreements with the remainder of our Partners, none of them are required to pay us any amounts during the period our employees are on strike and we are unable to provide scheduled flights. A sustained strike by our employees would require us to bear costs otherwise paid by our Partners. In addition, a labor disruption other than a union authorized strike may cause us to be in material breach of our code-share agreements, all of which require us to meet specified flight completion levels during specified periods. Our Partners have the right to terminate their code-share agreements if we fail to meet these completion levels. -14- Our Partners may be restricted in increasing the level of business that they conduct with us, thereby limiting our growth. In general, the pilots' unions of certain major airlines have negotiated collective bargaining agreements that restrict the number and/or size of regional aircraft that a particular carrier may operate. A "scope" clause in US Airways' current collective bargaining agreement with its pilots prevents US Airways from using more than 465 aircraft not flown by its pilots in its operations. There are no quantity limitations in the US Airways "scope" limitations for small aircraft. For purposes of this "scope" restriction, a small regional jet is defined as any aircraft configured with 78 or fewer seats. For purposes of this limitation, a large regional jet is an aircraft configured with 79 to 90 passenger seats. US Airways can outsource up to an additional 55 aircraft, including the E175 and C900, configured with more than 78 seats but less than 90 seats, subject to certain limitations. We cannot assure you that US Airways will contract with us to fly any additional aircraft. Our pilots union limited their approval to 80 additional aircraft for US Airways, which includes the 20 E170s and 38 E175s we currently operate for US Airways. A "scope" clause in American's current collective bargaining agreement with its pilots limits it from operating aircraft having 51 or more seats. A "scope" clause in Delta's current collective bargaining agreement with its pilots restricts it from operating aircraft having more than 70 to 76 seats and limits it from operating more than 175, or under certain circumstances, 200 aircraft having 70 to 76 seats. United's "scope" limitations restrict it from operating aircraft configured with more than 70 seats or any aircraft weighing more than 83,000 pounds. Continental's "scope" limitations restrict it from operating aircraft configured with more than 51 seats. American's "scope" limitations further limit its partners, in our case Chautauqua, from operating aircraft with 51 or more seats even for partners other than American. Delta's "scope" limitations restrict its partners from operating aircraft with over 76 seats even if those aircraft are operated for an airline other than Delta. Neither US Airways, United nor Continental has similar "scope" limits on the size of aircraft we can operate for our other Partners. We cannot assure you that these "scope" clauses will not become more restrictive in the future. Any additional limit on the number of aircraft we can fly for our Partners could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans and the price of our common stock. We have significant debt and off-balance sheet obligations and any inability to pay would adversely impact our operations. The airline business is very capital intensive and, as a result, many airline companies are highly leveraged. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our mandatory debt service payments totaled $274.6 million and $198.6 million, respectively, and our mandatory lease payments totaled $137.6 million and $138.7 million, respectively. We have significant lease obligations with respect to our aircraft, which aggregated approximately $976.6 million and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Embraer's current aggregate list price for the three aircraft that we expect to acquire during the first quarter of 2009 is approximately $105.0 million. We expect to acquire on credit a substantial portion of this value, which will increase our mandatory lease and debt service payments. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow to make such payments or that we will be able to obtain financing to acquire the additional aircraft or make other capital expenditures necessary for our expansion. If we default under our loan or lease agreements, the lender/lessor has available extensive remedies, including, without limitation, repossession of the respective aircraft and other assets and, in the case of large creditors, the effective ability to exert control over how we allocate a significant portion of our revenues. Even if we are able to timely service our debt, the size of our long-term debt and lease obligations could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock in many ways, including: • increasing the cost, or limiting the availability of, additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes; • limiting the ways in which we can use our cash flow, much of which may have to be used to satisfy debt and lease obligations; and • adversely affecting our ability to respond to changing business or economic conditions. We currently depend on Embraer to support our fleet of regional jet aircraft. Currently, we are obligated under our code-share agreements to place an additional three Embraer aircraft in service through 2009. We are dependent on Embraer as the manufacturer of all of these jets. Our risks in relying primarily on a single manufacturer include: • the possibility that Embraer could refuse, or may not be financially able, to perform its obligations under the purchase agreement for the delivery of the aircraft; • a fire, strike or other event could occur that affects Embraer's ability to completely or timely fulfill its contractual obligations; • the failure or inability of Embraer to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis; • the interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for these aircraft; • the issuance of FAA directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Embraer aircraft or requiring time-consuming inspections and maintenance; and • the adverse public perception of a manufacturer as a result of an accident or other adverse publicity. Any disruption or change in the delivery schedule of the three additional Embraer aircraft would affect our overall operations and our ability to fulfill our obligations under our code-share agreements. Further, E170 and E175 aircraft began operating in the commercial airline market in February 2004 and July 2005, respectively. As relatively new products, these aircraft have been, and may continue to be, subject to unforeseen manufacturing and/or reliability issues. Our operations could be materially adversely affected by the failure or inability of Embraer or any key component manufacturers to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis or by an interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for our aircraft. Reduced utilization levels of our aircraft under the fixed-fee agreements would adversely impact our revenues, earnings and liquidity. Our agreements with our Partners require each of them to schedule our aircraft to a minimum level of utilization. However, the aircraft have historically been utilized more than the minimum requirement. Even though the fixed-fee rates may adjust, either up or down, based on scheduled utilization levels or require a fixed amount per day to compensate us for our fixed costs, if our aircraft are at or below the minimum requirement (including taking into account the stage length and frequency of our scheduled flights) we will likely lose both the opportunity to recover a margin on the variable costs of flights that would have been flown if our aircraft were more fully utilized and the opportunity to earn incentive compensation on such flights. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, will directly impact our earnings. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs, and we have experienced pressure to increase wages and benefits for our employees. Under our code-share agreements, our reimbursement rates contemplate labor costs that increase on a set schedule generally tied to an increase in the consumer price index or the actual increase in the contract. We are entirely responsible for our labor costs, and we may not be entitled to receive increased payments for our flights if our labor costs increase above the assumed costs included in the reimbursement rates. As a result, a significant increase in our labor costs above the levels assumed in our reimbursement rates could result in a material reduction in our earnings. We have collective bargaining agreements with our pilots, flight attendants and dispatchers. We cannot assure you that future agreements with our employees' unions will be on terms in line with our expectations or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors, and any future agreements may increase our labor costs and reduce both our income and our competitiveness for future business opportunities. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Bryan Bedford, and our other key management and operating personnel. American can terminate its code-share agreement if we replace Mr. Bedford without its consent, which cannot be unreasonably withheld. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who leave and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. We maintain a "key man" life insurance policy in the amount of $10 million for Mr. Bedford, but this amount may not adequately compensate us in the event we lose his services. -15- We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. The airline industry has from time to time experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we have, from time to time, faced considerable turnover of our employees. Although our employee turnover has decreased significantly since September 11, 2001, our pilots, flight attendants and maintenance technicians sometimes leave to work for larger airlines, which generally offer higher salaries and more extensive benefit programs than regional airlines are financially able to offer. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, the result will be significantly higher training costs than otherwise would be necessary. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to carry out our expansion plans or to replace departing employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to complete our expansion plans, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. We are at risk of losses stemming from an accident involving any of our aircraft. While we have never had a crash causing death or serious injury over our 34 year history, it is possible that one or more of our aircraft may crash or be involved in an accident in the future, causing death or serious injury to individual air travelers and our employees and destroying the aircraft and the property of third parties. In addition, if one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident we would be exposed to significant tort liability. Such liability could include liability arising from the claims of passengers or their estates seeking to recover damages for death or injury. There can be no assurance that the insurance we carry to cover such damages will be adequate. Accidents could also result in unforeseen mechanical and maintenance costs. In addition, any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public perception that our aircraft are not safe, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and a decrease in revenues. Such a decrease could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Risks Associated with the Airline Industry The airline industry is highly competitive. Within the airline industry, we not only compete with other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low-fare airlines and major airlines on many of our routes, including carriers that fly point to point instead of to or through a hub. Other low-fare carriers serve the Indianapolis International Airport, which results in significant price competition in the Indianapolis market, one of our major markets. Competition in the eastern United States markets, which we service from US Airways' hubs in New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. and from Delta's hub in Cincinnati, and Atlanta, is particularly intense, due to the large number of carriers in those markets. In addition, some of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter our markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. In addition to traditional competition among airlines, the industry faces competition from video teleconferencing and other methods of electronic communication. New advances in technology may add a new dimension of competition to the industry as business travelers seek lower-cost substitutes for air travel. High fuel costs would harm the airline industry. While fuel is at or near three year lows, the recent spike in the price of oil to $147 per barrel in July 2008 caused airlines significant losses. A return to higher fuel prices would harm the airline industry's financial condition and results of operations. Fuel costs constitute a substantial portion of the total operating expenses of the airline industry. Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical issues, supply and demand and other factors. Fuel availability is also affected by demand for home heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products. Because of the effect of these events on the price and availability of fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. Further, in the event of a fuel supply shortage or further increases in fuel prices, a curtailment of scheduled service could result. The airline industry has been subject to a number of strikes which could affect our business. The airline industry has been negatively impacted by a number of labor strikes. Any new collective bargaining agreement entered into by other regional carriers may result in higher industry wages and increase pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Furthermore, since each of our Partners is a significant source of our operating revenues, any labor disruption or labor strike by the employees of any one of our Partners could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Airlines are often affected by certain factors beyond their control, including weather conditions, which can affect their operations. Generally, revenues for airlines depend on the number of passengers carried, the fare paid by each passenger and service factors, such as the timeliness of departure and arrival. During periods of fog, ice, low temperatures, storms or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. For example, in 2005, Hurricane Wilma forced us to suspend some of our operations in Florida for a number of days. Under our fixed-fee code-share agreements, we are partially protected against cancellations due to weather or air traffic control, although these factors may affect our ability to receive incentive payments for flying more than the minimum number of flights specified in our code-share agreements. Should we enter into pro-rate revenue sharing agreements in the future we will not be protected against weather or air traffic control cancellations and our operating revenues could suffer as a result. The airline industry has recently gone through a period of consolidation and transition; consequently, we have fewer potential partners. Since 1978 and continuing to the present, the airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and it may in the future undergo additional consolidation. For example, in 2008, Delta and Northwest completed a merger. Other recent developments include the domestic code-share alliance between United and US Airways, and the merger of America West and US Airways. We, as well as our Partners, routinely monitor changes in the competitive landscape and engage in analysis and discussions regarding our strategic position, including potential alliances and business combination transactions. Further consolidation could limit the number of potential partners with whom we could enter into code-share relationships. Although none of our contracts with our Partners allow termination or are amendable in the event of consolidation, any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could adversely affect our relationship with our Partners. The airline industry is heavily regulated. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant costs. In the last several years, the FAA has issued a number of directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that have required us to make significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne wind shear avoidance systems, noise abatement, commuter aircraft safety and increased inspection and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not significantly increase our costs of doing business. The FAA has the authority to issue mandatory orders relating to, among other things, the grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety related items and removal, replacement or modification of aircraft parts that have failed or may fail in the future. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our Embraer or Bombardier aircraft, for any reason, could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as Embraer or Bombardier aircraft, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of Embraer or Bombardier aircraft at any airport at which we operate could interfere with our obligations under our code-share agreements and severely interrupt our business operations. -16- Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For instance, "passenger bill of rights" legislation was introduced in Congress that, if enacted, would have, among other things, required the payment of compensation to passengers as a result of certain delays and limited the ability of carriers to prohibit or restrict usage of certain tickets. This legislation is not currently active but if it is reintroduced, these measures could have the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue and increasing costs. Several state legislatures have also considered such legislation, and the State of New York in fact implemented a "passenger bill of rights" that was overturned by a federal appeals court in 2008. The DOT has imposed restrictions on the ownership and transfer of airline routes and takeoff and landing slots at certain high density airports, including New York LaGuardia and Reagan National. In addition, as a result of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. in September 2001, the FAA and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) have imposed stringent security requirements on airlines. We cannot predict what other new regulations may be imposed on airlines and we cannot assure you that laws or regulations enacted in the future will not materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. Since our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ National Market (now the NASDAQ Global Select Market) on May 27, 2004, the market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $4.72 to a high of $23.88 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • announcements concerning our Partners, competitors, the airline industry or the economy in general; • strategic actions by us, our Partners or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • media reports and publications about the safety of our aircraft or the aircraft types we operate; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry specific economic conditions, including the price of oil; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • sales of our common stock or other actions by investors with significant shareholdings or our Partners; and • general market conditions. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources and harm our business. Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the availability of a large number of shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. Our incorporation documents and Delaware law have provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could negatively affect your investment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as "blank check" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; • limit the persons who can call special stockholder meetings; • provide that a supermajority vote of our stockholders is required to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements to nominate directors for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These and other provisions in our incorporation documents and Delaware law could allow our board of directors to affect your rights as a stockholder by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace board members. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. In addition, these provisions could deprive our stockholders of opportunities to realize a premium on the shares of common stock owned by them. Our charter documents include provisions limiting voting by foreign owners. Our certificate of incorporation provides that shares of capital stock may not be voted by or at the direction of persons who are not citizens of the United States if the number of such shares would exceed applicable foreign ownership restrictions. U.S. law currently requires that no more than 25% of the voting stock of our company or any other domestic airline may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not citizens of the United States. However, up to 49% of the total equity of our company or any other domestic airline may be owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not citizens of the United States. Additional Information The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission"). These materials can be inspected and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of these materials may also be obtained by mail at prescribed rates from the SEC's Public Reference Room at the above address. Information about the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC's Internet site is www.sec.gov. On our website, www.rjet.com/investorrelations.html, we provide free of charge our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The code of ethics, adopted by our Board of Directors, which applies to all our employees, can also be found on our website, www.rjet.com/investorrelations.html. Our audit committee charter is also available on our website. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None -17- 