RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks we face, together with the other information in this document when you make investment decisions involving our securities. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prices of our securities. MARKET DECLINES AND VOLATILITY CAN MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND PROFITS. In recent years we have increased our exposure to the financial markets as we have emphasized growth in our investment banking activities, including trading activities. Accordingly, we believe that we are more at risk from adverse developments in the financial markets than we were when we derived a larger percentage of our revenues from traditional lending activities. Market declines can cause our revenues to decline, and, if we are unable to reduce our expenses at the same pace, can cause our profitability to erode. Volatility can sometimes also adversely affect us. 6 Table of Contents An overall market downturn can adversely affect our business and financial performance. Market downturns can occur not only as a result of purely economic factors, but also as a result of war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or other similar events. Since the second half of 2007, financial markets have experienced exceptionally difficult conditions, which have been reflected in considerably lower volumes of business activity in the areas most directly affected and concerns about slowing economic and business momentum more generally. Among the principally affected areas in which we do business have been the leveraged finance and structured credit markets. In addition to causing reduced business activity and revenues in these and other areas, continuing difficult market conditions may require us to write down the carrying values of some of our portfolios of assets, including leveraged loans and loan commitments. Compensating for these negative effects on our profitability through performance in our other businesses may not be feasible, particularly if assumptions for continuing, albeit slower, economic growth in 2008 are not correct and less favorable economic conditions prevail. See “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Results of Operations by Segment – Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division” for information on the impact of the current market environment on a number of our key businesses. WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT LOSSES FROM OUR TRADING AND INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES DUE TO MARKET FLUCTUATIONS. We enter into and maintain large trading and investment positions in the fixed income, equity and currency markets, primarily through our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division. We describe these activities in “