Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS A small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material negative impact upon our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our revenues were $1.10 billion and our operating expenses were $1.09 billion. A small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material negative impact upon our operating results. Our investments in securities have experienced significant losses and we may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay debts or to grow. We are currently funding our operations and growth strategy through a combination of cash generated from operations, cash on hand, expanded leases with Senior Housing and borrowings. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable cost to repay debts or fund new investments. This ability and cost, in turn, is subject to credit market volatility. We are currently experiencing a global liquidity crisis in the debt and equity capital markets which has had, and may continue to have, at least four consequences to us: •First, a part of our cash balances has been historically invested in ARS. Historically we have had the option to liquidate these investments whenever the interest rate reset auctions close, usually every 35 days or less. Starting in February 2008, the market for our ARS failed and we have been unable to liquidate our holdings of approximately $74.8 million, par value, of our ARS investments. We have entered in a settlement agreement with UBS, an affiliate of the broker that sold us our ARS. Pursuant to this settlement agreement UBS is obligated to repurchase our ARS at 100% of par value upon our request between June 2010 and July 2012, however, we cannot guarantee that UBS will be able to meet its obligation. In connection with the settlement, UBS has provided us a non-recourse credit facility secured by our investment in these ARS. The principal amount available to us is up to 60% of the market value of the ARS from time to time. As of December 31, 2008 and February 27, 2009, we have $21.8 million and $37.6 million outstanding under this credit facility, respectively and $15.9 million and $2.1 million remained available to be drawn, respectively. •Second, under applicable GAAP accounting rules we have been required to reduce the value of our ARS to their estimated market value. During 2008, we recorded mark to market losses on 14 Table of Contents our ARS totaling approximately $12.0 million. Because of our settlement agreement with UBS, substantially all of these recorded losses were recaptured in the fourth quarter of 2008 through the value of our right to require UBS to repurchase our ARS beginning in 2010. However, if we determine that UBS may be unable to honor its obligations to repurchase our ARS, or if, in fact, UBS does not repurchase these ARS, we may record additional net losses to reflect the market value of our put right. •Third, a significant amount of our insurance reserves have been historically invested in securities, including preferred securities of financial institutions. The market value of our securities investments has materially declined. During 2008, we recorded a loss of approximately $8.4 million to reflect the fact that we believe these market declines may be "other than temporary". If the capital markets continue to decline we may realize additional losses as a result of these investments. •Fourth, our outstanding debt securities are not rated by any generally recognized rating agencies. If our debt obligations were rated, we do not believe they would achieve investment grade ratings. We believe that, during periods of tightened liquidity in debt capital markets, borrowings by unrated, or less than investment grade rated companies like us may be difficult to obtain and increasingly expensive. We do not expect the current market conditions to adversely affect our existing $40.0 million revolving credit facility which we renewed in December 2008. However, if the current market conditions persist, we believe we may experience difficulty in renewing this credit facility when it expires in May 2010 and that our costs of any such renewal may be higher than the costs we incurred to put the current facility in effect and to borrow under it. Also, so long as the current market conditions persist, we may be unable to increase our borrowings on terms which are similar to our historical terms or on any terms. As of December 31, 2008 and February 27, 2009, no amounts were outstanding with $40.0 million available under this credit facility. Circumstances that adversely affect the ability of seniors, or their families, to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on us. Our residents paid approximately 68% of our senior living revenues during the year ended December 31, 2008 from their private resources. We expect to continue to rely on the ability of our residents to pay for our services from their own financial resources. Inflation, a devalued stock market, rising unemployment, or other circumstances that adversely affect the ability of the elderly or their families to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seniors' inability to sell real estate may delay their moving into senior living facilities. Recent and continuing housing price declines and reduced home mortgage availability have negatively affected the United States housing market. Many economists now predict a prolonged period with little or no improvement in housing markets. These current difficulties may have a negative effect on our revenues or lead to increased reliance on Medicare and Medicaid for our revenues. Specifically, if seniors have a difficult time selling their homes, fewer seniors may be able to relocate into our senior living communities or finance their stays at our facilities with private resources. The failure of Medicare and Medicaid rates to match our costs will reduce our income. Some of our current operations, especially our SNFs, IRFs and pharmacy operations, receive significant revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we received approximately 32% of our senior living revenues, 63% of our hospital revenues and 50% of our pharmacy revenues from these programs. CMS and some members of Congress have proposed Medicare and Medicaid policy changes and rate reductions to be phased in during the next 15 Table of Contents several years. In addition, some of the states in which we operate either have not raised Medicaid rates by amounts sufficient to offset increasing costs or are expected to freeze or reduce Medicaid rates. The current recession and worsening economic conditions are causing budget shortfalls in most states, increasing the likelihood of Medicaid rate reductions, freezes or increases that are insufficient to offset increasing operating costs. The magnitude of the potential Medicare and Medicaid rate reductions, the impact of the failure of these programs to increase rates to match increasing expenses and the impact on us of potential Medicare and Medicaid policy changes proposed by members of Congress, cannot currently be estimated, but they may be material to our operations and may affect our future results of operations. Also, for discharges on and after April 1, 2008, Medicare increases to IRF rates for inflation are set at zero percent for federal fiscal years 2008 and 2009, and IRF prospective payment formulas have been recalibrated for fiscal year 2009, which could affect the profitability of our rehabilitation operations. We cannot now predict whether future Medicare and Medicaid rates will be sufficient to cover our future cost increases. Future Medicare and Medicaid rate declines or a failure of these rates to cover increasing costs could result in our experiencing lower earnings or losses. Our rehabilitation hospitals may be subject to Medicare reclassifications resulting in lower Medicare rates, or to retroactive repayments. A significant amount of the revenues at our rehabilitation hospitals is paid by the Medicare program. For cost reporting periods starting on and after July 1, 2006, 60% of an IRF's total inpatient population must require intensive rehabilitation services associated with treatment of at least one of 13 designated medical conditions. While we believe we are in compliance with the 60% requirement, and we expect to remain in compliance with this rule, we may not be able to remain in compliance, or CMS could determine that we were non-compliant in a prior year. Such an event would result in these hospitals being subject to Medicare reclassification to a different type of provider and our receiving lower Medicare payment rates retroactively or prospectively. Reductions in our Medicare payments as a result of the reclassification of our rehabilitation hospitals would materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Also, retroactive audits of Medicare claims submitted by IRFs and other providers are expanding, and CMS is recouping amounts paid for services determined by auditors not to have been medically necessary or not to meet Medicare criteria for coverage as billed. If our hospitals or clinics were required to make substantial retroactive repayments to Medicare, our earnings may be adversely affected. Private third party payors continue to try to reduce health care costs. Private third party payors are continuing their efforts to control health care costs through direct contracts with health care providers, increased utilization review and greater enrollment in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These third party payors increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures and the assumption by health care providers of all or a portion of the financial risk. We could be adversely affected by the continuing efforts of third party payors to limit the amount of reimbursement we receive for health care services. Reimbursement payments under third party payor programs may not remain at levels comparable to present levels or be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to such programs. Future changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our services could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. Finally, as a result of competitive pressures, our ability to maintain operating margins through price increases to private patients may be limited. Increases in our labor costs may have a material adverse effect on us. Wages and employee benefits for the Company as a whole, represented approximately 53% of our 2008 total operating costs. We compete with other operators of senior living communities and 16 Table of Contents rehabilitation hospitals with respect to attracting and retaining qualified personnel responsible for the day to day operations of each of our communities. The market for qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel may require us to increase the wages and benefits offered to our employees in order to attract and retain these personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. Also, we may have to compete for lesser skilled workers with numerous other employers. Further, when we acquire new facilities, we may be required to pay increased compensation or offer other incentives to retain key personnel and other employees. Employee benefits costs, including employee health insurance and workers' compensation insurance costs, have materially increased in recent years. To help control these costs, we partially self insure our workers compensation insurance and fully self insure our employee health insurance. Although we have determined our self insurance reserves with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may be inadequate. Increasing employee health and workers' compensation insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves for labor related insurance may materially negatively affect our earnings. No assurance can be given that our labor costs will not increase or that any increase will be matched by corresponding increases in rates charged to residents. Any significant failure by us to control our labor costs or to pass on any increased labor costs to residents through rate increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Successful union organization could adversely affect our business performance and results of operations. From time to time labor unions attempt to organize our employees. Certain of our employees have already chosen union representation and are represented under one collective bargaining agreement, which has a remaining term of approximately one year. If federal legislation modifies the labor laws to make it much easier for employee groups to unionize, then additional groups of employees may seek union representation. If more of our employees unionize it could result in business interruptions, work stoppages, the degradation of service levels at our senior living communities and rehabilitation hospitals due to work rules, or increased operating expenses that may adversely affect our financial results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which increases our costs and may result in losses. Licensing and Medicare and Medicaid laws require operators of senior living communities, rehabilitation hospitals, clinics, and pharmacies to comply with extensive standards governing operations. There are also various federal and state laws prohibiting fraud and abuse by senior living and rehabilitation hospital and clinic operators and pharmacy providers, including civil and criminal laws that prohibit false claims for Medicare and Medicaid coverage and that regulate patient referrals. In recent years, federal and state governments have devoted increased resources to monitor the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti-fraud investigations. CMS contractors are expanding the retroactive audits of Medicare claims submitted by IRFs, SNFs and other providers, and recouping alleged overpayments for services determined by auditors not to have been medically necessary or not to meet Medicare coverage criteria as billed. State Medicaid programs and other third party payors are conducting similar medical necessity and compliance audits. When quality of care deficiencies are identified or improper billing is uncovered, various remedies or sanctions may be imposed, including denial of new admissions, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid program participation, monetary penalties, restitution of overpayments, governmental oversight, loss of licensure and criminal penalties. Our communities incur sanctions and penalties from time to time. As a result of this extensive regulatory system and increasing enforcement initiatives, we have experienced increased costs for monitoring quality of care compliance and billing procedures, and we expect these costs may continue to increase. Also, if we become subject to additional regulatory sanctions or repayment obligations at any of our existing facilities, or as a result of purchasing facilities with prior deficiencies which we are 17 Table of Contents unable to correct or resolve, our business may be adversely affected and we might experience financial losses. The nature of our business exposes us to litigation risks. The nature of our business exposes us to litigation, and we are subject to lawsuits in the ordinary course of our business. In several well publicized instances, private litigation by residents of senior living communities for alleged abuses has resulted in large damage awards against other operating companies. Today, some lawyers and law firms specialize in bringing litigation against senior living companies. As a result of this litigation and potential litigation, our cost of liability insurance has increased during the past few years. Medical liability insurance reform has become a topic of political debate and some states have enacted legislation to limit future liability awards. However, if such reforms are not generally adopted, we expect our insurance costs may continue to increase. To reduce costs, we self insure a significant amount of our litigation liability risks. Although our reserves for liability self insurance have been determined with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may prove inadequate. Increasing liability insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves may materially negatively affect our results of operations or make those results less consistent. Our growth strategy may not succeed. Since our spin off from Senior Housing on December 31, 2001, we have grown rapidly through acquisitions. Our business plan includes acquiring additional senior living communities and possibly additional pharmacies and rehabilitation hospitals. Our growth strategy involves risks, including the following: •we may be unable to locate senior living communities that receive a large percentage of their revenues from private resources; •we may be unable to locate senior living communities, pharmacies or rehabilitation hospitals available for purchase at acceptable prices; •we may be unable to access capital to make acquisitions or operate acquired businesses; •acquired operations may not perform in accord with our expectations; •we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to improve acquired facilities, including capital expenditures that may not have been anticipated by us at the time of the acquisition; •we may have difficulty retaining key employees and other personnel at acquired facilities; •acquired operations may subject us to unanticipated contingent liabilities or regulatory problems; •to the extent we incur acquisition debt or leases, our operating leverage may increase and, to the extent we issue additional equity to fund our acquisitions, our shareholders' percentage of ownership will be diluted; and •combining our present operations with newly acquired operations may disrupt operations or cost more than anticipated. 18 Table of Contents For these reasons and others: •our business plan to grow may not succeed; •the benefits which we hope to achieve by growing may not be achieved; •we may suffer declines in profitability or suffer recurring losses; and •our existing operations may suffer from a lack of management attention or financial resources if such attention and resources are devoted to a failed growth strategy. When we acquire new communities, we sometimes see a decline in community occupancy and it may take a period of time for us to stabilize acquired community operations. Our efforts to restore occupancy or stabilize acquired communities' operations may not be successful. In addition, rehabilitation hospitals and pharmacies are businesses with which we have limited experience, and our initiatives in these areas may not be successful. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities that may require a significant amount of management resources and costs. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in preliminary discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such transactions, which could negatively impact our operations. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions regardless of whether the acquisition is completed. Failure to comply with laws governing the privacy and security of personal health information could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to comply with federal and state laws governing the privacy, security, use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, we are required to comply with the HIPAA privacy rule, security standards, and standards for electronic health care transactions. State laws also govern the privacy of individual health information, and state privacy rights rules may be more stringent. If we fail to comply with applicable federal or state standards, we could be subject to civil sanctions and criminal penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Termination of assisted living resident agreements and resident attrition could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. State regulations governing assisted living facilities typically require a written resident agreement with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate our assisted living resident agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, most resident agreements allow residents to terminate their agreements on 30 days' notice. Thus, we cannot contract with assisted living residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with terms of up to a year or longer. If a large number of residents elected to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, our revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the advanced age of our average senior living resident means that the resident turnover rate in our senior living communities may be difficult to predict. 19 Table of Contents Our business requires us to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve our facilities. Our communities sometimes require significant expenditures to address ongoing required maintenance and to make them attractive to residents. Physical characteristics of senior living communities and rehabilitation hospitals are mandated by various governmental authorities; changes in these regulations may require us to make significant expenditures. In addition, we often are required to make significant capital expenditures when we acquire new facilities. Our available financial resources may be insufficient to fund these expenditures. In addition to capital expenditures we are making at some of our senior living communities, we expect to make certain capital expenditures at the rehabilitation hospitals. Senior Housing has historically provided most of the capital we need to improve the properties we lease from them. However, whenever Senior Housing provides such capital, our rent increases and we may be unable to pay the increased rent without experiencing losses. Our business is highly competitive and we may be unable to operate profitably. We compete with numerous other companies that provide senior living, rehabilitation hospital and pharmacy services, including home healthcare companies and other real estate based service providers. Although some states require certificates of need to develop new SNFs there are fewer barriers to competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. Many of our existing competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than us. Some of our competitors are not for profit entities which have endowment income and may not have the same financial pressures that we face. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to attract a sufficient number of residents to our communities or that we will be able to attract employees and keep wages and other employee benefits, insurance costs and other operating expenses at levels which will allow us to compete successfully or to operate profitably. We are subject to possible conflicts of interest; we have engaged in, and expect to continue to engage in, transactions with parties who may be considered related parties. Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest as follows: •as of December 31, 2008, we leased from Senior Housing 181 of our 210 senior living communities and our two rehabilitation hospitals for total annual rent of approximately $172.9 million; •we purchase various management services from RMR, the manager of Senior Housing, and we lease office space from an affiliate of RMR; •our Chief Executive Officer, Bruce J. Mackey Jr., and our Chief Financial Officer, Francis R. Murphy III, are also employees of RMR, our managing directors, Barry M. Portnoy and Gerard M. Martin, are directors of RMR, Mr. Portnoy is a managing trustee of Senior Housing and is also the majority beneficial owner and the chairman of RMR; •under our shared services agreement with RMR, in the event of a conflict between Senior Housing and us, RMR may act on behalf of Senior Housing rather than on our behalf; and •RMR's simultaneous contractual obligations to us and Senior Housing create actual and potential conflicts of interest, and these conflicts can be especially severe in periods of financial stress such as the present. On December 31, 2001, Senior Housing distributed substantially all of its ownership of our shares to its shareholders. Simultaneously with the spin off, we entered into agreements with Senior Housing and RMR which, among other things, limit ownership of more than 9.8% of our voting shares, restrict our ability to take any action that could jeopardize the tax status of Senior Housing as a real estate 20 Table of Contents investment trust and limit our ability to acquire real estate of types which are owned by Senior Housing or other businesses managed by RMR. As a result of these agreements, our leases with Senior Housing and our shared services agreement with RMR, Senior Housing, RMR and their respective affiliates have significant roles in our business and we do not anticipate any changes to those roles in the future. We believe our affiliations with Senior Housing and RMR have been and will be beneficial to us. Although we do not believe the potential conflicts have adversely affected, or will adversely affect, our business, not everyone may agree with our position. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident director nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with directors, related persons and entities. Our relationships with Senior Housing, RMR, with Messrs. Portnoy and Martin and with RMR related persons may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Our leases of certain of our senior living communities are subordinated to mortgage debt of Senior Housing, and a default by Senior Housing could result in the termination of those leases. Our leases with Senior Housing for 28 of our senior living communities, which had 2008 revenues totaling $38.7 million, are subordinated to mortgage financing secured by such communities. As a result, in the event Senior Housing were to default on such mortgage financing, by reason of our default under our leases or for reasons unrelated to us or beyond our control, and its lender were to foreclose on such properties, our leases would terminate as a matter of law. While we may be able to enter into new leases with the lenders or the purchaser or purchasers of such properties, or they may elect to continue our occupancy under the terms of the lease as if there had been no foreclosure, such parties are not obligated to elect either option, and even if we are able to retain possession, the terms of our continued occupancy may not be as favorable to us as those contained in our leases with Senior Housing. If we do not enter into new leases of such communities following a foreclosure, we would lose the right to continue to operate these facilities and may incur material obligations to residents, employees and other parties as a result of such loss, each of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents, bylaws and in our material agreements, as well as certain provision of Maryland law, may prevent shareholders from implementing change of control or prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. Our charter places restrictions on the ability of any person or group to acquire beneficial ownership of more than 9.8% (in number of shares or value, whichever is more restrictive) of any class of our equity securities. The terms of our leases with Senior Housing and our shared services agreement with RMR provide that our rights under these agreements may be cancelled by Senior Housing and RMR, respectively, upon the acquisition by any person or group of more than 9.8% of our voting stock, and upon other change in control events, as defined in those documents including, in certain of the Senior Housing leases, the adoption of any proposal or the election to our board of directors of any individual if such proposal or individual was not approved, nominated or appointed, as the case may be, by vote of a majority of our directors in office immediately prior to the making of such proposal or the nomination or appointment of such individual. If the breach of these ownership limitations causes a lease default, shareholders causing the default may become liable to us or to other shareholders for damages. Additionally, on March 10, 2004, we entered into a rights agreement whereby in the event a person or group of persons acquires or attempts to acquire 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to 21 Table of Contents purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In addition, a termination of our shared services agreement is a default under our credit facility unless approved by our lender. These agreements and other provisions in our charter and bylaws may increase the difficulty of acquiring control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchases, a proxy fight or otherwise, if the acquisition is not approved by our board of directors. Other provisions in our governing documents which may deter takeover proposals include the following: •The division of our board of directors into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a director and a requirement that certain of our directors be "Independent Directors" and other directors be "Managing Directors"; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our directors; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to propose nominees for election as directors and propose other business before a meeting of shareholders; •the authority of our board of directors, and not our shareholders, to amend or repeal our bylaws; and •the authority of our board of directors to adopt certain amendments to our charter without shareholder approval to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series that we have authority to issue. For all of these reasons, shareholders may be unable to cause a change of control of us or to realize a change of control premium for their securities. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our directors and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our charter authorizes us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our charter requires us to indemnify each director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, from and against any claim or liability to which such person may become subject or which such person may incur by reason of his status as our director or officer. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against our company only if such proceeding is authorized by our board of directors. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our directors and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our charter or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. 22 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR NOTES AND COMMON SHARES The Notes we issued in October 2006 will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt. The Notes we issued in October 2006 are issued by our parent company and guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on the Notes will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Certain of our subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under the Notes and those subsidiaries and additional subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under our revolving credit facility. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, our non-guarantor subsidiaries had approximately $12.6 million of secured indebtedness outstanding, and we may add additional secured indebtedness that would effectively rank senior to the outstanding Notes, and any new notes we may issue. The Notes are unsecured and, as such, effectively subordinated to our secured debt. In addition, non-guarantor subsidiaries have substantial additional obligations, including trade payables and lease obligations, to which the Notes are and will be effectively subordinated. Our right to receive assets of any of our subsidiaries upon its liquidation or reorganization will be structurally subordinated to the claims of our subsidiaries' creditors, except to the extent that we are recognized as a creditor of such subsidiary, in which case our claims would still be subordinated to any security interests in the assets of such subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries that is senior to that held by us. In the event of our insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up, we and the subsidiaries that guarantee our outstanding Notes, or any new notes we may issue, may not have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on any or all such notes. We may be required to prepay our debts at the option of Note holders or upon a change of control. In certain change of control circumstances or if our common shares are no longer traded on a national securities exchange or on an established over the counter market in the United States, holders of our outstanding Notes may have the right to require us to purchase their Notes at their principal amount plus accrued interest. Holders of our Notes also have the right to require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes on each of October 15, 2013, October 15, 2016 and October 15, 2021; however, we may not have sufficient financial resources at those times to pay the repurchase price and our then existing indebtedness could restrict or prohibit the repurchase. Any notes we may issue in the future may have similar or even more onerous terms. If we redeem the Notes before maturity, our Note holders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. We may redeem all or a portion of our outstanding Notes at any time after October 20, 2011. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. If a redemption occurs, holders of these Notes may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the redeemed Notes. Notes we may issue in the future may also permit redemption before maturity and create similar risks. There may be no public market for our Notes. Although our outstanding Notes are traded in the Private Offerings, Resale and Trading through Automated Linkages Market of the Nasdaq, these Notes are not listed on any securities exchange. We can provide no assurance that an active trading market for these Notes will exist in the future. The limited liquidity of the trading market for our existing Notes, or any notes we may issue in the future, 23 Table of Contents and the market price quoted for such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for the senior living industry generally. Also, we recently purchased and retired $46.5 million face amount of our Notes. This purchase of our Notes by us reduced the number and amount of our Notes outstanding and may decrease the liquidity of our Notes. Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long term debt as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $160.8 million and represented approximately 65% of our total book capitalization as of that date. In addition to our indebtedness, we have substantial lease and other obligations. The indenture governing our outstanding Notes does not limit the amount of additional indebtedness, including senior or secured indebtedness, which we can create, incur, assume or guarantee, nor does the indenture limit the amount of indebtedness or other liabilities that our subsidiaries can create, incur, assume or guarantee. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors, because: •it could affect our ability to satisfy our debt obligations; •the portion of our cash flows from operations required to make interest and principal payments will not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; •it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and •it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general than a company with less debt leverage. Conversion rights of our outstanding Notes may be detrimental to holders of our common shares. Our outstanding Notes are convertible into our common shares in various circumstances. The initial conversion rate (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $13.00 per common share) is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of various events, including if we make dividends or distributions on our common shares. If a holder elects to convert these Notes in connection with a "make whole fundamental change", as defined in the indenture governing these Notes, that occurs on or prior to October 20, 2011, the conversion rate may be increased by a premium based on the market price of our common shares at the time. Make whole fundamental changes include certain transactions constituting a change of control, our liquidation, dissolution or similar events. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding Notes will dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. In addition, the existence of the outstanding convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of these Notes could depress the price of our common shares. These conversion rights also may make more difficult or discourage a party from taking over our company and removing incumbent management and may discourage or impede transactions that might otherwise be in the interests of our common shareholders. Any future issuance of convertible securities by us may create similar risks. Future issuances of common shares and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common shares. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and growth strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the 24 Table of Contents exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. Any issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of our outstanding Notes as described above, could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common shares and of the Notes. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends, holders who convert our outstanding Notes into our common shares will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common shares appreciates. The price of our common shares has fluctuated, and a number of factors may cause our common share price to decline. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors and events, including, but not limited to, the risks set out in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as: •the liquidity of the market for our common shares; •changes in our operating results; •changes in analysts' expectations; and •general economic and industry trends and conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Shareholders may be unable to resell our common shares at or above price at which they purchased our shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 