Risk factors Our businesses are exposed to a variety of risks that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, including, among others, those described below. Market risk We may incur significant losses on our trading and investment activities due to market fluctuations and volatility We maintain large trading and investment positions and hedges in the debt, currency, commodity and equity markets, and in private equity, real estate and other assets. These positions could be adversely affected by volatility in financial and other markets, that is, the degree to which prices fluctuate over a particular period in a particular market, regardless of market levels. To the extent that we own assets, or have net long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of our net long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets that we do not own, or have net short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially significant losses as we attempt to cover our net short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We have risk management techniques and policies designed to manage our market risk. These techniques and policies, however, may not be effective. For information on management of market risk, refer to Risk Management – Market risk in the Credit Suisse Group Annual Report 2005. Adverse market or economic conditions may cause a decline in net revenues As a global financial services company, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally in Europe, the US and elsewhere around the world. Adverse market or economic conditions could create a challenging operating environment for financial services companies. In particular, the impact of oil prices, interest rates and the risk of geopolitical events could materially affect financial markets and the economy. Movements in interest rates could affect our net interest income and the value of our trading and non-trading fixed income portfolios, and movements in equity markets could affect the value of our trading and non-trading equity portfolios. Future terrorist attacks, military conflicts and economic or political sanctions could have a material adverse effect on economic and market conditions, market volatility and financial activity. Private banking, corporate and retail banking, asset management and insurance businesses Unfavorable market or economic conditions could affect our private banking, corporate and retail banking, asset management and insurance businesses by reducing sales of our investment and insurance products and the volume of our asset management activities. In addition, a market downturn could reduce our commission income and fee income that is based on the value of our clients’ portfolios. Investment banking business Adverse market or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of investment banking transactions in which we provide underwriting, mergers and acquisitions advice or other services and, therefore, adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting fees. Such conditions could also lead to a decline in the volume of securities trades that we execute for customers and, therefore, adversely affect the net revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. Alternative Capital business Adverse market or economic conditions could negatively affect our private equity investments since, if a private equity investment substantially declines in value, we may not receive any increased share of the income and gains from such investment (to which we are entitled in certain cases when the return on such investment exceeds certain threshold returns), may be obligated to return to investors previously received excess carried interest payments and may lose our pro rata share of the capital invested. In addition, it could become more difficult to dispose of the investment, as even investments that are performing well may prove difficult to exit in weak initial public offering markets. In addition, we are exposed to market risk through our proprietary investments in hedge funds. We may incur significant losses in the real estate sector We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products, both for our own account and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets, and originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. We also securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages, and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. These businesses could be adversely affected by a downturn in the real estate sector. Our revenues may decline in line with declines in certain sectors Decreasing economic growth in a sector, such as the technology and telecommunications sectors, in which we make significant commitments, for example through underwriting or advisory services, could negatively affect net revenues of our investment banking business. Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to large losses Concentrations of risk could increase losses at our private banking, corporate and retail banking, investment banking and insurance businesses, which may have sizeable loans to and securities holdings in certain customers or industries. We maintain a system of risk limits designed to control concentration risks. These controls, however, may not be effective. Our hedging strategies may not prevent losses If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we use to hedge our exposure to various types of risk in our businesses is not effective, we may incur losses. We may only be partially hedged, or these strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. In addition, gains and losses resulting from certain ineffective hedges may result in volatility in our reported earnings. Market risk may increase the other risks that we face In addition to the potentially adverse effects on our businesses described above, market risk could exacerbate the other risks that we face. For example, if we were to incur substantial trading losses, our need for liquidity could rise sharply while access to liquidity could be impaired. In conjunction with a market downturn, our customers and counterparties could also incur substantial losses of their own, thereby weakening their financial condition and increasing our credit risk to them. Credit risk We may suffer significant losses from our credit exposures Our businesses are subject to the risk that borrowers and other counterparties will be unable to perform their obligations. Credit exposures exist within lending relationships, commitments and letters of credit, as well as derivative, foreign exchange and other transactions. For information on management of credit risk, refer to Risk management – Credit risk for the banking businesses in the Credit Suisse Group Annual Report 2005. Banking businesses Our banking businesses establish provisions for loan losses at a level deemed appropriate by management. Management’s determination of the provision for loan losses is subject to significant judgment, and our banking businesses may need to increase their provisions for loan losses or may record losses in excess of the previously determined provisions, and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For information on provisions for loan losses and related risk mitigation, refer to Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Critical accounting policies – Contingencies and loss provisions, and Risk management – Credit risk for the banking businesses in the Credit Suisse Group Annual Report 2005. Investment banking business In recent years, our investment banking business has significantly expanded its use of swaps and other derivatives. As a result, our credit exposures have increased and may continue to increase in amount and duration. In addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to assume longer-term credit risk, to extend credit against less liquid collateral and to price derivative instruments more aggressively based on the credit risks that we take. An increase in our investment bank’s provisions for credit losses, or any credit losses in excess of related provisions, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Insurance businesses We transfer a portion of our exposure to insurance risks through reinsurance arrangements. Under these arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and expenses associated with reported and unreported losses in exchange for premiums, but we are not discharged from our legal duty to pay claims on reinsured policies. Therefore, the inability of our reinsurers to meet their financial obligations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For further information relating to our reinsurance arrangements, refer to Risk management – Insurance risk – Risk structure in the insurance business in the Credit Suisse Group Annual Report 2005. Defaults by a large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally and us specifically Concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions because the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between institutions. This risk is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearinghouses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with which we interact on a daily basis, and could adversely affect us. The information that we use to manage our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit or trading risks of a counterparty. Cross border and foreign exchange risk Cross border risks may increase market and credit risks we face Country, regional and political risks are components of market and credit risk. Financial markets and economic conditions generally have been and may be materially affected by such risks. Economic or political pressures in a country or region, including those arising from local market disruptions, currency crises and monetary controls, may adversely affect the ability of clients or counterparties located in that country or region to obtain foreign exchange or credit and, therefore, to perform their obligations to us, which in turn may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We may face significant losses in emerging markets As a global financial services company, we are exposed to economic instability in emerging market countries. We monitor these risks, seek diversity in the sectors in which we invest and emphasize customer-driven business. Our efforts at containing emerging market risk, however, may not succeed. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations We are exposed to risk from fluctuations in exchange rates for currencies. In particular, a substantial portion of our assets and liabilities in our investment banking, asset management and insurance businesses are denominated in currencies other than the Swiss franc, which is the primary currency of our financial reporting. Exchange rate volatility may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Insurance underwriting risk Underwriting risk represents the exposure to loss resulting when actual policy experience differs from the assumptions made in product pricing. These assumptions include mortality, morbidity, surrender rates and expenses on life insurance products and claim frequency and severity on non-life insurance products. Earnings in our insurance businesses depend significantly on the assumptions made in pricing insurance products and establishing the liabilities for future benefits and claims to be paid and may be adversely affected if policy experience differs significantly from the assumptions we make. In our Non-Life business, our efforts to protect ourselves against catastrophe losses, through selective underwriting, reinsurance and monitoring of risk, may not be effective. For information relating to insurance underwriting risk, refer to Risk management – Insurance risk in the Credit Suisse Group Annual Report 2005. Liquidity risk Our liquidity could be impaired if we could not access the capital markets or sell our assets Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our businesses, particularly our investment banking business, which depend on continuous access to the debt capital and money markets to finance day-to-day operations. An inability to obtain financing in the unsecured long-term or short-term debt capital markets, or to access the secured lending markets, could have a substantial adverse effect on our liquidity. In a time of reduced liquidity, we may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may need to sell assets at depressed prices, which in either case could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our banking businesses may face asset-liability mismatches Our banking businesses meet most of their funding requirements using short-term funding sources, including primarily deposits, inter-bank loans, time deposits and cash bonds. However, we have assets with medium- or long-term maturities, creating a potential for funding mismatches. Although a substantial number of depositors have, in the past, rolled over their deposited funds upon maturity and deposits have been, over time, a stable source of funding, this may not continue to occur. In that case, our liquidity position could be adversely affected and we might be unable to meet deposit withdrawals on demand or at their contractual maturity, to repay borrowings as they mature or to fund new loans, investments and businesses. For further information relating to the assets and liabilities of our banking businesses, refer to Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Information required by Industry Guide 3 – Selected statistical information – Investment portfolios – Deposits and – Short-term borrowings. Our insurance businesses may face liquidity problems In the case of catastrophe losses, we may need to sell substantially more liquid investment assets than planned, which may cause us to realize a loss on those investments. In addition, our insurance businesses face a risk of asset and liability mismatches arising from our investment activities. Premiums are paid earlier than claims are settled and these funds must be invested in a manner that allows cash outflows at the appropriate time to meet liabilities, or it could affect our results of operations and financial condition. For information relating to the investments of our insurance businesses, refer to Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. Changes in our ratings may adversely affect our business Reductions in our assigned ratings, including in particular our credit ratings, could increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to capital markets and adversely affect the ability of our businesses to sell or market their products, engage in business transactions – particularly longer-term and derivatives transactions – and retain their customers. Ratings are assigned by rating agencies, which may reduce, indicate their intention to reduce or withdraw the ratings at any time. For more information relating to our credit ratings, refer to Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and capital resources. Operational risk We are exposed to a wide variety of operational risks Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. In general, our businesses face a wide variety of operational risks, including technology risk that stems from dependencies on information technology and the telecommunications infrastructure and business disruption, including the infrastructure supporting our businesses and/or the areas where our businesses or third-party suppliers are situated. As a global financial services company, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems, which are varied and complex. If any of these systems does not operate properly or is disabled, including as a result of terrorist attacks or other unforeseeable events, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to our clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We may suffer losses due to employee misconduct Our businesses are exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with policies, employee misconduct and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanction and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective. Legal and regulatory risks Our exposure to legal liability is significant We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation, regulatory proceedings and other adversarial proceedings against financial services firms are increasing. We and our subsidiaries are subject to a number of material legal proceedings, regulatory actions and investigations, and an adverse result in one or more of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon our results for such period. For information relating to these and other legal and regulatory proceedings involving our investment banking and other businesses, refer to Item 8 – Financial Information – Legal proceedings. It is inherently difficult to predict the outcome of many of the legal, regulatory and other adversarial proceedings involving our businesses, particularly those cases in which the matters are brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, seek damages of unspecified or indeterminate amounts or involve novel legal claims. For information on management’s judgments in relation to estimating losses and taking charges for legal, regulatory and arbitration proceedings, refer to Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Critical accounting policies. Extensive regulation of our businesses limits our activities and may subject us to significant penalties As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities, and self-regulatory organizations in Switzerland, Europe, the US and virtually all other jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Such regulation is becoming increasingly more extensive and complex. These regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements, and restrictions on the businesses in which we may operate or invest. Despite our best efforts to comply with applicable regulations, there are a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be unclear or where regulators revise their previous guidance or courts overturn previous rulings. Authorities in many jurisdictions have the power to bring administrative or judicial proceedings against us, which could result, among other things, in suspension or revocation of our licenses, cease and desist orders, fines, civil penalties, criminal penalties or other disciplinary action which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and seriously harm our reputation. Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement, may adversely affect our results of operations and capital requirements. For a description of our regulatory regime and capital requirements, refer to Item 4 – Information on the Company – Regulation and supervision. Legal restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our services We may be materially affected not only by regulations applicable to us as a financial services company, but also by regulations of general application. For example, the volume of our businesses in any one year could be affected by, among other things, existing and proposed tax legislation, antitrust and competition policies, corporate governance initiatives and other governmental regulations and policies and changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect business and the financial markets. Competition We face increased competition due to consolidation and new entrants We face intense competition in all financial services markets and for the products and services we offer. Consolidation, through mergers and acquisitions, alliances and cooperation, is increasing competition. Competition is based on many factors, including the products and services offered, pricing, distribution systems, customer service, brand recognition, perceived financial strength and the willingness to use capital to serve client needs. Consolidation has created a number of firms that, like us, have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from insurance, loans and deposit-taking to brokerage, investment banking and asset management services. Some of these firms may be able to offer a broader range of products than we do, or offer such products at more competitive prices. In addition, new lower-cost competitors may enter the market, and those competitors may not be subject to capital or regulatory requirements and may be able to offer their products and services on more favorable terms. Our competitive position could be harmed if our reputation is damaged In the highly competitive environment arising from globalization and convergence in the financial services industry, a reputation for financial strength and integrity is critical to our ability to attract and maintain customers. Our reputation could be harmed if our comprehensive procedures and controls fail, or appear to fail, to address conflicts of interest as we increase our client base and the scale of our businesses, prevent employee misconduct, produce materially accurate and complete financial and other information or prevent adverse legal or regulatory actions. We must recruit and retain highly skilled employees Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified employees is intense. We have devoted considerable resources to recruiting, training and compensating employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. We face competition from new trading technologies Our private banking, investment banking and asset management businesses face competitive challenges from new trading technologies. Securities and futures transactions are now being conducted through the Internet and other alternative, non-traditional trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. A dramatic increase in computer-based or other electronic trading may adversely affect our commission and trading revenues, exclude our businesses from certain transaction flows, reduce our participation in the trading markets and the associated access to market information and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. We may also be required to make additional expenditures to develop or invest in new trading systems or otherwise to invest in technology to maintain our competitive position. Financial services businesses that we acquire may not perform well or may prove difficult to integrate into our existing operations Even though we review the records of companies we plan to acquire, it is generally not feasible for us to review in detail all such records. Even an in-depth review of records may not reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to assess fully its capabilities and deficiencies. As a result, we may assume unanticipated liabilities, or an acquisition may not perform as well as expected. We also face the risk that we will not be able to integrate acquisitions into our existing operations effectively as a result of, among other things, differing procedures, business practices and technology systems, as well as difficulties in adapting an acquired company into our organizational structure. We face the risk that the returns on acquisitions will not support the expenditures or indebtedness incurred to acquire such businesses or the capital expenditures needed to develop such businesses. Moreover, if we fail to identify attractive businesses to acquire, we may be unable to expand our businesses as quickly or successfully as our competitors, which could adversely affect our results of operations and reputation. We may fail to realize the anticipated revenue growth and cost synergies from the integration of our banking businesses On the basis of our global integrated structure and single banking brand, officially launched on January 1, 2006, we aim to achieve revenue growth and cost synergies. However, to realize the anticipated benefits from the global integration, we must successfully combine components of our banking businesses in a manner that permits cost savings to be achieved while enhancing revenues. For a description of our integrated global bank initiative, refer to Information on the company – Organizational changes in 2006 in the Credit Suisse Group Annual Report 2005. We may be unable to sell non-core assets at favorable prices, or at all. Our ability to sell non-core assets and businesses, including our insurance business, at a favorable price may be adversely affected by poor business or market conditions. If we are delayed or precluded from selling our insurance or other non-core assets, owing to adverse market conditions or otherwise, it may adversely affect our results of operations and reputation. 