Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS A small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material negative impact upon our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our revenues were $1.28 billion and our operating expenses were $1.26 billion. A small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material negative impact on our operating results because some of our fixed costs, such as our base rent, would not decrease during times of lower economic activity. The failure of Medicare and Medicaid rates to match our costs will reduce our income or create losses. Some of our current operations, especially our SNFs, IRFs and pharmacy operations receive significant revenues from Medicare and Medicaid. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, we received approximately 28% and 27%, respectively, of our senior living revenues, 64% and 68%, respectively, of our hospital revenues and 50% and 55%, respectively, of our pharmacy revenues from these programs. The Obama Administration and some members of Congress have proposed Medicare and Medicaid policy changes and rate reductions to take effect during the next several years. PPACA includes provisions that reduce annual Medicare rate increases to account for inflation affecting IRFs and that may result in future payment rates for a fiscal year being less than payment rates for a preceding fiscal year for SNFs and IRFs. Effective as of October 1, 2011, CMS reduced aggregate Medicare payment rates for SNFs by an estimated 11.1% for federal fiscal year 2012. We expect this reduction to be material and adverse to our future financial results of operations. Pursuant to the Budget Control Act of 2011, the federal budget will include automatic spending reductions starting in 2013, including reductions of not more than 2% to Medicare providers, but exempting reductions to certain Medicaid and Medicare benefits. We are unable to predict the financial impact on us of the automatic payments cuts starting in 2013; however such impact may be adverse and material to our operations and our future financial results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Congress extended the process to allow medically necessary exceptions to annual caps on Medicare Part B payments for outpatient rehabilitation services to individual patients through February 29, 2012. We cannot predict whether the exception process will be extended beyond that date. Also, our Medicare Part B outpatient therapy revenue rates are tied to the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule that is scheduled to be reduced by approximately 27% on February 29, 2012, unless Congress extends the moratorium on the scheduled reduction. Failure to extend the moratorium would result in a similar reduction to our Medicare Part B rates for outpatient therapy services in our clinics and SNFs which may be materially adverse to our future financial results of operations. Some of the states in which we operate either have not raised Medicaid rates by amounts sufficient to offset increasing costs, have frozen or reduced Medicaid rates, or are expected to freeze or reduce Medicaid rates. Many states are experiencing difficult fiscal conditions, increasing the likelihood of Medicaid rate reductions, freezes or increases that are insufficient to offset increased operating costs. Also, certain temporary increases in federal payments to states for Medicaid programs ended as of June 30, 2011. The ending of these temporary federal payments, combined with the anticipated slow recovery of state revenues, has resulted in and is expected to result in continued difficult state fiscal conditions. Some state budget deficits likely will increase, and it is possible that certain states will reduce Medicaid payments to healthcare service providers like us as part of an effort to balance their budgets. We cannot currently estimate the magnitude of the potential Medicare and Medicaid rate reductions, the impact of the failure of these programs to increase rates to match increasing expenses and the impact on us of potential Medicare and Medicaid policy changes proposed by members of Congress and the Obama Administration, but they may be material to our operations and may affect our future results of operations. We cannot now predict whether future Medicare and Medicaid rates will be sufficient to cover our costs. Future Medicare and Medicaid rate declines or a failure of these rates to cover our costs could result in our experiencing materially lower earnings or losses. Circumstances that adversely affect the ability of seniors, or their families, to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on us. Our residents paid approximately 73% of our senior living revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011 from their private resources. We expect to continue to rely on the ability of our residents to pay for our services from their own financial resources. Inflation, continued high levels of unemployment, market declines affecting the value and liquidity of personal assets, or other circumstances that adversely affect the ability of the elderly or their families to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seniors' inability to sell real estate may delay their moving into senior living facilities. Recent and continuing housing price declines and reduced home mortgage financing availability have negatively affected the U.S. housing market. Many economists now predict a prolonged period with little improvement in housing markets. These current difficulties may have a negative effect on our revenues or lead to increased reliance on Medicare and Medicaid for our revenues. Specifically, if seniors have a difficult time selling their homes, fewer seniors may be able to relocate to our senior living communities or finance their stays at our facilities with private resources. Our rehabilitation hospitals may be subject to Medicare reclassifications resulting in lower Medicare rates, or to retroactive repayments. Medicare pays a significant amount of the revenues at our rehabilitation hospitals. For cost reporting periods starting on and after July 1, 2006, 60% of an IRF's total inpatient population must require intensive rehabilitation services associated with treatment of at least one of 13 designated medical conditions in order for the IRF to participate in the Medicare program. While we believe we are in compliance with the 60% Rule, and we expect to remain in compliance with this rule, we may 16 Table of Contents not be able to remain in compliance, or CMS could determine that we were non-compliant in a prior year. Such an event would result in these hospitals being subject to Medicare reclassification to a different type of provider and our receiving lower Medicare payment rates retroactively or prospectively. Reductions in our Medicare payments as a result of the reclassification of our rehabilitation hospitals would materially and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. If Congress enacts the Obama Administration's proposal to raise the 60% Rule to 75% beginning in federal fiscal year 2013, maintaining our compliance with the rule will become more difficult. Also, retroactive audits of Medicare claims submitted by IRFs and other providers are expanding, and CMS is recouping amounts paid for services determined by auditors not to have been medically necessary or not to meet Medicare criteria for coverage as billed. If our hospitals or clinics were required to make substantial retroactive repayments to Medicare, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Private third party payers continue to try to reduce healthcare costs. Private third party payers continue their efforts to control healthcare costs through direct contracts with healthcare providers, increased utilization review practices and greater enrollment in managed care programs and preferred provider organizations. These third party payers increasingly demand discounted fee structures and the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk. These continuing efforts of third party payers to limit the amount of payments we receive for healthcare services could adversely affect us. Reimbursement payments under third party payer programs may not remain at levels comparable to present levels or be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients participating in such programs. Future changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of third party payers, or the implementation of other measures to reduce payments for our services could result in a substantial reduction in our net operating revenues. At the same time, as a result of competitive pressures, our ability to maintain operating margins through price increases to private pay patients may be limited. Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act could reduce our income and increase our costs. PPACA contains insurance changes, payment changes and healthcare delivery systems changes that will affect us. PPACA includes provisions that will take effect in federal fiscal year 2012 that may result in SNF and IRF Medicare payment rates for a fiscal year being less than for the preceding fiscal year, by using a productivity factor to reduce annual updates for inflation. PPACA also reduced the Medicare IRF market basket update for inflation by 0.25% for federal fiscal years 2010 and 2011, for discharges on and after April 1, 2010. PPACA reduces Medicare IRF updates for inflation by amounts ranging from 0.1% to 0.3% for federal fiscal years 2012 through 2016, and by 0.75% for federal fiscal years 2017 through 2019. We are unable to predict the impact of these reductions on Medicare rates for SNFs and IRFs, but their impact may be adverse and material to our operations and our future financial results of operations. PPACA also establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board to submit legislative proposals to Congress and take other actions with a goal of reducing Medicare spending growth. When and if such spending reductions take effect they may be adverse and material to our financial results. PPACA includes various other changes that may affect us, including enforcement reforms and Medicare and Medicaid program integrity control initiatives, initiatives to encourage the development of home and community based long term care services rather than institutional services under Medicaid, and a Medicare post-acute care pilot program to develop and evaluate making a bundled payment for services, including hospital, physician, SNF and IRF services, provided during an episode of care. We are unable to predict the impact on us of the insurance reforms, payment reforms, and healthcare delivery systems reforms contained in and to be developed pursuant to PPACA. If the changes to be implemented under PPACA result in reduced payments for 17 Table of Contents our services or the failure of Medicare, Medicaid or insurance payment rates to cover our increasing costs, our future financial results could be adversely and materially affected. Increases in our labor costs may have a material adverse effect on us. Wages and employee benefits were approximately 52% of our 2011 total operating costs. We compete with other operators of senior living communities and rehabilitation hospitals to attract and retain qualified personnel responsible for the day to day operations of each of our communities. The market for qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive. Periodic and geographic area shortages of nurses or other trained personnel may require us to increase the wages and benefits offered to our employees in order to attract and retain these personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. Also, we may have to compete with numerous other employers for lesser skilled workers. Further, when we acquire new facilities, we may be required to pay increased compensation or offer other incentives to retain key personnel and other employees. Employee benefits costs, including employee health insurance and workers' compensation insurance costs, have materially increased in recent years. Although we have determined our self insurance reserves with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may be inadequate. Increasing employee health and workers' compensation insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves for labor related insurance may materially and negatively affect our earnings. No assurance can be given that our labor costs will not increase or that any increase will be matched by corresponding increases in rates we charge to residents. Any significant failure by us to control our labor costs or to pass on any increased labor costs to residents through rate increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Successful union organization of our employees may adversely affect our business performance and results of operations. From time to time labor unions attempt to organize our employees. Certain of our employees have already chosen union representation. If federal legislation modifies the labor laws to make it easier for employee groups to unionize, then additional groups of employees may seek union representation. If more of our employees unionize it could result in business interruptions, work stoppages, the degradation of service levels at our senior living communities and rehabilitation hospitals due to work rules, or increased operating expenses that may adversely affect our financial results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which increases our costs and may result in losses. Licensing and Medicare and Medicaid laws require operators of senior living communities, rehabilitation hospitals, clinics, and pharmacies to comply with extensive standards governing operations and physical environments. Various federal and state laws also prohibit fraud and abuse by senior living and rehabilitation hospital and clinic operators and pharmacy providers, including civil and criminal laws that prohibit false claims and that regulate patient referrals in Medicare, Medicaid and other programs. In recent years, federal and state governments have devoted increased resources to monitoring the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti-fraud investigations in healthcare generally. CMS contractors are expanding the retroactive audits of Medicare claims submitted by IRFs, SNFs and other providers, and recouping alleged overpayments for services determined by auditors not to have been medically necessary or not to meet Medicare coverage criteria as billed. State Medicaid programs and other third party payers are conducting similar medical necessity and compliance audits. When federal or state agencies identify violations of anti-fraud, false claims, anti-kickback and physician referral laws, they may impose or seek civil or criminal penalties, treble damages and other governmental sanctions, and may revoke the healthcare facility's license or make conditional or exclude the healthcare facility from Medicare or Medicaid participation. When federal or state agencies identify quality of care deficiencies or uncover improper billing, they may 18 Table of Contents impose or seek various remedies or sanctions, including denial of new admissions, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid program participation, monetary penalties, restitution of overpayments, governmental oversight, temporary management, loss of licensure and criminal penalties. Certain states and the federal government may determine that citations affecting one facility affect other facilities operated by the same entity or related entities. Such a determination may affect an operator's ability to maintain or renew other licenses or Medicare or Medicaid certifications or to secure new licenses or certifications. Our communities incur sanctions and penalties from time to time. As a result of this extensive regulatory system and increasing enforcement initiatives, we have experienced increased costs for monitoring quality of care compliance, billing procedures, and compliance with referral laws and other laws that apply to us, and we expect these costs may continue to increase. Also, we have been subjected to sanctions and penalties in the past but none have been material to us; and if we become subject to additional regulatory sanctions or repayment obligations at any of our existing facilities, or as a result of purchasing facilities with prior deficiencies which we are unable to correct or resolve, our business may be adversely affected and we might experience financial losses. Any adverse determination concerning any of our licenses or eligibility for Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement or any substantial penalties, repayments, or sanctions, and the increasing costs of required compliance with applicable federal and state laws, may adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our business exposes us to litigation risks. The nature of our business exposes us to litigation, and we are subject to lawsuits in the ordinary course of our business. In several well publicized instances, private litigation by residents of senior living communities for alleged abuses has resulted in large damage awards against other operating companies. Today, some lawyers and law firms specialize in bringing litigation against senior living companies. As a result of this litigation and potential litigation, our cost of liability insurance has increased during the past few years. Medical liability insurance reform has become a topic of political debate and some states have enacted legislation to limit future liability awards. However, such reforms have not been generally adopted and we expect our insurance costs may continue to increase. Although our reserves for liability self insurance have been determined with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may prove inadequate. Increasing liability insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves may materially negatively affect our results of operations, cause us to experience losses or make our financial results less consistent than they would otherwise be. Our growth strategy may not succeed. We have grown our business through acquisitions, through initiation of long term leases of independent and assisted living communities where residents' private resources account for a large majority of revenues and through entering into long term contracts to manage independent and assisted living communities. Our business plan includes taking advantage of an increasing demand for senior living facilities and acquiring additional senior living communities. Our growth strategy involves risks, including the following: •we may be unable to locate senior living communities that receive a large percentage of their revenues from private resources; •we may be unable to locate senior living communities available for purchase at acceptable prices; •we may be unable to access capital to make acquisitions or operate acquired businesses; •acquired operations may not perform in accord with our expectations; 19 Table of Contents •we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to improve acquired facilities, including capital expenditures that may not have been anticipated by us at the time of the acquisition; •we may have difficulty retaining key employees and other personnel at acquired facilities; •acquired operations may subject us to unanticipated contingent liabilities or regulatory problems; •to the extent we incur acquisition debt or leases, our operating leverage and resulting risks of debt defaults may increase; and, to the extent we issue additional equity to fund our acquisitions, our stockholders' percentage of ownership will be diluted; and •combining our present operations with newly acquired operations may disrupt operations or cost more than anticipated. For these reasons and others: •our business plan to grow may not succeed; •the benefits which we hope to achieve by growing may not be achieved; •we may suffer declines in profitability or suffer recurring losses; and •our existing operations may suffer from a lack of management attention or financial resources if such attention and resources are devoted to a failed growth strategy. When we acquire or take on new communities, we sometimes see a decline in community occupancy and it may take a period of time for us to stabilize acquired community operations. Our efforts to restore occupancy or stabilize acquired communities' operations may not be successful. In addition, rehabilitation hospitals and pharmacies are businesses with which we have limited experience, and our initiatives in these areas may not be successful. Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our Credit Agreement would adversely affect our business. Our revolving line of credit and security agreement, or our Credit Agreement, includes various conditions to our borrowing and various financial and other covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our Credit Agreement we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell some of our properties. If we default under our Credit Agreement at a time when borrowed amounts are outstanding under this instrument, our lenders may demand immediate payment. Any default under our Credit Agreement would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our securities to materially decline. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities that may require a significant amount of management resources and costs. We continue to seek acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we are often engaged in evaluating potential transactions and other strategic alternatives. In addition, from time to time, we engage in preliminary discussions that may result in one or more transactions. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transaction, we may devote a significant amount of our management resources to such transactions, which could negatively impact our existing and continuing operations. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with seeking acquisitions regardless of whether these acquisitions are completed. 20 Table of Contents Failure to comply with laws governing the privacy and security of personal information, including information relating to health, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to comply with federal and state laws governing the privacy, security, use and disclosure of individually identifiable information, including information relating to health. Under HIPAA, we are required to comply with the HIPAA privacy rule, security standards, and standards for electronic healthcare transactions. State laws also govern the privacy of individual health information, and rules regarding state privacy rights may be more stringent than HIPAA. Other federal and state laws govern the privacy of other personal information. If we fail to comply with applicable federal or state standards, we could be subject to civil sanctions and criminal penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and manage or support a variety of business processes, including medical records, financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, payroll data and workforce scheduling information. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential patient, resident and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to health. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Termination of assisted living resident agreements and resident attrition could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. State regulations governing assisted living facilities typically require a written resident agreement with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate our assisted living resident agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, most resident agreements allow residents to terminate their agreements on 30 days' notice. Thus, we cannot contract with assisted living residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with terms of up to a year or longer. If a large number of residents elected to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, our revenues and earnings could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the advanced ages of our senior living residents mean that the resident turnover rate in our senior living communities is difficult to predict. 21 Table of Contents Our business requires us to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve our facilities. Our communities sometimes require significant expenditures to address ongoing required maintenance and to make them attractive to residents. Physical characteristics of senior living communities and rehabilitation hospitals are mandated by various governmental authorities; changes in these regulations may require us to make significant expenditures. In addition, we often are required to make significant capital expenditures when we acquire new facilities. Our available financial resources may be insufficient to fund these expenditures. In addition to capital expenditures we are making at some of our senior living communities, we expect to make certain capital expenditures at our rehabilitation hospitals. SNH has historically provided most of the capital we need to improve the properties we lease from them; however, whenever SNH provides such capital, our rent increases and we may be unable to pay the increased rent without experiencing losses. Our business is highly competitive and we may be unable to operate profitably. We compete with numerous other companies that provide senior living, rehabilitation hospital and pharmacy services, including home healthcare companies and other real estate based service providers. Although some states require certificates of need to develop new SNFs and assisted living communities, there are fewer barriers to competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. Many of our existing competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than us. Some of our competitors are not for profit entities which have endowment income and may not have the same financial pressures that we face. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to attract a sufficient number of residents to our communities or that we will be able to attract employees and keep wages and other employee benefits, insurance costs and other operating expenses at levels which will allow us to compete successfully or to operate profitably. We are subject to possible conflicts of interest; we have engaged in, and expect to continue to engage in, transactions with parties that may be considered related parties. Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest as follows: •as of December 31, 2011, we leased from SNH 188 of our 245 senior living communities (including one that we have classified as discontinued operations) and our two rehabilitation hospitals for total annual rent of approximately $195.2 million plus percentage rent based on increases in gross revenues at certain properties; •As of December 31, 2011, we managed 22 senior living communities which are owned by SNH, and during 2011, we realized $835,000 in management fees from SNH plus reimbursement of approximately $19.8 million of operating expenses which we incurred at these managed communities; •we purchase various management services from RMR, the manager of SNH, and we lease our headquarters building from an affiliate of RMR; •our Chief Executive Officer, Bruce J. Mackey Jr., our Chief Financial Officer, Paul V. Hoagland and our General Counsel, Vern D. Larkin, are also employees of RMR, our Managing Directors, Barry M. Portnoy and Gerard M. Martin, are directors of RMR, Mr. Barry Portnoy is a managing trustee of SNH and is also the majority beneficial owner and the chairman of RMR; and •RMR's simultaneous contractual obligations to us and SNH create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest, and under the Business Management Agreement with RMR, in the event of a conflict between SNH and us, RMR may act on behalf of SNH rather than on our behalf. 22 Table of Contents On December 31, 2001, SNH distributed substantially all of its ownership of our common shares to its shareholders. Simultaneously with the spin off, we entered into agreements with SNH and RMR which, among other things, limit (subject to certain exceptions) ownership of more than 9.8% of our voting shares, restrict our ability to take any action that could jeopardize the tax status of SNH as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, and limit our ability to acquire real estate of types which are owned by SNH or other businesses managed by RMR. As a result of these agreements, our leases and management contracts with SNH, and our business management agreement with RMR, SNH, RMR and their respective affiliates have significant roles in our business and we do not anticipate any changes to those roles in the future. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, SNH owned 4.2 million of our common shares, or approximately 8.8% of our outstanding common shares, and SNH is our largest shareholder. We believe our affiliations with SNH and RMR have been and will be beneficial to us. Although we do not believe the potential conflicts have adversely affected, or will adversely affect, our business, not everyone may agree with our position. In the past, in particular following periods of financial distress or volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholder litigation, dissident stockholder director nominations and dissident stockholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with directors, affiliated persons and entities. Our relationships with SNH, RMR, Messrs. Portnoy and Martin, and RMR affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention, even if the allegations are not substantiated. Our leases of certain of our senior living communities are subordinated to mortgage debt of SNH, and a default by SNH could result in the termination of those leases. Our leases with SNH for 58 of our senior living communities, which had 2011 revenues totaling $329.3 million, are subordinated to mortgage financing secured by such communities. As a result, in the event SNH was to default on such mortgage financing, by reason of our default under our leases or for reasons unrelated to us or beyond our control, and its lender were to foreclose on such properties, our leases would terminate as a matter of law. While we may be able to enter into new leases with the lenders or the purchaser or purchasers of such properties, or they may elect to continue our occupancy under the terms of the lease as if there had been no foreclosure, such parties are not obligated to pursue either such option and, if we are able to retain possession, the terms of our continued occupancy may not be as favorable to us as those contained in our leases with SNH. If we do not enter into new leases of such communities following a foreclosure, we would lose the right to continue to operate these facilities and may incur material obligations to residents, employees and other parties as a result of such loss, each of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Disputes with SNH and RMR and stockholder litigation against us or our Directors and officers may be referred to arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with SNH and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration. Similarly our bylaws provide that actions by our stockholders against us or against our Directors and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration. As a result, we and our stockholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against SNH, RMR, or our Directors and officers. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such proceedings. 23 Table of Contents Climate change legislation and resulting increased energy costs at our communities could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The current political debate about world climate changes has resulted in various existing and proposed treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe treaties, laws and regulations which may limit carbon emissions may cause energy costs at our communities to increase. In the longer term, we believe any such increased costs will be passed through and paid by our patients, residents and other customers in higher charges for our services. However, in the short term, these increased costs, if material in amount, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience losses from our business dealings with Affiliates Insurance Company. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in AIC, we have purchased substantially all our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we are currently investigating the possibilities to expand our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR, SNH and four other companies to which RMR provides management services each own approximately 14.29% of AIC and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. These beneficial financial results may not occur and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may be insufficiently capitalized. Accordingly, our anticipated financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may be delayed or not achieved, and we may experience losses from these dealings. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our charter, bylaws and certain material agreements, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may prevent our stockholders from receiving a takeover premium or implementing beneficial changes. Our charter and bylaws contain separate provisions which prohibit any stockholder from owning more than 9.8% and 5% of the number or value of any class or series of our outstanding shares of stock. These provisions inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our charter and bylaws and under Maryland law may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be considered beneficial by some stockholders, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Directors into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year and in each case, until a successor is elected and qualifies, which could delay a change in our control; •stockholder voting rights and standards for the election of Directors and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Directors than for actions which are approved by our Directors; •the power of our Board of Directors, without a stockholders' vote, to authorize and issue additional shares and create classes of shares on terms that it determines; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Director and a requirement that certain of our Directors be "Independent Directors" and other Directors be "Managing Directors" as defined in our bylaws; 24 Table of Contents •limitations on the ability of, and various requirements that must be satisfied in order for, our stockholders to propose nominees for election as Directors and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders; •limitations on the ability of our stockholders to remove our Directors; •the authority of our Board of Directors, and not our stockholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; •because of our ownership of AIC, we are an insurance holding company under applicable state law; accordingly, anyone who intends to solicit proxies for a person to serve as one of our Directors or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Directors may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators; and •the authority of our Board of Directors to adopt certain amendments to our charter without stockholder approval to increase or decrease the number of shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series that we have authority to issue. The terms of our leases and management contracts with SNH and our business management agreement with RMR provide that our rights under these agreements may be cancelled by SNH and RMR, respectively, upon the acquisition by any person or group of more than 9.8% of our voting stock, and upon other change in control events, as defined in those documents including, in certain of the SNH leases, the adoption of any proposal (other than a precatory proposal) or the election to our Board of Directors of any individual if such proposal or individual was not approved, nominated or appointed, as the case may be, by vote of a majority of our Directors in office immediately prior to the making of such proposal or the nomination or appointment of such individual. If the breach of these ownership limitations causes a lease default, stockholders causing the default may become liable to us or to other stockholders for damages. Additionally, we maintain a rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our stockholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or our property at a discount. In addition, a termination of our business management agreement , or a change in control event of us, including upon, the acquisition by any person or group of more than 9.8% of our voting stock, is a default under our credit facility unless approved by our lender. Also, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our stockholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for securities they own or otherwise effect a change of our policies or a change of our control. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our Directors and officers are limited. Our charter limits the liability of our Directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Directors and officers will not have any liability to us and our stockholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by such director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our charter and contractual obligations authorize and may require us to indemnify our present and former Directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our charter or 25 Table of Contents bylaws or by our Board of Directors or stockholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Directors and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Directors and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our charter and contracts or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. RISKS RELATED TO OUR NOTES AND COMMON SHARES Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt. We conduct substantially all of our business through subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on the outstanding Notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Certain of our subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under the Notes and those subsidiaries and additional subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under our Credit Agreement. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, our subsidiaries which have not guaranteed the Notes had approximately $47.4 million of secured indebtedness outstanding, and we may incur additional secured indebtedness that would effectively rank senior to the outstanding Notes. The Notes are unsecured and, as such, effectively subordinated to our secured debt. In addition, non-guarantor subsidiaries have substantial additional obligations, including trade payables and lease obligations, to which the Notes are and will be effectively subordinated. Our right to receive assets of any of our subsidiaries upon its liquidation or reorganization will be structurally subordinated to the claims of our subsidiaries' creditors, except to the extent that we are recognized as a creditor of such subsidiary, in which case our claims would still be subordinated to any security interests in the assets of such subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries that is senior to that held by us. In the event of our insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up, we and the subsidiaries that guarantee the Notes, or any new notes we may issue, may not have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on any or all such notes. We may be required to prepay our debts upon a change of control. In certain change of control circumstances, current and future noteholders and some of our lenders may have the right to require us to purchase the notes which they own or repay our debt owing to them at their principal amount plus accrued interest and a premium. The Notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of the Notes permit us, and the terms of future notes may permit us, to redeem all or a portion of the Notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the outstanding Notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. There is currently a limited trading market for the Notes. In addition, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. There is no assurance that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. 26 Table of Contents Even if a market develops, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for the senior living industry generally. Also, we have purchased and retired $89.2 million face amount of the outstanding Notes. These purchases reduced the number and amount of outstanding Notes and may decrease the liquidity of the Notes. Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long term debt as of December 31, 2011 was approximately $76.0 million and represented approximately 21% of our total book capitalization as of that date. In addition to our indebtedness, we have substantial lease and other obligations. The indenture governing the Notes does not limit the amount of additional indebtedness, including senior or secured indebtedness, which we can create, incur, assume or guarantee, nor does the indenture limit the amount of indebtedness or other liabilities that our subsidiaries can create, incur, assume or guarantee. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors, because: •it could affect our ability to satisfy our debt obligations; •the portion of our cash flows from operations required to make interest and principal payments will not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; •it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and •it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general than a company with less debt leverage. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends, holders who convert the outstanding Notes into our common shares will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common shares appreciates. The price of our common shares has fluctuated, and a number of factors may cause our common share price to decline. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors and events, including, but not limited to, the risks set out in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as: •the liquidity of the market for our common shares; •changes in our operating results; •changes in analysts' expectations; and •general economic and industry trends and conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Stockholders may be unable to resell our common shares at or above the price at which they purchased our common shares. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 