ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in an emerging market, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Robots represent a new and emerging market. Accordingly, our business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which demand for consumer robots will increase, if at all. Moreover, there are only a limited number of major programs under which the U.S. federal government is currently funding the development or purchase of military robots. You should consider the challenges, risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies using new and unproven business models in rapidly evolving markets. These challenges include our ability to: • generate sufficient revenue and gross margin to maintain profitability; • acquire and maintain market share in our consumer and military markets; • manage growth in our operations; • attract and retain customers of our consumer robots; • develop and renew government contracts for our military robots; • attract and retain additional engineers and other highly-qualified personnel; • adapt to new or changing policies and spending priorities of governments and government agencies; and • access additional capital when required and on reasonable terms. If we fail to successfully address these and other challenges, risks and uncertainties, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially harmed. Our financial results often vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. For instance, our consumer product revenue is significantly seasonal. For the fiscal years ended December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, we generated 58.6% and 74.6%, respectively, of our revenue from sales of consumer products in the second half of the year. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as equity research analysts and investors respond to these quarterly fluctuations. These fluctuations will be due to numerous factors including: • seasonality in the sales of our consumer products; • the size and timing of orders from retail stores for our home care robots; • the size and timing of orders from military and other government agencies; • the mix of products that we sell in the period; • disruption of supply of our products from our manufacturers; • the inability to attract and retain qualified, revenue-generating personnel; • unanticipated costs incurred in the introduction of new products; 18 Table of Contents • costs and availability of labor and raw materials; • costs of freight; • changes in our rate of returns for our consumer products; • our ability to introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis; • price reductions; • warranty costs associated with our consumer products; • the amount of government funding and the political, budgetary and purchasing constraints of our government agency customers; and • cancellations, delays or contract amendments by government agency customers. Predicting revenue for any particular quarter and from sales of our consumer products includes many challenges. Chain stores and other national retailers typically place orders for the holiday season in the third quarter and early in the fourth quarter. The timing of these holiday season shipments could materially affect our third or fourth quarter results in any fiscal year. Because of quarterly fluctuations, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Moreover, our operating results may not meet expectations of equity research analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly or over time. Global economic conditions and any associated impact on consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continued economic uncertainty and reductions in consumer spending may result in reductions in sales of our consumer robots, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, recent disruptions in national and international credit markets have lead to a scarcity of credit, tighter lending standards and higher interest rates on consumer and business loans. Continued disruptions in credit markets may materially limit consumer credit availability and restrict credit availability of our retail customers, which would also impact purchases of our consumer robots. Any reduction in sales of our consumer robots, resulting from reductions in consumer spending or continued disruption in the availability of credit to retailers or consumers, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future profitability may fluctuate, and we have a limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business. As of December 27, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $10.9 million. Over the past five years, our accumulated deficit has decreased by $16.2 million due to annual operating profitability. Because we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, there are challenges to predicting our future operating results, and we cannot be certain that our revenues will grow at rates that will allow us to maintain profitability during every fiscal quarter, or even every fiscal year. In addition, we only have limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business. Failure to maintain profitability may result in the loss access to capital under our existing credit arrangements. A majority of our business currently depends on our consumer robots, and our sales growth and operating results would be negatively impacted if we are unable to enhance our current consumer robots or develop new consumer robots at competitive prices or in a timely manner. For the years ended December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, we derived 56.4% and 58.0% of our total revenue from our consumer robots, respectively. For the foreseeable future, we expect that a significant portion of our revenue will continue to be derived from sales of consumer robots in general and home floor care products in particular. Accordingly, our future success depends upon our ability to further penetrate the consumer home care market, to enhance our current consumer products and develop and introduce new consumer products offering enhanced performance and functionality at competitive prices. The development and application of new 19 Table of Contents technologies involve time, substantial costs and risks. Our inability to achieve significant sales of our newly introduced robots, or to enhance, develop and introduce other products in a timely manner, or at all, would materially harm our sales growth and operating results. We depend on the U.S. federal government for a significant portion of our revenue, and any reduction in the amount of business that we do with the U.S. federal government would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. For the years ended December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, we derived 40.3% and 34.9% of our total revenue, respectively, directly or indirectly, from the U.S. federal government and its agencies. Any reduction in the amount of revenue that we derive from a limited number of U.S. federal government agencies without an offsetting increase in new sales to other customers would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our participation in specific major U.S. federal government programs is critical to both the development and sale of our military robots. For example, in the years ended December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, 56.7% and 45.0% of our contract revenue was derived from our participation in the U.S. Army’s Future Combat Systems program, respectively. Future sales of our PackBot robots will depend largely on our ability to secure contracts with the U.S. military under its robot programs. We expect that there will continue to be only a limited number of major programs under which U.S. federal government agencies will seek to fund the development of, or purchase, robots. Our business will, therefore, suffer if we are not awarded, either directly or indirectly through third-party contractors, government contracts for robots that we are qualified to develop or build. In addition, if the U.S. federal government or government agencies terminate or reduce the related prime contract under which we serve as a subcontractor, revenues that we derive under that contract could be lost, which would negatively impact our business and financial results. Moreover, it is difficult to predict the timing of the award of government contracts and our revenue could fluctuate significantly based on the timing of any such awards. Even if we continue to receive funding for research and development under these contracts, there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the development of robots pursuant to these contracts or that, if successfully developed, the U.S. federal government or any other customer will purchase these robots from us. The U.S. federal government has the right when it contracts to use the technology developed by us to have robots supplied by third parties. Any failure by us to complete the development of these robots, or to achieve successful sales of these robots, would harm our business and results of operations. Our contracts with the U.S. federal government contain certain provisions that may be unfavorable to us and subject us to government audits, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. Our contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. federal government subject us to certain risks and give the U.S. federal government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including rights that allow the U.S. federal government to: • terminate contracts for convenience, in whole or in part, at any time and for any reason; • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints change; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • exercise production priorities, which allow it to require that we accept government purchase orders or produce products under its contracts before we produce products under other contracts, which may displace or delay production of more profitable orders; • claim certain rights in products provided by us; and • control or prohibit the export of certain of our products. Several of our prime contracts with the U.S. federal government do not contain a limitation of liability provision, creating a risk of responsibility for direct and consequential damages. Several subcontracts with prime contractors hold the prime contractor harmless against liability that stems from our work and do not contain a limitation of liability. These provisions could cause substantial liability for us, especially given the use to which our products may be put. 20 Table of Contents In addition, we are subject to audits by the U.S. federal government as part of routine audits of government contracts. As part of an audit, these agencies may review our performance on contracts, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If any of our costs are found to be allocated improperly to a specific contract, the costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed for such contract may have to be refunded. Accordingly, an audit could result in a material adjustment to our revenue and results of operations. Moreover, if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the government. If any of the foregoing were to occur, or if the U.S. federal government otherwise ceased doing business with us or decreased the amount of business with us, our business and operating results could be materially harmed and the value of your investment in our common stock could be impaired. Some of our contracts with the U.S. federal government allow it to use inventions developed under the contracts and to disclose technical data to third parties, which could harm our ability to compete. Some of our contracts allow the U.S. federal government rights to use, or have others use, patented inventions developed under those contracts on behalf of the government. Some of the contracts allow the federal government to disclose technical data without constraining the recipient in how that data is used. The ability of third parties to use patents and technical data for government purposes creates the possibility that the government could attempt to establish additional sources for the products we provide that stem from these contracts. It may also allow the government the ability to negotiate with us to reduce our prices for products we provide to it. The potential that the government may release some of the technical data without constraint creates the possibility that third parties may be able to use this data to compete with us in the commercial sector. Government contracts are subject to a competitive bidding process that can consume significant resources without generating any revenue. Government contracts are frequently awarded only after formal competitive bidding processes, which are protracted. In many cases, unsuccessful bidders for government agency contracts are provided the opportunity to protest certain contract awards through various agency, administrative and judicial channels. If any of the government contracts awarded to us are protested, we may be required to expend substantial time, effort and financial resources without realizing any revenue with respect to the potential contract. The protest process may substantially delay our contract performance, distract management and result in cancellation of the contract award entirely. We depend on single source manufacturers, and our reputation and results of operations would be harmed if these manufacturers fail to meet our requirements. We currently depend on one contract manufacturer, Jetta Company Limited, to manufacture our Roomba 400 series and Scooba series of home robot products at a single plant in China, and one contract manufacturer, Kin Yat Industrial Co Limited, to manufacture our Roomba 500 series of home robot products at a single plant in China. Moreover, we rely on one contract manufacturer, Gem City Engineering and Manufacturing, to manufacture our PackBot products at a single plant in the United States. In 2009, we will manufacture our Negotiator products at a single plant in India. We do not have a long-term contract with Jetta Company Limited and the manufacture of our consumer products is provided on a purchase-order basis. These manufacturers supply substantially all of the raw materials and provide all facilities and labor required to manufacture our products. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture our products until replacement contract manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production is a costly and time-consuming process. We cannot assure you that we would be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. 21 Table of Contents Our reliance on these contract manufacturers involves certain risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • lack of enforceable contractual provisions over the production and costs of consumer products; • risk of loss of inventory while in transit from China or India; and • risks associated with international commerce with China and India, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs and trade policies, risks associated with the protection of intellectual property and political and economic instability. Any interruption in the manufacture of our products would be likely to result in delays in shipment, lost sales and revenue and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would harm our business and results of operations. In addition, while our contract obligations with our contract manufacturers in China are typically denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates could impact our suppliers and increase our prices. Any efforts to expand our product offerings beyond our current markets may not succeed, which could negatively impact our operating results. We have focused on selling our robots in the home floor care and military markets. We plan to expand into other markets. For example, we have devoted significant time and incurred expenses in connection with the development of our Looj gutter cleaning robot. In addition, we have devoted significant time and incurred expenses in connection with the development of the Negotiator product for the civil law enforcement and the Seaglider product for the maritime market. Efforts to expand our product offerings beyond the two markets that we currently serve, however, may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business, either of which could significantly impair our operating results. Moreover, efforts to expand beyond our existing markets may never result in new products that achieve market acceptance, create additional revenue or become profitable. If we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our headcount and operations are growing rapidly. This rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. From December 29, 2007 to December 27, 2008, the number of our employees increased from 423 to 479. We anticipate further growth will be required to address increases in our product offerings and the geographic scope of our customer base. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage this growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train, manage and integrate a significant number of qualified managers and employees. If our new employees perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or retaining these or our existing employees, our business may suffer. In addition, we face risks associated with managing operations outside the United States, including operations in Hong Kong, China, India and the United Kingdom. To manage the expected continued growth of our headcount and operations, we will need to continue to improve our information technology infrastructure, operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures, and manage expanded operations in geographically distributed locations. Our expected additional headcount and capital investments will increase our costs, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense reductions in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to successfully execute our business plan, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If the consumer robot market does not experience significant growth or if our products do not achieve broad acceptance, we will not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of our consumer robots, including our home care robots. For the years ended December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, consumer robots accounted for 56.4% and 58.0%, respectively, of our total revenue. We face challenges in predicting the future growth rate or the size of the consumer robot market in general or the home care robot market in particular. Demand for home care robots may not increase, or may decrease, either generally or in specific geographic markets, for particular types of robots or during particular time periods. The expansion of the home robot market and the market for our products depends on a number of factors, such as: • the cost, performance and reliability of our products and products offered by our competitors; • public perceptions regarding the effectiveness and value of robots; • customer satisfaction with robots; and • marketing efforts and publicity regarding robots. Even if consumer robots gain wide market acceptance, our robots may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance. If robots generally, or our robots specifically, do not gain wide market acceptance, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth, and our revenue and results of operations would suffer. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by significant changes in the policies and spending priorities of governments and government agencies. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to and contracts with U.S. federal, state and local governments and government agencies, and subcontracts under federal government prime contracts. For the years ended December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, U.S. federal government orders, contracts and subcontracts accounted for 40.3% and 34.9%, respectively, of our total revenue. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts either directly or through prime contractors. Many of our government customers are subject to stringent budgetary constraints and our continued performance under these contracts, or award of additional contracts from these agencies, could be jeopardized by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these agencies. We cannot assure you that future levels of expenditures and authorizations will continue for governmental programs in which we provide products and services. A significant decline in government expenditures generally, or with respect to programs for which we provide products, could adversely affect our government product and funded research and development revenues and prospects, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results may also be negatively impacted by other developments that affect these governments and government agencies generally, including: • changes in government programs that are related to our products and services; • adoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations; • changes in political or public support for security and defense programs; • delays or changes in the government appropriations process; • uncertainties associated with the war on terror and other geo-political matters; and • delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. These developments and other factors could cause governments and governmental agencies, or prime contractors that use us as a subcontractor, to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from renewing contracts, any of which would cause our revenue to decline and could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We face intense competition from other providers of robots, including diversified technology providers, as well as competition from providers offering alternative products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cause our market share to decline. We believe that a number of companies have developed or are developing robots that will compete directly with our product offerings. Additionally, large and small companies, government-sponsored laboratories and universities are aggressively pursuing contracts for robot-focused research and development. Many current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and manufacturing resources than we possess, and there can be no assurance that our current and future competitors will not be more successful than us. Moreover, while we believe many of our customers purchase our floor vacuuming robots as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, their traditional vacuum cleaners; we also compete in some cases with providers of traditional vacuum cleaners. Our current principal competitors include: • developers of robot floor care products such as AB Electrolux, Alfred Kärcher GmbH & Co., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., LG Electronics Inc., Infinuvo/Metapo, Inc, Matsutek Enterprises Co Ltd., Microrobot CO., Ltd., ACE ROBOT Co., Ltd. and Yujin Robotic Co. Ltd. • developers of small unmanned ground vehicles such as Foster-Miller, Inc. — a wholly owned subsidiary of QinetiQ North America, Inc., Allen-Vanguard Corporation, and Remotec — a division of Northrop Grumman Corporation; and • established government contractors working on unmanned systems such as Lockheed Martin Corporation, the Boeing Company, BAE Systems, Inc. and General Dynamics Corporation. In the event that the robot market expands, we expect that competition will intensify as additional competitors enter the market and current competitors expand their product lines. Companies competing with us may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality, or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented. Increased competitive pressure could result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products, any of which would harm our business and operating results. The market for robots is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to changing technologies, shifting customer needs and expectations and the likely increased introduction of new products. Our ability to remain competitive will depend to a great extent upon our ongoing performance in the areas of product development and customer support. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering the markets in which we provide products. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue and market share to decline, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is significantly seasonal and, because many of our expenses are based on anticipated levels of annual revenue, our business and operating results will suffer if we do not achieve revenue consistent with our expectations. Our home robots revenue is significantly seasonal. For the fiscal years ended December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, we generated 58.6% and 74.6%, respectively, of our revenue from sales of consumer products in the second half of the year. We expect a majority of such revenue will continue to be generated in the second half of the year for the foreseeable future. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, including forecasts of holiday sales for our consumer products. A significant portion of our operating expenses, such as research and development expenses, certain marketing and promotional expenses and employee wages and salaries, do not vary directly with sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales for a quarter, particularly the final quarter of a fiscal year, are below our expectations, we might not be able to reduce operating expenses for that quarter and, therefore, we would not be able to reduce our operating expenses for the fiscal year. 24 Table of Contents Accordingly, a sales shortfall during a fiscal quarter, and in particular the fourth quarter of a fiscal year, could have a disproportionate effect on our operating results for that quarter or that year. As a result of these factors, we may report operating results that do not meet the expectations of equity research analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. If critical components of our products that we currently purchase from a small number of suppliers become unavailable, we may incur delays in shipment, which could damage our business. We and our outsourced manufacturers obtain hardware components, various subsystems, raw materials and batteries from a limited group of suppliers, some of which are sole suppliers. We do not have any long-term agreements with these suppliers obligating them to continue to sell components or products to us. Our reliance on these suppliers involves significant risks and uncertainties, including whether our suppliers will provide an adequate supply of required components of sufficient quality, will increase prices for the components and will perform their obligations on a timely basis. If we or our outsourced manufacturers are unable to obtain components from third-party suppliers in the quantities and of the quality that we require, on a timely basis and at acceptable prices, we may not be able to deliver our products on a timely or cost-effective basis to our customers, which could cause customers to terminate their contracts with us, reduce our gross margin and seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, if any of our suppliers become financially unstable, we may have to find new suppliers. It may take several months to locate alternative suppliers, if required, or to re-tool our products to accommodate components from different suppliers. We may experience significant delays in manufacturing and shipping our products to customers and incur additional development, manufacturing and other costs to establish alternative sources of supply if we lose any of these sources. We cannot predict if we will be able to obtain replacement components within the time frames that we require at an affordable cost, or at all. In particular, the prices of ABS plastic and nickel (for batteries) have fluctuated greatly and we cannot provide assurance that the prices of these components will not materially impact our results of operations. Our products are complex and could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us, diminish our brand or divert our resources from other purposes. Our robots rely on the interplay among behavior-based artificially intelligent systems, real-world dynamic sensors, user-friendly interfaces and tightly-integrated, electromechanical designs to accomplish their missions. Despite testing, our new or existing products have contained defects and errors and may in the future contain defects, errors or performance problems when first introduced, when new versions or enhancements are released, or even after these products have been used by our customers for a period of time. These problems could result in expensive and time-consuming design modifications or warranty charges, delays in the introduction of new products or enhancements, significant increases in our service and maintenance costs, exposure to liability for damages, damaged customer relationships and harm to our reputation, any of which could materially harm our results of operations and ability to achieve market acceptance. Our quality control procedures relating to the raw materials and components that it receives from third-party suppliers as well as our quality control procedures relating to its products after those products are designed, manufactured and packaged may not be sufficient. In addition, increased development and warranty costs, including the costs of any mandatory or voluntary recall or product upgrades, could be substantial and could reduce our operating margins. Moreover, because military robots are used in dangerous situations, the failure or malfunction of any of these robots, including our own, could significantly damage our reputation and support for robot solutions in general. The existence of any defects, errors, or failures in our products could also lead to product liability claims or lawsuits against us. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost, diminish our brand and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The robot industry is and will likely continue to be characterized by rapid technological change, which will require us to develop new products and product enhancements, and could render our existing products obsolete. Continuing technological changes in the robot industry and in the markets in which we sell our robots could undermine our competitive position or make our robots obsolete, either generally or for particular types of services. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new capabilities and 25 Table of Contents enhancements to our existing product offerings, as well as introduce a variety of new product offerings, to address the changing needs of the markets in which we offer our robots. Delays in introducing new products and enhancements, the failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives or the failure to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices may cause existing and potential customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase our competitors’ products. Moreover, the development of new products has required, and will require, that we expend significant financial and management resources. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant research and development expenses in connection with our efforts to expand our product offerings. If we are unable to devote adequate resources to develop new products or cannot otherwise successfully develop new products or enhancements that meet customer requirements on a timely basis, our products could lose market share, our revenue and profits could decline, or we could experience operating losses. Moreover, if we are unable to offset our product development costs through sales of existing or new products or product enhancements, our operating results and gross margins would be negatively impacted. If we are unable to attract and retain additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to grow our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain additional, highly-qualified personnel. Competition for hiring these employees is intense, especially with regard to engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and integrating robots. Many of the companies with which we compete for hiring experienced employees have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity they are to receive in connection with their employment. Therefore, significant volatility in the price of our stock may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain technical personnel. Furthermore, changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States relating to the expensing of stock options may discourage us from granting the sizes or types of stock options that job candidates may require to accept our offer of employment. If we fail to attract new technical personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current employees, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, which could be costly, time-consuming and limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. If the size of our markets increases, we would be more likely to be subject to claims that our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, the vendors from which we license technology used in our products could become subject to similar infringement claims. Our vendors, or we, may not be able to withstand third-party infringement claims. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time- consuming and expensive, and could divert our management’s attention away from the execution of our business plan. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, that we would be able to develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all, or that we would be able to obtain a license to use a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, our affected product. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our retail and distribution partners for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in such a claim. An adverse determination could also prevent us from offering our products to others. Infringement claims asserted against us or our vendors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we fail to maintain or increase our consumer robot sales through our primary distribution channels, which include third-party retailers, our product sales and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Chain stores and other national retailers are the primary distribution channels for our consumer robots and accounted for approximately 21% and 31% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, respectively. We do not have long-term contracts regarding purchase volumes with any of our 26 Table of Contents retail distributors. As a result, purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis, and the relationships, as well as particular orders, can generally be terminated or otherwise materially changed at any time by our retail distributors. A decision by a major retail distributor, whether motivated by competitive considerations, financial difficulties, economic conditions or otherwise, to decrease its purchases from us, to reduce the shelf space for our products or to change its manner of doing business with us could significantly damage our consumer product sales and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, during recent years, various retailers, including some of our distributors, have experienced significant changes and difficulties, including consolidation of ownership, increased centralization of purchasing decisions, restructurings, bankruptcies and liquidations. These and other financial problems of some of our retailers increase the risk of extending credit to these retailers. A significant adverse change in a retail distributor relationship with us or in a retail distributor’s financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that distributor, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that distributor’s receivables or limit our ability to collect amounts related to previous purchases by that distributor, all of which could harm our business and financial condition. Disruption of the iRobot on-line store could also decrease our home care robot sales. If we fail to enhance our brand, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our operating results may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the iRobot brand is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we expect the importance of global brand recognition to increase as competition develops. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, including our mass media outreach, in-store training and presentations and public relations, and our ability to provide customers with reliable and technically sophisticated robots at competitive prices. If customers do not perceive our products to be of high quality, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, brand promotion efforts may not yield significant revenue or increased revenue sufficient to offset the additional expenses incurred in building our brand. If we incur substantial expenses to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract sufficient customers to realize a return on our brand-building efforts, and our business would suffer. If our existing collaborations are unsuccessful or we fail to establish new collaborations, our ability to develop and commercialize additional products could be significantly harmed. If we cannot maintain our existing collaborations or establish new collaborations, we may not be able to develop additional products. We anticipate that some of our future products will be developed and commercialized in collaboration with companies that have expertise outside the robot field. For example, we are currently collaborating with: The Boeing Company, acting by and through its Integrated Defense Systems Combat Systems business unit, on the development of the PackBot SUGV-Early; Lockheed-Martin on the FCS Command Controller device; ICx Nomadics for joint development of explosive and chemical detection unmanned systems, under the Joint Force protection Advanced Security System. Under these collaborations, we may be dependent on our collaborators to fund some portion of development of the product or to manufacture and market either the primary product that is developed pursuant to the collaboration or complementary products required in order to operate our products. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to establish additional collaborative relationships on acceptable terms. Our existing collaborations and any future collaborations with third parties may not be scientifically or commercially successful. Factors that may affect the success of our collaborations include the following: • our collaborators may not devote the resources necessary or may otherwise be unable to complete development and commercialization of these potential products; • our existing collaborations are and future collaborations may be subject to termination on short notice; • our collaborators may be pursuing alternative technologies or developing alternative products, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that may be competitive with our products, which could affect our collaborators’ commitment to the collaboration with us; 27 Table of Contents • reductions in marketing or sales efforts or a discontinuation of marketing or sales of our products by our collaborators could reduce our revenue; • our collaborators may terminate their collaborations with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or harm our reputation in the business and financial communities; and • our collaborators may pursue higher priority programs or change the focus of their development programs, which would weaken our collaborators’ commitment to us. We depend on the experience and expertise of our senior management team and key technical employees, and the loss of any key employee may impair our ability to operate effectively. Our success depends upon the continued services of our senior management team and key technical employees, such as our project management personnel and senior engineers. Moreover, we often must comply with provisions in government contracts that require employment of persons with specified levels of education and work experience. Each of our executive officers, key technical personnel and other employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The loss of any member of our senior management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could materially harm our business and customer relationships. In addition, because of the highly technical nature of our robots, the loss of any significant number of our existing engineering and project management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are subject to extensive U.S. federal government regulation, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. As a contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to and must comply with various government regulations that impact our operating costs, profit margins and the internal organization and operation of our business. Among the most significant regulations affecting our business are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulations and supplemental agency regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation and administration of, and performance under government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under cost-based government contracts; • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from providing anything of value to a foreign official to help obtain, retain or direct business, or obtain any unfair advantage; • the False Claims Act and the False Statements Act, which, respectively, impose penalties for payments made on the basis of false facts provided to the government, and impose penalties on the basis of false statements, even if they do not result in a payment; and • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Also, we need special clearances to continue working on and advancing certain of our projects with the U.S. federal government. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain the clearances or terminate employment with us, then a customer requiring classified work could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and employ personnel with specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts. For example, if we were to lose our 28 Table of Contents security clearance, we would be unable to continue to participate in the U.S. Army’s Future Combat Systems program. Classified programs generally will require that we comply with various Executive Orders, federal laws and regulations and customer security requirements that may include restrictions on how we develop, store, protect and share information, and may require our employees to obtain government clearances. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals could result in the imposition of penalties, the loss of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government generally, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Significant technology used in our products, however, is not the subject of any patent protection, and we may be unable to obtain patent protection on such technology in the future. Moreover, existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and may be challenged by third parties. In addition, the laws of countries other than the United States in which we market our products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Some of our contracts with the U.S. federal government allow the federal government to disclose technical data regarding the products developed on behalf of the government under the contract without constraining the recipient on how it is used. This ability of the government creates the potential that third parties may be able to use this data to compete with us in the commercial sector. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights may entail significant expense. We believe that certain products in the marketplace may infringe our existing intellectual property rights. We have, from time to time, resorted to legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property and may continue to do so in the future. We may be required to expend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative processes or litigation. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could result in significant expense to us and divert the attention and efforts of our management and technical employees, even if we were to prevail. Acquisitions and potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired Nekton and intend to consider additional acquisitions of companies, technologies and products that we believe could accelerate our ability to compete in our core markets or allow us to enter new markets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; • risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; 29 Table of Contents • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company’s business; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company’s products; and • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents, cash provided by operating activities and funds available through our working capital line of credit, will be sufficient to meet our current and anticipated needs for general corporate purposes. We operate in an emerging market, however, which makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. For example in fiscal 2007 we consumed $27 million of our cash and short term investments. If similar consumptions of cash were to continue, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: • hire additional engineers and other personnel; • develop new, or enhance existing, robots and robot accessories; • enhance our operating infrastructure; • acquire complementary businesses or technologies; or • otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. In addition, our access to credit through our working capital line of credit may be limited by the restrictive financial covenants contained in that agreement, which require us to maintain profitability. Environmental laws and regulations and unforeseen costs could negatively impact our future earnings. The manufacture and sale of our products in certain states and countries may subject us to environmental and other regulations. We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive). Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan. There is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not impair future earnings or results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Business disruptions resulting from international uncertainties could negatively impact our profitability. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a portion of our revenue from international sales in various European markets, Canada, Japan, Korea and Singapore. For the fiscal years ended December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, sales to non-U.S. customers accounted for 23.4% and 13.1% of total revenue, respectively. Our international revenue and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in multiple countries; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems and other relevant legal issues; • fewer legal protections for intellectual property; • foreign and U.S. taxation issues and international trade barriers; • difficulties in obtaining any necessary governmental authorizations for the export of our products to certain foreign jurisdictions; • potential fluctuations in foreign economies; • government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; • domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future; and • different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, our sales, including sales to customers outside the United States, are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and downward fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make our products more expensive than other products, which could harm our business. If we are unable to continue to obtain U.S. federal government authorization regarding the export of our products, or if current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business, we could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries, which would harm our ability to generate revenue. We must comply with U.S. laws regulating the export of our products. In addition, we are required to obtain a license from the U.S. federal government to export our PackBot, Warrior and SUGV lines of tactical military robots. We cannot be sure of our ability to obtain any licenses required to export our products or to receive authorization from the U.S. federal government for international sales or domestic sales to foreign persons. Moreover, the export regimes and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to change. We cannot assure you of the extent that such export authorizations will be available to us, if at all, in the future. In some cases where we act as a subcontractor, we rely upon the compliance activities of our prime contractors, and we cannot assure you that they have taken or will take all measures necessary to comply with applicable export laws. If we or our prime contractor partners cannot obtain required government approvals under applicable regulations in a timely manner or at all, we would be delayed or prevented from selling our products in international jurisdictions, which could materially harm our business, operating results and ability to generate revenue. 31 Table of Contents State and local taxing authorities may determine that we are required to collect and remit sales tax in additional jurisdictions. We collect and remit sales tax in states in which we have a physical presence or in which we believe nexus exists, which obligates us to collect sales tax. Other states may, from time to time, claim that we have state-related activities constituting a sufficient nexus to require such collection. Additionally, many other states seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on companies that sell goods to customers in their state, or directly to the state and its political subdivisions, even without a physical presence. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales tax on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales. Currently, U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives were successful, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in additional states, which could result in substantial tax liabilities and penalties in connection with past sales. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. Additionally, there is no guarantee that we will realize our deferred tax assets. From time to time, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. Although we believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” and FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. At December 27, 2008 we had gross deferred tax assets of $15.3 million and a valuation allowance of $3.5 million resulting in net deferred tax asset of $11.8 million. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of our net deferred tax assets. The realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Our results of operations would be impacted negatively if we determine that increases to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance are required in a future reporting period. Our directors and management will exercise significant control over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 27, 2008, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively beneficially owned approximately 20.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, our shareholder rights agreement or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. We have also adopted a shareholder rights agreement that entitles our stockholders to acquire shares of our common stock at a price equal to 50% of the then-current market value in limited circumstances when a third party acquires or announces its intention to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 