Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business We have generated only minimal revenue from product sales to date; we have a history of net losses and negative cash flow, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. Relative to expenses incurred in our operations, we have generated only minimal revenues from product sales, licensing fees, milestone payments and research reimbursements to date and we may never generate sufficient revenues from future product sales, licensing fees and milestone payments to offset expenses. Even if we ultimately do achieve significant revenues from product sales, licensing fees, research reimbursements and/or milestone payments, we expect to incur significant operating losses over the next few years. We have never been profitable, and we may never become profitable. Through December 31, 2011, we have incurred aggregate net losses of approximately $245.0 million. 14 Table of Contents If our proprietary and partnered product candidates do not receive and maintain regulatory approvals, or if approvals are not obtained in a timely manner, such failure or delay would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues. Approval from the FDA is necessary to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products in the United States and the other countries in which we anticipate doing business have similar requirements. The process for obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is extensive, time-consuming and costly, and there is no guarantee that the FDA or other regulatory bodies will approve any applications that may be filed with respect to any of our proprietary or partnered product candidates, or that the timing of any such approval will be appropriate for the desired product launch schedule for a product candidate. We, and our partners, attempt to provide guidance as to the timing for the filing and acceptance of such regulatory approvals, but such filings and approvals may not occur on the originally anticipated timeline, or at all. Only one of our partnered product candidates is currently in the regulatory approval process and there are no proprietary product candidates currently in the regulatory approval process. We and our partners may not be successful in obtaining such approvals for any potential products in a timely manner, or at all. See “ — Our proprietary and partnered product candidates may not receive regulatory approvals for a variety of reasons, including unsuccessful clinical trials” for additional information relating the approval of product candidates. Additionally, in order to continue to manufacture and market pharmaceutical products, we must maintain our regulatory approvals. If we or any of our partners are unsuccessful in maintaining our regulatory approvals, our ability to generate revenues would be adversely affected. If our contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture significant amounts of the API used in our products and product candidates, our product development and commercialization efforts could be delayed or stopped and our collaborative partnerships could be damaged. We have existing supply agreements with contract manufacturing organizations Avid and Cook to produce bulk API. These manufacturers each produce API under cGMP for clinical uses. In addition, Avid currently produces API for Hylenex recombinant. Avid and Cook will also provide support for the chemistry, manufacturing and controls sections for FDA and other regulatory filings. We rely on their ability to successfully manufacture these batches according to product specifications and Cook has relatively limited experience manufacturing our API. In addition, as a result of our contractual obligations to Roche, we have been required to significantly scale up our commercial API production at Cook during the last two years. If Cook is unable to obtain status as a cGMP-approved manufacturing facility, or if either Avid or Cook: (i) are unable to retain status as cGMP-approved manufacturing facilities; (ii) are unable to otherwise successfully scale up our API production; or (iii) fail to manufacture the API required by our proprietary and partnered products and product candidates for any other reason, our business will be adversely affected. We have not established, and may not be able to establish, favorable arrangements with additional API manufacturers and suppliers of the ingredients necessary to manufacture the API should the existing manufacturers and suppliers become unavailable or in the event that our existing manufacturers and suppliers are unable to adequately perform their responsibilities. We have attempted to mitigate the impact of supply interruption through the establishment of excess API inventory, but there can be no assurances that this safety stock will be maintained or that it will be sufficient to address any delays, interruptions or other problems experienced by Avid and/or Cook. Any delays, interruptions or other problems regarding the ability of Avid and/or Cook to supply API on a timely basis could: (i) cause the delay of clinical trials or otherwise delay or prevent the regulatory approval of proprietary or partnered product candidates; (ii) delay or prevent the effective commercialization of proprietary or partnered products and/or (iii) cause us to breach contractual obligations to deliver API to our partners. Such delays would likely damage our relationship with our partners under our key collaboration agreements and they would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents If any party to a key collaboration agreement, including us, fails to perform material obligations under such agreement, or if a key collaboration agreement, or any other collaboration agreement, is terminated for any reason, our business could significantly suffer. We have entered into multiple collaboration agreements under which we may receive significant future payments in the form of maintenance fees, milestone payments and royalties. In the event that a party fails to perform under a key collaboration agreement, or if a key collaboration agreement is terminated, the reduction in anticipated revenues could delay or suspend our product development activities for some of our product candidates, as well as our commercialization efforts for some or all of our products. In addition, the termination of a key collaboration agreement by one of our partners could materially impact our ability to enter into additional collaboration agreements with new partners on favorable terms, if at all. In certain circumstances, the termination of a key collaboration agreement would require us to revise our corporate strategy going forward and reevaluate the applications and value of our technology. Most of our current proprietary and partnered products and product candidates rely on the rHuPH20 enzyme. rHuPH20 is a key technological component of Enhanze technology, our ultrafast insulin program, our PEGPH20 program, Hylenex recombinant and other proprietary and partnered products and product candidates. An adverse development for rHuPH20 (e.g., an adverse regulatory determination relating to rHuPH20, we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of rHuPH20, we are unable to obtain or maintain material proprietary rights to rHuPH20 or we discover negative characteristics of rHuPH20) would substantially impact multiple areas of our business, including current and potential partnerships, as well as proprietary programs. Our proprietary and partnered product candidates may not receive regulatory approvals for a variety of reasons, including unsuccessful clinical trials. Clinical testing of pharmaceutical products is a long, expensive and uncertain process and the failure or delay of a clinical trial can occur at any stage. Even if initial results of preclinical studies or clinical trial results are promising, we or our partners may obtain different results that fail to show the desired levels of safety and efficacy, or we may not, or our partners may not, obtain applicable regulatory approval for a variety of other reasons. Clinical trials for any of our proprietary or partnered product candidates could be unsuccessful, which would delay or prohibit regulatory approval and commercialization of the product candidates. In the United States and other jurisdictions, regulatory approval can be delayed, limited or not granted for many reasons, including, among others: • clinical results may not meet prescribed endpoints for the studies or otherwise provide sufficient data to support the efficacy of our product candidates; • clinical and nonclinical test results may reveal side effects, adverse events or unexpected safety issues associated with the use of our product candidates; • regulatory review may not find a product candidate safe or effective enough to merit either continued testing or final approval; • regulatory review may not find that the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials justifies approval, or they may require additional studies that would significantly delay or make continued pursuit of approval commercially unattractive; • a regulatory agency may reject our trial data or disagree with our interpretations of either clinical trial data or applicable regulations; • the cost of a clinical trial may be greater than what we originally anticipate, and we may decide to not pursue regulatory approval for such a trial; 16 Table of Contents • a regulatory agency may not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities, or the processes or facilities of our partners, our contract manufacturers or our raw material suppliers; • a regulatory agency may identify problems or other deficiencies in our existing manufacturing processes or facilities, or the existing processes or facilities of our partners, our contract manufacturers or our raw material suppliers; • a regulatory agency may change its formal or informal approval requirements and policies, act contrary to previous guidance, adopt new regulations or raise new issues or concerns late in the approval process; or • a product candidate may be approved only for indications that are narrow or under conditions that place the product at a competitive disadvantage, which may limit the sales and marketing activities for such product candidate or otherwise adversely impact the commercial potential of a product. If a proprietary or partnered product candidate is not approved in a timely fashion on commercially viable terms, or if development of any product candidate is terminated due to difficulties or delays encountered in the regulatory approval process, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and we will become more dependent on the development of other proprietary or partnered product candidates and/or our ability to successfully acquire other products and technologies. There can be no assurances that any proprietary or partnered product candidate will receive regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all. We anticipate that certain proprietary and partnered products will be marketed, and perhaps manufactured, in foreign countries. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals in foreign countries is subject to delay and failure for the reasons set forth above, as well as for reasons that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The approval process varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Foreign regulatory agencies may not provide approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. Our key partners are responsible for providing certain proprietary materials that are essential components of our partnered product candidates, and any failure to supply these materials could delay the development and commercialization efforts for these partnered product candidates and/or damage our collaborative partnerships. Our partners are responsible for providing certain proprietary materials that are essential components of our partnered product candidates. For example, Roche is responsible for producing the Herceptin and MabThera required for its subcutaneous product candidates and Baxter is responsible for producing the GAMMAGARD LIQUID for its product candidate. If a partner, or any applicable third party service provider of a partner, encounters difficulties in the manufacture, storage, delivery, fill, finish or packaging of either components of the partnered product candidate or the partnered product candidate itself, such difficulties could: (i) cause the delay of clinical trials or otherwise delay or prevent the regulatory approval of partnered product candidates; and/or (ii) delay or prevent the effective commercialization of partnered products. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For example, Baxter received a Warning Letter from the FDA in January 2010 regarding Baxter’s GAMMAGARD LIQUID manufacturing facility in Lessines, Belgium. The FDA indicated in March 2010 that the issues raised in the Warning Letter had been addressed by Baxter and we do not expect these issues to impact the development of the GAMMAGARD LIQUID product candidate. If we have problems with third parties that either distribute API on our behalf or prepare, fill, finish and package our products and product candidates for distribution, our commercialization and development efforts for our products and product candidates could be delayed or stopped. We rely on third parties to store and ship API on our behalf and to also prepare, fill, finish and package our products and product candidates prior to their distribution. If we are unable to locate third parties to perform 17 Table of Contents these functions on terms that are acceptable to us, or if the third parties we identify fail to perform their obligations, the progress of clinical trials could be delayed or even suspended and the commercialization of approved product candidates could be delayed or prevented. For example, Hylenex recombinant was voluntarily recalled in May 2010 because a portion of the Hylenex recombinant manufactured by Baxter was not in compliance with the requirements of the underlying Hylenex recombinant agreements. During the second quarter of 2011, we submitted the data that the FDA had requested to support the reintroduction of Hylenex recombinant. The FDA approved the submitted data and granted the reintroduction of Hylenex recombinant and we reintroduced Hylenex recombinant to the market in December 2011. In June 2011, we entered into a commercial manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxter, under which Baxter will fill, finish and package Hylenex recombinant product for us. Under our commercial manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxter, Baxter has agreed to fill and finish Hylenex recombinant product for us for a limited period of time. The initial term of the commercial manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxter expires on December 31, 2012 and is renewable for one additional year upon mutual agreement. In June 2011, we entered into a services agreement with a third party manufacturer for the technology transfer and manufacture of Hylenex recombinant. While we expect to enter into a commercial manufacturing and supply agreement with a new manufacturer of Hylenex recombinant, if we are unable to find a suitable manufacturer of Hylenex recombinant prior to the expiration of the commercial manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxter or if a new manufacturer encounters difficulties in the manufacture, fill, finish or packaging of Hylenex recombinant, our business and financial condition could be adversely effected. We may wish to raise additional capital in the next twelve months and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such funds. During the next twelve months, we may wish to raise additional capital to continue the development of our product candidates or for other current corporate purposes. Our current cash position and expected revenues during the next few years may not constitute the amount of capital necessary for us to continue the development of our proprietary product candidates and to fund general operations. In addition, if we engage in acquisitions of companies, products or technology in order to execute our business strategy, we may need to raise additional capital. We will need to raise additional capital in the future through one or more financing vehicles that may be available to us. Potential financing vehicles include: (i) the public or private issuance of securities; (ii) new collaborative agreements; and/or (iii) expansions or revisions to existing collaborative relationships. Considering our stage of development, the nature of our capital structure and general market conditions, if we are required to raise additional capital in the future, the additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If additional capital is not available on favorable terms when needed, we will be required to significantly reduce operating expenses through the restructuring of our operations. If we are successful in raising additional capital, a substantial number of additional shares may be issued and these shares will dilute the ownership interest of our current investors. If we are unable to sufficiently develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into successful agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will not be able to fully commercialize our products. We may not be successful in marketing and promoting our existing product, Hylenex recombinant, product candidates or any other products we develop or acquire in the future. Our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are very limited. In order to commercialize any products successfully, we must internally develop substantial sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or establish collaborations or other arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We do not have extensive experience in these areas, and we may not be able to establish adequate in-house sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or engage and effectively manage relationships with third parties to perform any or all of such services. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, whose 18 Table of Contents efforts may not meet our expectations or be successful. These third parties would be largely responsible for the speed and scope of sales and marketing efforts, and may not dedicate the resources necessary to maximize product opportunities. Our ability to cause these third parties to increase the speed and scope of their efforts may also be limited. In addition, sales and marketing efforts could be negatively impacted by the delay or failure to obtain additional supportive clinical trial data for our products. In some cases, third party partners are responsible for conducting these additional clinical trials and our ability to increase the efforts and resources allocated to these trials may be limited. For example, in January 2011 we and Baxter mutually agreed to terminate the Hylenex Partnership and the associated agreements. If we or our partners fail to comply with regulatory requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us or them, which could significantly harm our business. Any approved products, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for these products, are subject to continual requirements and review by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Regulatory authorities subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. We, and our partners, will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, including required submissions of safety and other post-market information and reports, registration requirements, cGMP regulations, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping requirements. The cGMP regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. We rely on the compliance by our contract manufacturers with cGMP regulations and other regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture of our products. We and our partners are also subject to state laws and registration requirements covering the distribution of our products. Regulatory agencies may change existing requirements or adopt new requirements or policies. We or our partners may be slow to adapt or may not be able to adapt to these changes or new requirements. Regulatory requirements applicable to pharmaceutical products make the substitution of suppliers and manufacturers costly and time consuming. We have minimal internal manufacturing capabilities and are, and expect to be in the future, entirely dependent on contract manufacturers and suppliers for the manufacture of our products and for their active and other ingredients. The disqualification of these manufacturers and suppliers through their failure to comply with regulatory requirements could negatively impact our business because the delays and costs in obtaining and qualifying alternate suppliers (if such alternative suppliers are available, which we cannot assure) could delay clinical trials or otherwise inhibit our ability to bring approved products to market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our proprietary or partnered products, manufacturing processes or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in any of the following: • restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recall; • fines; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • suspension or termination of any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • product seizure; or 19 Table of Contents • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If proprietary or partnered product candidates are approved by regulatory bodies such as the FDA but do not gain market acceptance, our business may suffer and we may not be able to fund future operations. Assuming that our proprietary or partnered product candidates obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, a number of factors may affect the market acceptance of these existing product candidates or any other products which are developed or acquired in the future, including, among others: • the price of products relative to other therapies for the same or similar treatments; • the perception by patients, physicians and other members of the health care community of the effectiveness and safety of these products for their prescribed treatments; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts and the ability and willingness of our partners to fund sales and marketing efforts; • the degree to which the use of these products is restricted by the approved product label; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and the effectiveness of the sales and marketing efforts of our partners; • the introduction of generic competitors; and • the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from third party payors. If these products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development or acquisition of new product candidates and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our approved products, which would cause our business to suffer. In addition, our proprietary and partnered product candidates will be restricted to the labels approved by applicable regulatory bodies such as the FDA, and these restrictions may limit the marketing and promotion of the ultimate products. If the approved labels are restrictive, the sales and marketing efforts for these products may be negatively affected. Developing and marketing pharmaceutical products for human use involves product liability risks, for which we currently have limited insurance coverage. The testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products involves the risk of product liability claims by consumers and other third parties. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, product liability claims can be high in the pharmaceutical industry and our insurance may not sufficiently cover our actual liabilities. If product liability claims were to be made against us, it is possible that our insurance carriers may deny, or attempt to deny, coverage in certain instances. If a lawsuit against us is successful, then the lack or insufficiency of insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Furthermore, various distributors of pharmaceutical products require minimum product liability insurance coverage before purchase or acceptance of products for distribution. Failure to satisfy these insurance requirements could impede our ability to achieve broad distribution of our proposed products and the imposition of higher insurance requirements could impose additional costs on us. In addition, since many of our partnered product candidates include the pharmaceutical products of a third party, we run the risk that problems with the third party pharmaceutical product will give rise to liability claims against us. Our inability to attract, hire and retain key management and scientific personnel could negatively affect our business. Our success depends on the performance of key management and scientific employees with biotechnology experience. Given our relatively small staff size relative to the number of programs currently under development, 20 Table of Contents we depend substantially on our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain high quality personnel, especially our scientists and management team. If we are unable to retain existing personnel or identify or hire additional personnel, we may not be able to research, develop, commercialize or market our products and product candidates as expected or on a timely basis and we may not be able to adequately support current and future alliances with strategic partners. Furthermore, if we were to lose key management personnel, such as Gregory Frost, Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, we would likely lose some portion of our institutional knowledge and technical know-how, potentially causing a substantial delay in one or more of our development programs until adequate replacement personnel could be hired and trained. For example, Dr. Frost has been with us from soon after our inception, and he possesses a substantial amount of knowledge about our development efforts. If we were to lose his services, we would experience delays in meeting our product development schedules. In 2008, we adopted a severance policy applicable to all employees and a change in control policy applicable to senior executives. We have not adopted any other policies or entered into any other agreements specifically designed to motivate officers or other employees to remain with us. We do not have key man life insurance policies on the lives of any of our employees, including Dr. Frost. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our operations, including laboratories, offices and other research facilities, are located in a three building campus in San Diego, California. We depend on our facilities and on our partners, contractors and vendors for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, interruptions in the supply of natural resources, political and governmental changes, wildfires and other fires, floods, explosions, actions of animal rights activists, earthquakes and civil unrest could disrupt our operations or those of our partners, contractors and vendors. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, and our contractors may carry liability insurance that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors’ insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results. Moreover, any such event could delay our research and development programs. If we or our partners do not achieve projected development goals in the timeframes we publicly announce or otherwise expect, the commercialization of our products and the development of our product candidates may be delayed and, as a result, our stock price may decline. We publicly articulate the estimated timing for the accomplishment of certain scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals. The accomplishment of any goal is typically based on numerous assumptions and the achievement of a particular goal may be delayed for any number of reasons both within and outside of our control. If scientific, regulatory, strategic or other factors cause us to not meet a goal, regardless of whether that goal has been publicly articulated or not, the commercialization of our products and the development of our proprietary and partnered product candidates may be delayed. In addition, the consistent failure to meet publicly announced milestones may erode the credibility of our management team with respect to future milestone estimates. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. In order to augment our product pipeline or otherwise strengthen our business, we may decide to acquire additional businesses, products and technologies. As we have limited experience in evaluating and completing acquisitions, our ability as an organization to make such acquisitions is unproven. Acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: 21 Table of Contents • we may have to issue convertible debt or equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; • an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it may require us to amortize or write down amounts related to goodwill and other intangible assets, or incur or assume substantial debt or liabilities, or it may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, products, technologies, personnel or operations of companies that we acquire; • certain acquisitions may impact our relationship with existing or potential partners who are competitive with the acquired business, products or technologies; • acquisitions may require significant capital infusions and the acquired businesses, products or technologies may not generate sufficient value to justify acquisition costs; • an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; • acquisitions may involve the entry into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience; and • key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. If any of these risks occurred, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do pursue any acquisitions, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions or that the market will not view such acquisitions positively. Risks Related To Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price is subject to significant volatility. We participate in a highly dynamic industry which often results in significant volatility in the market price of common stock irrespective of company performance. As a result, our high and low sales prices of our common stock during the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 were $9.82 and $5.54, respectively. We expect our stock price to continue to be subject to significant volatility and, in addition to the other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K and all other risks and uncertainties that are either not known to us at this time or which we deem to be immaterial, any of the following factors may lead to a significant drop in our stock price: • a dispute regarding our failure, or the failure of one of our third party partners, to comply with the terms of a collaboration agreement; • the termination, for any reason, of any of our collaboration agreements; • the sale of common stock by any significant stockholder, including, but not limited to, direct or indirect sales by members of management or our Board of Directors; • the resignation, or other departure, of members of management or our Board of Directors; • general negative conditions in the healthcare industry; • general negative conditions in the financial markets; • the failure, for any reason, to obtain regulatory approval for any of our proprietary or partnered product candidates; • the failure, for any reason, to secure or defend our intellectual property position; 22 Table of Contents • for those products that are waiting to be approved by the FDA, the failure of the FDA to approve such products in a timely manner consistent with the FDA’s historical approval process; • the suspension of any clinical trial due to safety or patient tolerability issues; • the suspension of any clinical trial due to market and/or competitive conditions; • our failure, or the failure of our third party partners, to successfully commercialize products approved by applicable regulatory bodies such as the FDA; • our failure, or the failure of our third party partners, to generate product revenues anticipated by investors; • problems with an API contract manufacturer or a fill and finish manufacturer for any product or product candidate; • the sale of additional debt and/or equity securities by us; • our failure to obtain financing on acceptable terms; or • a restructuring of our operations. Future sales of shares of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. We are currently a “Well-Known Seasoned Issuer” and may file automatic shelf registration statements at any time with the SEC. In addition, we currently have the ability to offer and sell additional equity, debt securities and warrants to purchase such securities, either individually or in units, under an effective automatic shelf registration statement. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under our shelf registration statements could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. In the future, we may issue additional options, warrants or other derivative securities convertible into our common stock. Trading in our stock has historically been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want to at prevailing market prices. Our stock has historically traded at a low daily trading volume. If low trading volume continues, it may be difficult for stockholders to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Risks Related To Our Industry Compliance with the extensive government regulations to which we are subject is expensive and time consuming and may result in the delay or cancellation of product sales, introductions or modifications. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business. All pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by the federal government, principally the FDA and, to a lesser extent, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and foreign and state government agencies. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other domestic and foreign statutes and regulations govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storing, recordkeeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Under certain of these regulations, we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection of our or their respective facilities, procedures and operations and/or the testing of products by the FDA, the DEA and other authorities, which conduct periodic inspections to confirm that we and our contract suppliers and manufacturers are in compliance with all applicable regulations. The FDA also conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections to determine whether our systems, or our contract suppliers’ and manufacturers’ processes, are in compliance with cGMP and other FDA regulations. If we, or our contract supplier, fail these inspections, we may not be able to commercialize our product in a timely manner without incurring significant additional costs, or at all. In addition, the FDA imposes a number of complex regulatory requirements on entities that advertise and promote pharmaceuticals including, but not limited to, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer 23 Table of Contents advertising, off-label promotion, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the internet. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and shipping our products. Consequently, there is always a risk that the FDA or other applicable governmental authorities will not approve our products, or will take post-approval action limiting or revoking our ability to sell our products, or that the rate, timing and cost of such approvals will adversely affect our product introduction plans or results of operations. We may be required to initiate or defend against legal proceedings related to intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense, delay and/or cessation of the development and commercialization of our products. We primarily rely on patents to protect our intellectual property rights. The strength of this protection, however, is uncertain. For example, it is not certain that: • our patents and pending patent applications cover products and/or technology that we invented first; • we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate our technologies; • any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; and • any of our issued patents, or patent pending applications that result in issued patents, will be held valid and infringed in the event the patents are asserted against others. We currently own or license several patents and also have pending patent applications applicable to rHuPH20 and other proprietary materials. There can be no assurance that our existing patents, or any patents issued to us as a result of our pending patent applications, will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will not face third party challenges or be the subject of further proceedings limiting their scope or enforceability. A European patent, EP1603541, claiming rHuPH20 was granted to us on November 11, 2009 with claims to the human PH20 glycoprotein, PEGylated variants, a method of producing the glycoprotein produced by recombinant methods, and pharmaceutical compositions with other agents, including antibodies, insulins, cytokines, a chemotherapeutic agent and additional therapeutic classes. A third party opposed this patent in the European Patent Office in 2010, but withdrew the opposition in March 2012. We are currently attempting to resolve the opposition with the European Patent Office, and although we expect to obtain European patent protection that would be no less broad than claims previously issued in a counterpart United States patent (U.S. Patent No. 7,767,429), there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Any limitations in our patent portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, if any of our pending patent applications do not result in issued patents, or result in issued patents with narrow or limited claims, this could result in us having no or limited protection against generic or biosimilar competition against our product candidates which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may become involved in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or other proceedings in other jurisdictions, to determine the priority, validity or enforceability of our patents. In addition, costly litigation could be necessary to protect our patent position. We also rely on trademarks to protect the names of our products. These trademarks may not be acceptable to regulatory agencies. In addition, these trademarks may be challenged by others. If we enforce our trademarks against third parties, such enforcement proceedings may be expensive. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect with confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others with whom we discuss our business. Disputes may arise 24 Table of Contents concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability or enforceability of these agreements, and we might not be able to resolve these disputes in our favor. In addition to protecting our own intellectual property rights, third parties may assert patent, trademark or copyright infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on what they believe are their own intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any intellectual property litigation, we may be required to pay substantial damages, including but not limited to treble damages, for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, we may be stopped from developing, manufacturing or selling our products until we obtain a license from the owner of the relevant technology or other intellectual property rights. If such a license is available at all, it may require us to pay substantial royalties or other fees. Patent protection for protein-based therapeutic products and other biotechnology inventions is subject to a great deal of uncertainty, and if patent laws or the interpretation of patent laws change, our competitors may be able to develop and commercialize products based on our discoveries. Patent protection for protein-based therapeutic products is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. In recent years, there have been significant changes in patent law, including the legal standards that govern the scope of protein and biotechnology patents. Standards for patentability of full-length and partial genes, and their corresponding proteins, are changing. Recent court decisions have made it more difficult to obtain patents, by making it more difficult to satisfy the requirement of non-obviousness, have decreased the availability of injunctions against infringers, and have increased the likelihood of challenging the validity of a patent through a declaratory judgment action. Taken together, these decisions could make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain, license and enforce our patents. In addition, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (HR 1249) was signed into law in September 2011, which among other changes to the U.S. patent laws, changes patent priority from "first to invent" to "first to file," implements a post-grant opposition system for patents and provides for a prior user defense to infringement. These judicial and legislative changes have introduced significant uncertainty in the patent law landscape and may potentially negatively impact our ability to procure, maintain and enforce patents to provide exclusivity for our products. There also have been, and continue to be, policy discussions concerning the scope of patent protection awarded to biotechnology inventions. Social and political opposition to biotechnology patents may lead to narrower patent protection within the biotechnology industry. Social and political opposition to patents on genes and proteins may lead to narrower patent protection, or narrower claim interpretation, for genes, their corresponding proteins and inventions related to their use, formulation and manufacture. Patent protection relating to biotechnology products is also subject to a great deal of uncertainty outside the United States, and patent laws are evolving and undergoing revision in many countries. Changes in, or different interpretations of, patent laws worldwide may result in our inability to obtain or enforce patents, and may allow others to use our discoveries to develop and commercialize competitive products, which would impair our business. If third party reimbursement and customer contracts are not available, our products may not be accepted in the market. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for our products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other healthcare providers. Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to limit both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products to contain costs. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Third party payors may not establish adequate levels of reimbursement for 25 Table of Contents the products that we commercialize, which could limit their market acceptance and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Customer contracts, such as with group purchasing organizations and hospital formularies, will often not offer contract or formulary status without either the lowest price or substantial proven clinical differentiation. If our products are compared to animal-derived hyaluronidases by these entities, it is possible that neither of these conditions will be met, which could limit market acceptance and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The rising cost of healthcare and related pharmaceutical product pricing has led to cost containment pressures that could cause us to sell our products at lower prices, resulting in less revenue to us. Any of the proprietary or partnered products that have been, or in the future are, approved by the FDA may be purchased or reimbursed by state and federal government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations and managed care organizations. Such third party payors increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of such organizations, and various legislative proposals and enactments to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Modernization Act of 2003, could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products are prescribed and purchased, resulting in lower prices and/or a reduction in demand. Such cost containment measures and healthcare reforms could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. In March 2010, the United States adopted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the Healthcare Reform Act. This law substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, fraud and abuse and enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. Additional provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act, some of which became effective in 2011, may negatively affect our revenues in the future. For example, the Healthcare Reform Act imposes a non-deductible excise tax on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers that sell branded prescription drugs to U.S. government programs that we believe will impact our revenues from our products. In addition, as part of the Healthcare Reform Act’s provisions closing a funding gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, we will also be required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries under this prescription drug program. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase our product sales or successfully commercialize our product candidates or could limit or eliminate our future spending on development projects. Furthermore, individual states have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Legally mandated price controls on payment amounts by third party payors or other restrictions could negatively and materially impact our revenues and financial condition. We anticipate that we will encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries outside the United States. 26 Table of Contents We face intense competition and rapid technological change that could result in the development of products by others that are superior to our proprietary and partnered products under development. Our proprietary and partnered products have numerous competitors in the United States and abroad including, among others, major pharmaceutical and specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions that have developed competing products. The competitors for Hylenex recombinant will include, but are not limited to ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Inc. For our Analog-PH20 product candidates, such competitors may include Biodel Inc., Eli Lily, Sanofi Aventis, Novo Nordisk Inc. and Mannkind Corporation. These competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective, safer, or less costly than our current or future proprietary and partnered product candidates or that could render our technologies and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of these competitors have substantially more resources and product development, manufacturing and marketing experience and capabilities than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical product candidates and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and therapies for use in healthcare. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 