Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading “Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements” before deciding whether to invest in our securities. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS A small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material negative impact upon our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our revenues were $827.3 million and our operating expenses were $941.8 million (including our SLS termination expense of approximately $129.9 million related to 17 management agreements). A small percentage decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses could have a material negative impact upon our operating results. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our termination of management agreements for the 30 communities that SLS previously managed for us. Between November 2005 and December 2006, we terminated management agreements for the 30 communities that SLS managed for us. The financial benefits we expect to realize from the termination of these management agreements are largely dependent upon our ability to maintain or increase the occupancy of these communities and to lower certain operating costs. Changing management at senior living communities sometimes results in decreased occupancy, declining revenues and increased costs. The transition of operations at senior living 11 communities is often complicated and we can provide no assurance that the benefits we hope to achieve by terminating these SLS management agreements will be realized. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our lease of the two rehabilitation hospitals. The historical operating and financial information we have concerning the two rehabilitation hospitals’ operations that we received from their prior operator, HealthSouth Corporation, or HealthSouth, may not be accurate. Also, recent changes in Medicare rate formulas applicable to rehabilitation hospitals make it difficult to project these hospitals’ future financial results. In these circumstances, any projection or implication that our future operation of these hospitals will be profitable may prove to be inaccurate. In addition, the two rehabilitation hospitals may be subject to retroactive rate adjustments. In fact, we may be unable to operate these hospitals profitably and we may experience losses from our operation of these hospitals. If we are unable to operate these hospitals successfully, our reputation as a provider of health and rehabilitation services may be damaged. Even if we successfully operate these hospitals, these operations may have little or no benefit to our other operations. The rehabilitation hospitals may be subject to Medicare reclassification, resulting in lower Medicare rates. A significant amount of the revenues at our rehabilitation hospitals is paid by Medicare and we became more dependent upon the Medicare program when we began to operate these hospitals than we were before we assumed these operations. Under the “75% Rule,” in order to qualify under Medicare as an IRF, at least 75% of a facility’s total inpatient population must require intensive rehabilitation services associated with treatment of at least one of 13 designated medical conditions. The rule is being phased in over four years. For cost reporting periods starting on and after July 1, 2006, the requirement is 60%; for cost reporting periods starting on and after July 1, 2007 and July 1, 2008, the requirement will be 65% and 75%, respectively. We believe that 60% of the patients at the rehabilitation hospitals we began to operate on October 1, 2006 meet these requirements. If these rehabilitation hospitals are unable to meet the requirements of the 75% Rule, they will be subject to Medicare reclassification as a different type of provider and receive lower Medicare reimbursement rates. The failure of Medicare and Medicaid rates to match our costs will reduce our income. Some of our current operations, especially our nursing homes and rehabilitation hospitals, receive significant revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 33% of our net revenues from residents and 72% of our hospital revenues were received from these programs. The federal government and some states are now experiencing or have recently experienced fiscal deficits. Historically, when governmental deficits have increased, cut backs in Medicare and Medicaid funding have often followed. These cut backs sometimes include rate reductions, but more often result in a failure of Medicare and Medicaid rates to increase by sufficient amounts to offset increasing costs. For example, since the beginning of 2006, there have been cut backs to Medicare funding which have affected profitability of our current and continuing nursing home operations. We cannot now predict whether future Medicare and Medicaid rates will be sufficient to cover our future cost increases. Future Medicare and Medicaid rate declines or a failure of these rates to cover increasing costs could result in our experiencing lower earnings or losses. The rehabilitation hospitals we began to operate on October 1, 2006 receive a significant part of their revenues from the Medicare program, and these operations will increase our exposure to Medicare rate risks. Our growth strategy may not succeed. Since our spin off from Senior Housing on December 31, 2001, we have grown rapidly through acquisitions. Our business plan includes acquiring additional senior living communities, pharmacies and, possibly, additional rehabilitation hospitals. Our growth strategy involves risks, including the following: · we may be unable to locate senior living communities, pharmacies or rehabilitation hospitals available for purchase at acceptable prices; · we may be unable to access capital to make acquisitions or operate acquired businesses; 12 · acquired operations may not perform in accord with our expectations; · we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to improve acquired facilities, including capital expenditures that may not have been anticipated by us at the time of the acquisition; · we may have difficulty retaining key employees and other personnel at acquired facilities; · acquired operations may subject us to unanticipated contingent liabilities or regulatory problems; · to the extent we incur acquisition debt or leases, our operating leverage may increase and, to the extent we issue additional equity, our shareholders’ percentage of ownership will be diluted; and · combining our present operations with newly acquired operations may disrupt operations or cost more than anticipated. For these reasons and others: · our business plan to grow may not succeed; · the benefits which we hope to achieve by growing may not be achieved; · we may suffer declines in profitability or suffer recurring losses; and · our existing operations may suffer from a lack of management attention or financial resources if such attention and resources are devoted to a failed growth strategy. When we acquire new communities, we sometimes see a decline in community occupancy and it may take a period of time for us to stabilize acquired community operations. Our efforts to restore occupancy or stabilize acquired communities’ operations may not be successful. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience a decline in occupancy at the rehabilitation hospitals we recently began to operate. We have recently expanded into the institutional and mail order pharmacy businesses. Rehabilitation hospitals and pharmacies are businesses with which we have limited experience, and our initiatives in these areas may not be successful. The nature of our business exposes us to litigation risks. As a result, our insurance costs have increased and may continue to increase, and we self insure a large portion of our litigation risks. The nature of our business exposes us to litigation, and we are subject to lawsuits in the ordinary course of our business. In several well publicized instances, private litigation by residents of senior living communities for alleged abuses has resulted in large damage awards against other operating companies. Today, some lawyers and law firms specialize in bringing litigation against senior living companies. As a result of this litigation and potential litigation, our cost of liability insurance has increased dramatically during the past few years. Medical liability insurance reform has become a topic of political debate and some states have enacted legislation to limit future liability awards. However, if such reforms are not generally adopted, we expect our insurance costs may continue to increase. To reduce costs, we self insure a significant amount of our litigation liability risks. Although our reserves for liability self insurance have been determined with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may prove inadequate. Increasing liability insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves may materially negatively affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which increases our costs and may result in losses. Licensing and Medicare and Medicaid laws require operators of senior living communities and rehabilitation hospitals to comply with extensive standards governing operations. There are also various laws prohibiting fraud by senior living and rehabilitation hospital operators, including criminal laws that prohibit false claims for Medicare and Medicaid coverage and that regulate patient referrals. In recent years, the federal and state governments have devoted increased resources to monitoring the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti-fraud investigations. When quality of care deficiencies are identified or improper billing is uncovered, various sanctions may be imposed, including 13 denial of new admissions, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid program participation, monetary penalties, governmental oversight or loss of licensure. Our communities incur sanctions and penalties from time to time. As a result of this extensive regulatory system and increasing enforcement initiatives, we have experienced increased costs for monitoring quality of care compliance and billing procedures, and we expect these costs may continue to increase. Also, if we become subject to regulatory sanctions, our business may be adversely affected and we might experience financial losses. A significant increase in our labor costs may have a material adverse effect on us. Wages and employee benefits represent approximately 47% of our 2006 total operating costs, exclusive of the termination fees we paid to SLS. We compete with other operators of senior living communities and rehabilitation hospitals with respect to attracting and retaining qualified personnel responsible for the day to day operations of each of our communities. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel may require us to increase the wages and benefits offered to our employees in order to attract and retain these personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. Also, we have to compete for lesser skilled workers with numerous other employers. Further, when we acquire new facilities, we may be required to pay increased compensation or offer other incentives to retain key personnel and other employees. Employment statistics published by the government indicate a tightening job market. Historically, these statistics have often foretold increased wage pressures and we may experience such wage pressures in the near future. For example, recent wage increases in Connecticut made our previous operations in that state unprofitable. Employee benefits costs, including employee health insurance and workers compensation insurance costs, have materially increased in recent years. To help control these costs, we partially self insure our workers compensation insurance and fully self insure our employee health insurance. Although our self insurance reserves have been determined with guidance from third party professionals, our reserves may be inadequate. Increasing employee health and workers compensation insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves for this type of insurance may materially negatively affect our earnings. No assurance can be given that our labor costs will not increase or that any increase will be matched by corresponding increases in rates charged to residents. Any significant failure by us to control our labor costs or to pass on any increased labor costs to residents through rate increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires us to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve our facilities. Physical characteristics of senior living communities and rehabilitation hospitals are mandated by various governmental authorities. Changes in these regulations may require us to make significant expenditures. Our communities sometimes require significant expenditures to address ongoing required maintenance and to make them attractive to residents. In addition, we often are required to make significant capital expenditures when we acquire new facilities. Our available financial resources may be insufficient to fund these expenditures. In addition to capital expenditures we are making at some of our senior living communities, we expect that we will need to make certain capital expenditures at the rehabilitation hospitals we recently began to operate, which could be significant. Senior Housing has historically provided most of the capital we need to improve the properties we lease from it. However, whenever Senior Housing provides such capital, our rent increases and we may be unable to pay the increased rent without experiencing losses. Our business is highly competitive and we may be unable to operate profitably. We compete with numerous other companies that provide senior living and rehabilitation hospital services, including home healthcare companies and other real estate based service providers. Historically, nursing homes and rehabilitation hospitals have been somewhat protected from competition by state laws requiring certificates of need to develop new communities; however, these barriers have been eliminated in many states. Also, there are few barriers to competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. Growth in the availability of nursing home alternatives, including assisted living communities, has had and may in the future have the effect of reducing the occupancy or profitability at nursing homes, including those we operate. Many of our existing competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than us. Accordingly, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to attract a sufficient number of residents to our communities or that we will be able to attract employees and keep wages and other employee benefits, insurance costs and other operating expenses at levels which will allow us to compete successfully or to operate profitably. 14 We are subject to possible conflicts of interest; we have engaged in, and expect to continue to engage in, transactions with related parties. Our business is subject to possible conflicts of interest as follows: · our Chief Executive Officer, Evrett W. Benton, and our Chief Financial Officer, Bruce J. Mackey Jr., are also part-time employees of Reit Management & Research LLC, or RMR. RMR is the manager for Senior Housing and we purchase various services from RMR pursuant to a shared services agreement; · our managing directors, Barry M. Portnoy and Gerard M. Martin, are managing trustees of Senior Housing. Mr. Portnoy also is the majority beneficial owner and the chairman of RMR; a subsidiary of RMR leases office space to us; and Messrs Portnoy and Martin are directors of RMR; · under our shared services agreement with RMR, in the event of a conflict between Senior Housing and us, RMR may act on behalf of Senior Housing rather than on our behalf; and · as of December 31, 2006, we leased from Senior Housing 144 of the 162 senior living communities that we operated for total annual minimum rent of approximately 114.1 million. In addition, we also lease our two rehabilitation hospitals from Senior Housing for total annual minimum rent of approximately $10.3 million. On December 31, 2001, Senior Housing distributed substantially all of its ownership of our shares to its shareholders. Simultaneously with the spin off, we entered into agreements with Senior Housing which, among other things, limit ownership of more than 9.8% of our voting shares, restrict our ability to take any action that could jeopardize the tax status of Senior Housing as a real estate investment trust and limit our ability to acquire real estate of types which are owned by Senior Housing or other real estate investment trusts managed by RMR. As a result of these agreements, our leases with Senior Housing and our shared services agreement with RMR, Senior Housing, RMR and their respective affiliates have significant roles in our business and we do not anticipate any changes to those roles in the future. Future business dealings between us, Senior Housing, RMR and their respective affiliates may be on terms less favorable to us than we could achieve on an arm’s length basis. Although we do not believe these conflicts have adversely affected, or will adversely affect, our business, not everyone may agree with our position. The limitations on the ownership of our shares and other anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and in our material agreements may prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. Our charter places restrictions on the ability of any person or group to acquire beneficial ownership of more than 9.8% (in number of shares or value, whichever is more restrictive) of any class of our equity securities. The terms of our leases with Senior Housing and our shared services agreement with RMR provide that our rights under these agreements may be cancelled by Senior Housing and RMR, respectively, upon the acquisition by any person or group of more than 9.8% of our voting stock, and upon other change in control events, as defined in those documents. If the breach of these ownership limitations causes a lease default, shareholders causing the default may become liable to us or to other shareholders for damages. Additionally, on March 10, 2004, we entered into a rights agreement whereby in the event a person or group of persons acquires or attempts to acquire 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. These agreements and other provisions in our charter and bylaws may increase the difficulty of acquiring control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchases, a proxy fight or otherwise, if the acquisition is not approved by our board of directors. Other provisions in our governing documents which may deter takeover proposals include the following: · staggered terms for members of our board of directors; · the power of our board of directors, without a shareholders’ vote, to authorize and issue additional shares and create classes of shares on terms that it determines; · a 75% shareholder vote and cause requirements for removal of directors; and 15 · advance notice procedures with respect to nominations of directors and shareholder proposals. For all of these reasons, shareholders may be unable to cause a change of control of us or to realize a change of control premium for their shares. Circumstances that adversely affect the ability of seniors to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on us. Approximately 67% of our net revenues from residents from our senior living communities for the year ended December 31, 2006 were paid by residents from their private resources. We expect to continue to rely on the ability of our residents to pay for our services from their own financial resources. Inflation or other circumstances that adversely affect the ability of the elderly to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The price of our common shares has fluctuated, and a number of factors may cause our common share price to decline. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated and could fluctuate significantly in the future in response to various factors and events, including, but not limited to, the risks set out in this Annual Report on form 10-K, as well as: · the liquidity of the market for our common shares; · variations in our operating results; · variations from analysts’ expectations; and · general economic and industry trends and conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Our shareholders may be unable to resell their common shares at or above price at which they purchased our shares. RISKS RELATED TO OUR NOTES The notes we issued in October 2006, and any notes we may issue in the future will be, effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our parent company notes will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our parent company notes are effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under the notes issued in October 2006 and those subsidiaries and additional subsidiaries guarantee our obligations under our revolving credit facility. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, our subsidiaries had approximately $44.8 million of secured indebtedness outstanding, all of which are obligations of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the notes issued in October 2006, and may add additional secured indebtedness under our secured revolving credit facility available for borrowing by us that would effectively rank senior to the outstanding notes, and any new notes we may issue. The outstanding notes, and any new notes we may issue will be, effectively subordinated to our secured debt. In addition, non-guarantor subsidiaries have substantial additional obligations, including trade payables and lease obligations, to which our notes are and will be effectively subordinated. Our right to receive assets of any of our subsidiaries upon its liquidation or reorganization will be structurally subordinated to the claims of our subsidiaries, creditors, except to the extent that we are recognized as a creditor of such 16 subsidiary, in which case our claims would still be subordinated to any security interests in the assets of such subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries that is senior to that held by us. In the event of our insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up, we and the subsidiaries that guarantee our outstanding notes, or any new notes we may issue, may not have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on any or all the notes. We may be required to prepay our debts at the option of note holders or upon a change of control. In certain change of control circumstances or if our common shares are no longer traded on a national securities exchange or on an established over the counter market in the United States, holders of our outstanding notes may have the right to require us to purchase their notes at their principal amount plus accrued interest. Holders of our notes also have the right to require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their notes on each of October 15, 2013, October 15, 2016 and October 15, 2021; however, we may not have sufficient financial resources at those times to pay the repurchase price and our then existing indebtedness could restrict or prohibit the repurchase. Any notes we may issue in the future may have similar or even more onerous terms. If we redeem the notes before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. We may redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding the redemption date. If a redemption occurs, holders of these notes may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the redeemed notes. Notes we may issue in the future may also permit redemption before maturity and create similar risks. There may be no public market for our notes. Although resales of our notes have been registered with the SEC and our outstanding notes are traded in the Private Offerings, Resale and Trading through Automated Linkages Market of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., these notes are not listed on any securities exchange. We can provide no assurance that an active trading market for these notes will exist in the future. Also the limited liquidity of the trading market for our existing notes, or any notes we may issue in the future, and the market price quoted for our notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for the senior living industry generally. Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long term debt as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $138.0 million and represented approximately 67% of our total book capitalization as of that date. In addition to our indebtedness, we have substantial lease and other obligations. The indenture governing our outstanding notes does not limit the amount of additional indebtedness, including senior or secured indebtedness, which we can create, incur, assume or guarantee, nor does the indenture limit the amount of indebtedness or other liabilities that our subsidiaries can create, incur, assume or guarantee. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors, because: · it could affect our ability to satisfy our debt obligations; · the portion of our cash flows from operations required to make interest and principal payments will not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; · it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; · it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and 17 · it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general than a company with less debt leverage. Conversion rights of our outstanding notes may be detrimental to holders of our common shares. Outstanding notes are convertible into our common shares in various circumstances. The initial conversion rate (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $13.00 per common share) is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of various events, including if we make dividends or distributions on our common shares. If a holder elects to convert these notes in connection with a “make whole fundamental change”, as defined in the indenture governing these notes, that occurs on or prior to October 20, 2011, the conversion rate may be increased by a premium based on the market price of our common shares at the time. Make whole fundamental changes include certain transactions constituting a change of control, our liquidation or dissolution and certain related events. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes will dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders. Any sales in the public market of the common shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common shares. In addition, the existence of the outstanding convertible notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of these notes could depress the price of our common shares. These conversion rights also may make more difficult or discourage a party from taking over our company and removing incumbent management and may discourage or impede transactions that might otherwise be in the interests of our common shareholders. Any future issuance of convertible securities by us may create similar risks. Future issuances of common shares and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common shares. Any issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of our outstanding notes, could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders, including holders who have received shares upon conversion of their notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common shares and of the notes. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and growth strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. In addition, the price of our common shares could also be affected by possible sales of our common shares by investors who view our outstanding notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity involving both our outstanding notes and common shares. This hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of our outstanding notes and of our common shares. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Because we do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, holders who convert our outstanding notes into our common shares will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common shares appreciates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 