Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks we face, together with other information in this document, when you make investment decisions involving our securities. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prices of our securities. Even as the U.S. economy has gradually improved, Europe continues to experience tepid economic growth, high levels of structural debt, persistent long-term unemployment and very low inflation. These persistently challenging market conditions have contributed to political uncertainty in many member countries of the eurozone and continue to negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition in some of our businesses, while a continuing low interest environment and competition in the financial services industry have compressed margins in many of our businesses. If these conditions persist or worsen, we could determine that we need to make changes to our business model. Persistent doubt about the sustainability of the economic recovery in the eurozone continues to materially affect our businesses, particularly through its negative impact on client activity levels. The European Central Bank (generally referred to as the “ECB”) recently announced a new large-scale financial asset purchase program (commonly referred to as “quantitative easing”) in an attempt to counteract these conditions and in particular to lower the risk that the eurozone will enter a period of deflation, which, if left unabated, could exacerbate the already high structural debt and unemployment levels that have persisted and have contributed to political uncertainty in many member countries of the eurozone. By contrast, the U.S. Federal Reserve recently ceased its own quantitative easing program and has stated that it plans to begin raising its benchmark interest rate around the middle of 2015, as growth in the U.S. economy has trended upward. Many economists expect that the global and in particular the eurozone economy will to some extent become dependent on the U.S. to act as the main driver of global economic growth. This may especially be the case as Chinese economic growth continues to slow as a result of the cooling of the real estate market there. Any deceleration of economic growth in the U.S could endanger the still tepid and fragile economic recovery in the eurozone and elsewhere. These macroeconomic uncertainties have been exacerbated by heightened geopolitical tensions, such as those in connection with Ukraine, Russia and the Middle East, which, should they intensify, would have the potential to further undermine confidence in the global economic recovery. In addition, sharp declines in oil and commodity prices in 2014 have led to further uncertainty concerning the resilience of the global economy. Although oil price declines have largely benefited industrialized economies, they have also caused further volatility in emerging markets, which have experienced a divergence between those countries that export energy and those that import it. This has, in many cases, increased the uncertainty with respect to the future levels of foreign investment inflows into such markets. Against this background and these uncertainties, we have observed continued subdued client activity in a number of our businesses, with our credit flow businesses in our Corporate Banking & Securities (CB&S) division affected in particular, although we experienced somewhat improved activity levels in the second half of 2014. The simultaneous easing of monetary policy in the eurozone and the tightening of it in the United States may have disruptive effects on many of our businesses. Our credit flow businesses continue to be affected by the potential tightening of monetary policy in the United States, even as the ultra-low interest rate environment, especially in the eurozone, where it may be sustained, and geopolitical uncertainties have also put pressure on our margins in several traditional banking sectors. We may face further uncertainty if, as it currently appears, the net effect of monetary policies in the U.S. and the eurozone is to continue to weaken the euro against the U.S. dollar. We benefit from a stronger U.S. dollar as a significant portion of our revenues is generated in the United States while our results are reported in euro. A stronger U.S. dollar will, however, also increase the euro values of our U.S. dollar-denominated liabilities, including those incurred in respect of U.S. litigation and enforcement matters, and will also tend to significantly increase our risk weighted assets, including those in the NCOU, that are denominated in U.S. dollars. This can lead to material declines in our capital ratios. These challenges have been exacerbated as we continue to face headwinds from the continuing intensification of the Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 12 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F regulatory environment. A continued high level of litigation and enforcement matters has given rise to reputational challenges, has put further pressure on our profitability and returns, and has made our periodic results more volatile as we often have little control as to the period in which we will resolve active matters. Like many in the investment banking industry, we continue to rely on our trading and markets businesses as a primary source of profit. However, these “flow” businesses, in particular our fixed income securities franchise, have continued to face an extremely challenging environment, especially in the first half of 2014, caused by cyclical uncertainty about the low interest rate environment, central bank intervention in markets and the gradual cessation thereof and overall sluggish economic growth. These negative effects have been exacerbated by the impacts on our profitability from continued de-risking and long-term structural trends driven by regulation and competition that have further compressed our margins in many of our businesses. Should a combination of these factors continue to lead to reduced margins and subdued activity levels in our trading and markets business over the longer term, this could reflect structural challenges that may lead us to consider changes to aspects of our business model. If uncertainty about the macroeconomic environment persists or worsens, these trends may also be difficult for us to counter. More generally, if economic conditions in the eurozone remain at their current subdued levels, or worsen, or if economic growth stagnates elsewhere, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Continued quantitative easing by the ECB in response to this may lead to a continuation of the current environment of low interest rates and margin compression, which may also already affect our business and financial position. By contrast, any decision by the U.S. Federal Reserve or by central banks more generally to tighten their monetary policy if economies continue to improve could have a material adverse effect on perceptions of liquidity in the financial system and on the global economy more generally, and may adversely affect our business and financial position. In particular, we may in the future be unable to offset the potential negative effects on our profitability of the current macroeconomic and market conditions through performance in our other businesses. Regulatory and political actions by European governments in response to the European sovereign debt crisis may not be sufficient to prevent the crisis from spreading or to prevent departure of one or more member countries from the common currency. In particular, anti-austerity populism in Greece and other member countries of the eurozone could undermine confidence in the continued viability of those countries’ participation in the euro. The default or departure from the euro of any one or more countries could have unpredictable political consequences as well as consequences for the financial system and the greater economy, potentially leading to declines in business levels, write-downs of assets and losses across our businesses. Our ability to protect ourselves against these risks is limited. Although the severity of the European sovereign debt crisis appeared to have abated somewhat over the last several years, the emergence of significant anti-austerity sentiment in some member countries, especially in Greece, may contribute to renewed instability in the European sovereign debt markets and in the economy more generally. The austerity programs introduced by a number of countries across the eurozone in response to the sovereign debt crisis have dampened economic growth over recent years, while reform efforts have not yet been able to overcome the extremely difficult structural economic challenges that several eurozone countries continue to face. Against this background, the political leaders of Greece and other affected countries have limited flexibility to counteract these negative macroeconomic trends through fiscal policy, especially as Greece remains subject to the terms of its international debt restructuring. This negative macroeconomic outlook has the potential to cultivate the political support in Greece or other countries to attempt to renegotiate their debt restructurings or to exit from the eurozone. Any resulting political developments could quickly change the economic and financial situation throughout the eurozone, and could affect even the financially more stable countries in the eurozone, including Germany. Substantial doubt remains whether actions taken by European policymakers would be sufficient to contain such a crisis. In particular, the ECB’s quantitative easing program may not improve economic conditions quickly enough or at all in Greece and other economically contracting or stagnant eurozone countries in order to build a political consensus to maintain the course in the eurozone. In Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 13 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F addition, the European Stability Mechanism, generally referred to as the ESM, the special purpose vehicle created by the European Union to combat the sovereign debt crisis, may prove to be ineffective or inadequate in a crisis situation. As economic weakness continues in the eurozone, questions about the long-term growth prospects of the eurozone countries could exacerbate their difficulties in refinancing their sovereign debt as it comes due, further increasing pressure on other eurozone governments. Any political decision by Greece or other member countries to leave the eurozone could lead to tremendous pressure on other member countries to do so as well and could potentially lead to a significant deterioration of the sovereign debt market, especially if the exit did not result in the catastrophic effects on the exiting country that many have predicted. If one or more members of the eurozone defaults on their debt obligations or decides to leave the common currency, this would result in the reintroduction of one or more national currencies. Should a eurozone country conclude it must exit the common currency, the resulting need to reintroduce a national currency and restate existing contractual obligations could have unpredictable financial, legal, political and social consequences, leading not only to significant losses on sovereign debt but also on private debt in that country. Given the highly interconnected nature of the financial system within the eurozone, and the high levels of exposure we have to public and private counterparties around Europe, our ability to plan for such a contingency in a manner that would reduce our exposure to non-material levels is likely to be limited. If the overall economic climate deteriorates as a result of one or more departures from the eurozone, our businesses could be adversely affected, and, if overall business levels decline or we are forced to write down significant exposures among our various businesses, we could incur substantial losses. We may be required to take impairments on our exposures to the sovereign debt of European or other countries as the European sovereign debt crisis continues. The credit default swaps into which we have entered to manage sovereign credit risk may not be available to offset these losses. The effects of the continuing sovereign debt crisis have been especially evident in the financial sector, as a large portion of the sovereign debt of eurozone countries is held by European financial institutions, including us. As of December 31, 2014, we had a direct sovereign credit risk exposure of € 4.6 billion to Italy, € 688 million to Spain and € 100 million to Greece. Despite the abatement of the crisis in recent years, it remains uncertain whether, in light of the current political environment, Greece or other eurozone sovereigns, such as Spain, Italy, Portugal and Cyprus, will be able to manage their debt levels in the future and whether Greece will attempt to renegotiate its past international debt restructuring. In the future, negotiations or exchanges similar to the Greek debt restructuring in 2012 could take place with respect to the sovereign debt of these or other affected countries. The outcome of any negotiations regarding changed terms (including reduced principal amounts or extended maturities) of sovereign debt may result in additional impairments of assets on our balance sheet. Any negotiations are highly likely to be subject to political and economic pressures that we cannot control, and we are unable to predict their effects on the financial markets, on the greater economy or on ourselves. In addition, any restructuring of outstanding sovereign debt may result in potential losses for us and other market participants that are not covered by payouts on hedging instruments that we have entered into to protect against the risk of default. These instruments largely consist of credit default swaps, generally referred to as CDSs, pursuant to which one party agrees to make a payment to another party if a credit event (such as a default) occurs on the identified underlying debt obligation. A sovereign restructuring that avoids a credit event through voluntary write-downs of value may not trigger the provisions in CDSs we have entered into, meaning that our exposures in the event of a write-down could exceed the exposures we previously viewed as our net exposure after hedging. Additionally, even if the CDS provisions are triggered, the amounts ultimately paid under the CDSs may not correspond to the full amount of any loss we incur. We also face the risk that our hedging counterparties have not effectively hedged their own exposures and may be unable to provide the necessary liquidity if payments under the instruments they have written are triggered. This may result in systemic risk for the European banking sector as a whole and may negatively affect our business and financial position. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 14 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F We have a continuous demand for liquidity to fund our business activities. We may suffer during periods of market-wide or firm-specific liquidity constraints, and liquidity may not be available to us even if our underlying business remains strong. We are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk arising from our potential inability to meet all payment obligations when they become due or only being able to meet them at excessive cost. Our liquidity may become impaired due to a reluctance of our counterparties or the market to finance our operations due to actual or perceived weaknesses in our businesses. Such impairments can also arise from circumstances unrelated to our businesses and outside our control, such as, but not limited to, disruptions in the financial markets. For example, we experienced, as a result of the European sovereign debt crisis in 2012, declines in the price of our shares and increases in the premium investors must pay when purchasing CDSs on our debt. In addition, negative developments concerning other financial institutions perceived to be comparable to us and negative views about the financial services industry in general have also affected us in recent years. These perceptions have affected the prices at which we have accessed the capital markets to obtain the necessary funding to support our business activities; should these perceptions worsen, our ability to obtain this financing on acceptable terms may be adversely affected. Among other things, an inability to refinance assets on our balance sheet or maintain appropriate levels of capital to protect against deteriorations in their value could force us to liquidate assets we hold at depressed prices or on unfavorable terms, and could also force us to curtail business, such as the extension of new credit. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of funding pressures arising from the European sovereign debt crisis and the global economic weakness more generally, there has been increased intervention by a number of central banks over the past several years, in particular by the ECB and the U.S. Federal Reserve. In September 2012, the ECB announced an unlimited sovereign bond buying program (referred to as the OMT Program) aimed at keeping the borrowing costs of affected eurozone countries low through the purchase of their debt instruments. In a court order dated January 14, 2014, the German Constitutional Court (Bundesverfassungsgericht) has sought guidance from the Court of Justice of the European Union as to whether the OMT Program is compatible with European law. Although a recent Advocate General Opinion stated that the program should be valid under European law, the Court of Justice of the European Union is not expected to issue a final decision until the summer of 2015. A decision finding that the OMT Program is incompatible with European law could adversely affect the ability of the ECB to invoke the OMT Program and negatively impact the stability of the eurozone. Over the course of 2014, the ECB cut its main refinancing rate to 0.05 %, made liquidity available to the banks via targeted longer-term refinancing operations and, towards the end of the year, launched a program to purchase covered bonds and asset-backed securities. In addition, the ECB has recently announced that it would implement a program commonly referred to as “quantitative easing”, which is designed to keep long-term interest rates low through substantial purchases of long-term financial assets from private institutions. The U.S. Federal Reserve has also expanded its provision of U.S. dollar liquidity to the ECB, which the ECB has then made available to European banks. To the extent these incremental measures, most of which have resulted in the availability of additional liquidity to European financial institutions and the financial markets in the eurozone more generally, are curtailed or halted, this could adversely impact funding markets for all European financial institutions, including us. This could in turn lead to an increase in funding costs, or reduced funding supply, which could result in a reduction in business activity. In particular, any decision by the ECB to discontinue or reduce quantitative easing or by the U.S. Federal Reserve or central banks more generally to tighten their monetary policy will likely cause long-term interest rates to increase and accordingly impact the costs of our funding. In addition, negative perceptions concerning our business and prospects could develop as a result of large losses, changes of our credit ratings, a general decline in the level of business activity in the financial services sector, regulatory action, serious employee misconduct or illegal activity, as well as many other reasons outside our control and that we cannot foresee. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 15 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F Since the start of the global financial crisis and continuing through the European sovereign debt crisis, the major credit rating agencies have lowered our credit ratings or placed them on review or watch on multiple occasions. On July 29, 2014, Moody’s announced it was downgrading our long-term debt and deposit ratings from A2 to A3. On March 26, 2014, Fitch Ratings affirmed our long-term issuer default rating of A+ but moved the respective rating outlook from stable to negative. On April 30, 2014, Standard & Poor’s affirmed our long-term issuer default rating of A but moved the respective rating outlook from stable to negative, and on February 3, 2015, Standard & Poor’s put our long-term ratings on CreditWatch with negative implication. Recent credit rating downgrades have not materially affected our borrowing costs. However, any future downgrade could materially affect our funding costs, although we are unable to predict whether this would be the case or the extent of any such effect. The effect would depend on a number of factors including whether a downgrade affects financial institutions across the industry or on a regional basis, or is intended to reflect circumstances specific to us; any actions our senior management may take in advance of or in response to the downgrade; the willingness of counterparties to continue to do business with us; any impact of other market events and the state of the macroeconomic environment more generally. Additionally, under many of the contracts governing derivative instruments to which we are a party, a downgrade could require us to post additional collateral, lead to terminations of contracts with accompanying payment obligations for us or give counterparties additional remedies. We take these effects into account in our liquidity stress testing analysis, as further described in “Management Report: Risk Report: Liquidity Risk: Stress Testing and Scenario Analysis” on pages 217 through 218 of the Financial Report. Regulatory reforms enacted and proposed in response to weaknesses in the financial sector, together with increased regulatory scrutiny more generally, have created significant uncertainty for us and may adversely affect our business and ability to execute our strategic plans. In response to the global financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis, governments, regulatory authorities and others have made and continue to make proposals to reform the regulatory framework for the financial services industry to enhance its resilience against future crises. Legislation has already been enacted and regulations issued in response to many of these proposals. The regulatory framework for financial institutions is likely to undergo further significant change. This creates significant uncertainty for us and the financial industry in general. The wide range of new laws and regulations or current proposals includes, among other things, provisions for more stringent regulatory capital and liquidity standards, restrictions on compensation practices, restrictions on proprietary trading and other investment activities, special bank levies and financial transaction taxes, recovery and resolution powers to intervene in a crisis including “bail-in” of creditors, the creation of a single supervisor and a single resolution mechanism (“SRM”) within the eurozone, separation of certain businesses from deposit taking, stress testing and capital planning regimes, heightened reporting requirements, and reforms of derivatives, other financial instruments, investment products and market infrastructures. In addition, regulatory scrutiny under existing laws and regulations has become more intense. The specific effects of a number of new laws and regulations remain uncertain because the drafting and implementation of these laws and regulations are still on-going, and may include, for example, material revisions to our risk-weighted assets calculation, changes in our deductions from our regulatory capital and the imposition of additional capital charges to cover financial, market and operational risk. These requirements may be in addition to regulatory capital buffers that may also be increased or be in addition to those already imposed on us and could themselves materially increase our capital requirements. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in how to regulate banks, and this discretion, and the means available to the regulators, have been steadily increasing during recent years. Regulation may be imposed on an ad hoc basis by governments and regulators in response to ongoing or future crises, and may especially affect financial institutions such as us that are deemed to be systemically important. For example, exceptional and temporary capital ratios, such as the one mandated by the European Council in October 2011, may be imposed very quickly. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 16 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F The European Union is in the process of establishing a “banking union” consisting of Germany and members of the eurozone, plus any other EU member states that choose to join. Since November 4, 2014, the ECB has been our primary prudential supervisor, and there is uncertainty to what extent this will result in a change to our regulatory environment. In preparation for direct supervision, the ECB conducted a comprehensive assessment, consisting of an asset quality review and a stress test, the results of which it published on October 26, 2014. We successfully met all quantitative and qualitative requirements of the comprehensive assessment. However, potential costs for litigations were not part of the stress test. In the future, the ECB or other regulators may conduct more stringent stress tests, and failure to meet the respective new quantitative and qualitative requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to pay out dividends. In addition, the regulators having jurisdiction over us, including the ECB and the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, “BaFin”), have discretion to impose capital deductions on financial institutions for financial, market and operational risks that are not otherwise recognized in risk-weighted assets or other surcharges depending on the individual situation of the bank. On February 20, 2015, the ECB required us to maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of at least 10 % (on a phase-in basis). Furthermore, any prospective changes in accounting standards, such as those imposing stricter or more extensive requirements to carry assets at fair value, could also have uncertain impacts on our capital needs. Regulatory and legislative changes require us to maintain increased capital and may significantly affect our business model and the competitive environment. Any perceptions in the market that we may be unable to meet our capital requirements with an adequate buffer, or that we should maintain capital in excess of the requirements, could intensify the effect of these factors on our business and results. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published a set of comprehensive changes to the capital adequacy framework, known as Basel 3, which have been implemented into European Union law by a legislative package referred to as “CRR/CRD 4”. CRR/CRD 4 became effective on January 1, 2014, with some provisions being gradually phased in through 2019. CRR/CRD 4 contains, among other things, detailed rules on regulatory banking capital, increased capital requirements and the introduction of additional capital buffers (which will increase from year to year) as well as tightened liquidity standards and the introduction of a leverage ratio not based upon risk-weightings. We expect to be subject to additional capital buffers, including as a result of being designated a globally systemically important financial institution, or “G-SIFI”. In July 2013, U.S. federal bank regulators issued final rules implementing many elements of the Basel 3 framework in the United States. We may not have sufficient capital to meet these increasing regulatory requirements. This could occur due to regulatory and other changes, such as the gradual phase out of our hybrid capital instruments as qualifying Additional Tier 1 (or AT1), or due to any substantial losses we may incur, which would reduce our retained earnings, a component of Common Equity Tier 1 capital, or due to a combination of these or other factors. One such factor might be a continued decline in the value of the euro as compared to other currencies, causing our risk-weighted assets denominated in these other countries to increase, as described above. In addition, although we executed two transactions to issue AT1 notes with a total eligible amount of € 4.6 billion in 2014, we may be unable to replace our hybrid capital instruments as they are being gradually phased out. As a result, our future leverage ratio under CRR/CRD 4 may be substantially lower than the adjusted pro forma CRR/CRD 4 leverage ratio we have published. This ratio reflects, as of December 31, 2014, the € 10.0 billion of hybrid capital securities that continued to qualify under the CRR/CRD 4 phase-in rules as of that date but that will be phased out of our regulatory capital. If we are unable to build up capital buffers as required by CRR/CRD 4, we may become subject to restrictions on the pay-out of dividends, share buybacks and discretionary compensation payments. In addition, any requirement to increase capital ratios could lead us to adopt a strategy focusing on capital preservation and creation over revenue generation and profit growth, in particular involving the reduction in higher margin risk-weighted assets. If we are unable to increase our capital ratios to the regulatory minimum in such a case or by raising new capital through the capital markets, through the reduction of risk- Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 17 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F weighted assets or through other means, then we may be required to activate our group recovery plan. If these actions or other private or supervisory actions do not restore capital ratios to the levels required by CRR/CRD 4, and we are failing or likely to fail, competent authorities may apply resolution powers under the German Recovery and Resolution Act (Sanierungs- und Abwicklungsgesetz) and other laws. Resolution powers may include the power to require legal and operational changes to bank structures to ensure resolvability, to transfer to another legal entity shares, assets, rights or liabilities of a bank which is failing or likely to fail, to reduce, including to reduce to zero, the nominal amount of shares, or to cancel shares. Furthermore, the competent resolution authority may order the full or partial write-down of hybrid capital and debt instruments or their conversion into shares (commonly referred to as “bail-in”). The exercise of resolution powers could lead to a significant dilution of our shareholders or even the total loss of our shareholders’ or creditors’ investment. In February 2014, the Federal Reserve Board adopted U.S. prudential reforms (the “FBO Rules”) applicable to foreign banking organizations (“FBOs”). FBOs with U.S. $ 50 billion or more in U.S. non-branch assets, such as us, will be required to establish or designate a separately capitalized top-tier U.S. intermediate holding company (“IHC”) to hold substantially all of the FBO’s ownership interests in U.S. subsidiaries by July 1, 2016. Beginning on that date, our IHC will be subject, on a consolidated basis, to the risk-based capital requirements under the U.S. Basel 3 capital framework, capital planning and stress testing requirements (on a phased-in basis), U.S. liquidity buffer requirements and other enhanced prudential standards comparable to those applicable to top-tier U.S. bank holding companies of a similar size. The Federal Reserve Board will have the authority to examine the IHC and any of its subsidiaries. U.S. leverage requirements applicable to the IHC will take effect beginning in January 2018. The Federal Reserve Board has also stated that it intends, through future rulemakings, to apply the Basel 3 liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio to the U.S. operations of some or all large foreign banking organizations. Our combined U.S. operations, including our New York branch, will also be subject to certain requirements related to liquidity and risk management. Our existing U.S. bank holding company subsidiary, Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation, is subject to various U.S. prudential requirements and will become subject to others prior to our establishing the IHC. As of January 1, 2015, Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation is subject to risk-based and leverage capital requirements, liquidity requirements, and other enhanced prudential standards applicable to large U.S. bank holding companies. Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation also became subject to capital planning and stress testing requirements on June 30, 2014. Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation will remain subject to the capital planning and stress testing requirements and certain enhanced prudential standards until corresponding requirements applicable to the IHC become effective. On March 5, 2015, the Federal Reserve Board released the results of the 2015 supervisory stress tests. It found that, even in the severely adverse economic stress test scenario, Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation would maintain capital ratios well above the required minimum levels. On March 11, 2015, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it objected on qualitative grounds to the capital plan submitted by Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation as part of the 2015 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), citing numerous and significant deficiencies across Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation’s risk-identification, measurement, and aggregation processes, approaches to loss and revenue projection, and internal controls. The capital plan did not include any planned dividends or share repurchases. Deutsche Bank Trust Corporation is committed to strengthening and enhancing its capital planning process. On September 3, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board and other U.S. regulators approved a final rule implementing for certain U.S. banking holding companies and depositary institutions both a full and a modified version of the quantitative liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) requirement that is generally consistent with the Basel Committee’s revised Basel 3 liquidity rules, but is more stringent in several respects. Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing regulations require each bank holding company with assets of U.S. $ 50 billion or more, including Deutsche Bank AG, to prepare and submit annually a plan for the orderly resolution of subsidiaries and operations in the event of future material financial distress or failure (the “Title I US Resolution Plan”). For foreign-based covered companies such as Deutsche Bank AG, the Title I US Resolution Plan only relates to subsidiaries, branches, agencies and businesses that are domiciled in or conducted in whole or in material part in the United States. In addition to the Title I US Resolution Plan, in 2014, Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 18 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, one of our insured depository institutions (“IDIs”) in the United States, was subject to the FDIC’s final rule requiring IDIs with total assets of U.S. $ 50 billion or more to submit periodically to the FDIC a plan for resolution in the event of failure under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “IDI Rule”). We expanded our 2014 Title I US Resolution Plan to also be responsive to the IDI Rule requirements. These requirements could require us to reduce assets held in the United States, inject capital into or otherwise change the structure of our U.S. operations. To the extent that we are required to reduce operations in the United States or deploy capital in the United States that could be deployed more profitably elsewhere, these requirements could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any increased capital or liquidity requirements, including those described above, could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on perceptions in the market of our stability, particularly if any such proposal becomes effective and results in our having to raise capital at a time when financial markets are distressed. If these regulatory requirements must be implemented more quickly than currently foreseen, we may decide that the quickest and most reliable path to compliance is to reduce the level of assets on our balance sheet, dispose of divisions or separate out certain activities or reduce or close down certain business lines. The effects on our capital raising efforts in such a case could be amplified due to the expectation that our competitors, at least those subject to the same or similar capital requirements, would likely also be required to raise capital at the same time. Moreover, some of our competitors, particularly those outside the European Union, may not face the same or similar regulations, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition to these regulatory initiatives, market sentiment may encourage financial institutions such as us to maintain significantly more capital than regulatory-mandated minima, which could exacerbate the effects on us described above or, if we do not increase our capital to the encouraged levels, could lead to the perception in the market that we are undercapitalized relative to our peers generally. The increasingly stringent regulatory environment to which we are subject, coupled with substantial outflows in connection with litigation and enforcement matters, may make it difficult for us to maintain our capital ratios at levels above those required by regulators or expected in the market. Since 2008, governments, regulatory authorities and others have significantly tightened the prudential regulation of the financial services industry. These changes and the general lack of international regulatory coordination, including on implementation timetables, have created significant uncertainty for us, especially as regulatory authorities’ discretion in how to regulate banks has also substantially increased in recent years. Even though we currently comply with minimum regulatory capital rules under CRR/CRD 4, regulators may conduct stress tests and impose unexpected enhancements on us that require us to hold capital in excess of the regulatory required minima. These may include, for example, material revisions to our risk-weighted assets calculation, changes in our deductions from our regulatory capital and the imposition of extra capital charges to cover financial and operational risk. These requirements may be in addition to regulatory capital buffers that may also be increased or be in addition to those already imposed on us, and could themselves materially increase our capital requirements. In addition, the single resolution fund under the SRM is expected to have reached a target size of approximately € 55 billion by January 1, 2024 (based upon 1 % of deposits covered under the European deposit guarantee schemes directive), of which approximately € 15 billion is expected to be contributed by German banks. On this basis, we believe our contributions over the coming years to the single resolution fund might be substantial. We also expect that the changes to the European deposit guarantee schemes directive, which must be implemented into German law to become effective July 3, 2015, will require increased annual contributions by us to the German deposit protection guarantee scheme. Moreover, we are required to hold and calculate capital separately for our operations in different jurisdictions. In the United States, the Federal Reserve Board has adopted rules that impose enhanced prudential standards Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 19 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F on our U.S. operations, ultimately leading to higher capital and funding requirements for our U.S. operations. It is unclear whether such increased U.S. capital and other requirements as well as similar developments in other jurisdictions could lead to a fragmentation of supervision of global banks that could adversely affect our reliance on regulatory waivers allowing us to meet capital adequacy requirements, large exposure limits and certain organizational requirements on a consolidated basis only rather than on both a consolidated and non-consolidated basis. Should we no longer be entitled to rely on these waivers, we would have to adapt and take the steps necessary in order to meet regulatory capital requirements and other requirements on a consolidated as well as a non-consolidated basis, which could result also in significantly higher costs and potential effects on our profitability and dividend paying ability. Against this backdrop, our results of operation and financial condition have been negatively affected in recent quarters by a large number of claims, disputes, legal proceedings and government investigations. The extent of our financial exposure to these and other matters could continue to be material and could substantially exceed the level of provisions that we established for such litigation, regulatory and similar matters. In this environment, our compliance costs have also substantially increased. As a result of the substantial uncertainties with respect to our calculation of our capital requirements and the potential outflows in respect of litigation and enforcement matters, we have found it necessary and may find it necessary or desirable to raise additional capital in the future to maintain our capital at levels required by our regulators or viewed by market participants as necessary for our businesses in comparison with our international peers. Rules in the United States, recent legislation in Germany and proposals in the European Union regarding the prohibition of proprietary trading or its separation from the deposit-taking business may materially affect our business model. On December 10, 2013, U.S. regulators released the final version of the rules implementing the “Volcker Rule”, as required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The final rules prohibit U.S. insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with U.S. insured depository institutions (such as us) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options on these instruments, for their own account. The final rules also impose limits on investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds, private equity funds and other private funds and limit the ability of banking entities and their affiliates to enter into certain transactions with such funds with which they or their affiliates have certain relationships. The Volcker Rule requires banking entities to establish comprehensive compliance programs designed to help ensure and monitor compliance with restrictions under the Volcker Rule. In December 2013, the Federal Reserve Board extended the end of the conformance period for the Volcker Rule generally until July 21, 2015. In December 2014, the Federal Reserve Board issued an order extending the Volcker Rule’s general conformance period until July 21, 2016 for investments in and relationships with covered funds and certain foreign funds that were in place on or prior to December 31, 2013 (“legacy covered funds”), and stated its intention to grant a final one-year extension of the general conformance period, to July 21, 2017, for banking entities to conform ownership interests in and relationships with legacy covered funds. The extension of the conformance period does not apply to the Volcker Rule’s prohibitions on proprietary trading or to any investments in and relationships with covered funds made or entered into after December 31, 2013. During the applicable conformance periods, we will continue our efforts to bring our activities and investments into compliance with the rule and to implement appropriate compliance programs. In addition, the German Act on the Separation of Risks and Recovery and Resolution Planning for Credit Institutions and Banking Groups, referred to as the “Separation Act”, was promulgated in August 2013. The Separation Act regulates the activities of banks that take deposits or other repayable funds from the public and lend them for their own account (referred to as “CRR Banks”). CRR Banks are required to transfer certain activities deemed to be high risk to a financial trading institution, which may be established within the same banking group, if certain independence requirements are met. We are required to determine the scope of activities to be separated by July 1, 2015 in conjunction with the competent authority, and are required to implement separation by July 1, 2016. Such separ- Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 20 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F ation may result in higher financing costs for the separated activities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, there are still uncertainties as to which business operations would be required to be separated. The BaFin has been granted broad discretion in this respect. On January 29, 2014, the European Commission published a draft Regulation on Structural Measures Improving the Resilience of EU Banks and Transparency of the Financial Sector, referred to as the “Proposed Regulation”, which, if enacted as proposed, would prohibit certain large banks from engaging in proprietary trading in financial instruments and commodities and investing in hedge funds or other entities that engage in proprietary trading, for the sole purpose of making a profit for its own account. The Proposed Regulation would also grant supervisors broad powers to require these banks to separate certain activities deemed to be high risk from other businesses, such as deposit-taking and lending. The Proposed Regulation is currently being discussed at the European level and might overrule certain requirements set out in the Separation Act at the national level. The Volcker Rule, the Separation Act and the Proposed Regulation may have significant implications for the future structure and strategy of our Group, and may increase our Group’s funding costs. This could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. European and German legislation regarding the recovery and resolution of banks and investment firms as well as proposals published by the Financial Stability Board on Total Loss Absorbing Capacity may result in regulatory consequences that could, if resolution measures were imposed on us, significantly affect our business operations, lead to higher refinancing costs and lead to losses for our shareholders and creditors. On January 1, 2015, the German Recovery and Resolution Act came into force and transposed the European directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms (referred to as the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive or “BRRD”) into German law. Under the Recovery and Resolution Act, the competent resolution authority may take a range of measures including the transfer of shares, assets or liabilities of a failing bank to another legal entity, the reduction, including to zero, of the nominal value of shares or the cancellation of shares outright, and may, in its exercise of the “bail-in” power, write down certain eligible unsecured liabilities, including to zero, or convert them into equity. In order to facilitate the authorities’ bail-in powers, which became effective in Germany on January 1, 2015, banks are required to include conditions in their eligible liabilities issued outside the EU that recognize the regulatory powers to write down or convert debt. Furthermore, affected banks are required to meet at all times a robust minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (“MREL”) which will be set on a case-by-case basis by the competent resolution authority. In addition, on November 14, 2014, the Financial Stability Board (FSB) published a proposal that global systemically important banks (G-SIBs), such as us, should meet a new firm-specific requirement for Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (“TLAC”) alongside minimum regulatory capital requirements from January 1, 2019. Moreover, resolution powers will be conferred on a Single European Resolution Board, which shall be fully operational on January 1, 2016. The bail-in powers and the necessary contractual conditions could result in increased refinancing costs for us. Furthermore, in the event that we are unable to hold sufficient loss-absorbing capital, we could be required to restrict our business or take other measures to ensure our resolvability under the relevant regulations. These steps could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 21 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F Other regulatory reforms adopted or proposed in the wake of the financial crisis – for example, extensive new regulations governing our derivatives activities, bank levies or a possible financial transaction tax – may materially increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business model. On August 16, 2012, the EU Regulation on over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories, referred to as EMIR, entered into force. While a number of the compliance requirements introduced by EMIR already apply, the European Securities and Markets Authority is still in the process of finalizing some of the implementing rules mandated by EMIR. EMIR introduced a number of requirements, including clearing obligations for certain classes of OTC derivatives and various reporting and disclosure obligations. Although some of the particular effects brought about by EMIR are not yet fully foreseeable, many of its elements have led and may lead to changes which may negatively impact our profit margins, require us to adjust our business practices or increase our costs (including compliance costs). The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (which comprises a regulation (“MiFIR”) and a directive (“MiFID”)), the substantive provisions of which will become applicable on January 3, 2017, introduces a trading obligation for those OTC derivatives which are subject to mandatory clearing and which are sufficiently standardized. We will also be impacted by the BCBS-IOSCO final minimum standards for margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives, for which enabling legislation exists in the EU (EMIR) but where much of the impact depends on how these requirements are implemented in detailed rule-making. In the United States, the Dodd-Frank Act has numerous provisions that may affect our operations. Pursuant to regulations implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, we and one of our subsidiaries registered as swap dealers with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and became subject to their extensive oversight. Regulation of swap dealers by the CFTC imposes numerous corporate governance, business conduct, capital, margin, reporting, clearing, execution and other regulatory requirements on us. It also requires us to comply with certain U.S. rules in some circumstances with respect to transactions conducted outside of the United States or with non-U.S. persons. Although the coverage of EMIR and CFTC regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act is in many ways similar, certain swaps may be subject to both regulatory regimes to a significant extent. However, the CFTC’s guidance on cross-border swaps regulation may allow us to comply with some, but not all, U.S. regulatory requirements on a substituted basis by complying with EMIR and MiFID. The new requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect our derivatives business and make us less competitive, especially as compared to competitors not subject to such regulation. Additionally, under the Dodd-Frank Act, securities-based swaps would be subject to a standalone regulatory regime under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The SEC is in the early stages of finalizing rules for its security-based swap regime but it is expected to be parallel to, but not identical to, the CFTC’s regulation of swaps. This may impose further regulation of our derivatives business. In addition, CRD 4 provides for executive compensation reforms including caps on bonuses that may be awarded to “risk takers” as defined in CRD 4. The compensation reforms of CRD 4 could put us at a disadvantage to our competitors in attracting and retaining talented employees, especially compared to those outside the European Union that are not subject to these caps. Bank levies also have been introduced in some countries including Germany and the United Kingdom and other countries. We accrued € 247 million for the German and U.K. bank levies in 2011, € 213 million in 2012, € 197 million in 2013 and € 342 million in 2014, primarily recognized in Consolidation & Adjustments. We will also be required to contribute substantially to the single resolution fund under the SRM and the statutory deposit guarantee schemes under the revised Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive. Generally, however, the total impact of these future levies cannot currently be quantified and they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Separately, on January 22, 2013, the Council of the European Union adopted a decision authorizing eleven EU member states (Austria, Belgium, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain) to proceed with the introduction of a financial transaction tax under the European Union’s “enhanced Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 22 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F cooperation procedure”. The European Commission on February 14, 2013 adopted a draft directive for the implementation of the financial transaction tax. While we expect further progress during 2015, the final scope, design and entry into force (although currently contemplated by January 1, 2016) of the financial transaction tax are still uncertain. Depending on the final details, the proposed financial transaction tax could have a materially negative effect on our profits and business. Different forms of national financial transaction taxes have already been implemented in a number of European jurisdictions, including France and Italy, and these taxes may result in compliance costs as well as market consequences which may affect our revenues. Adverse market conditions, historically low prices, volatility and cautious investor sentiment have affected and may in the future materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits, particularly in our investment banking, brokerage and other commission- and fee-based businesses. As a result, we have in the past incurred and may in the future incur significant losses from our trading and investment activities. As a global investment bank, we have significant exposure to the financial markets and are more at risk from adverse developments in the financial markets than are institutions engaged predominantly in traditional banking activities. Sustained market declines have in the past caused and can in the future cause our revenues to decline, and, if we are unable to reduce our expenses at the same pace, can cause our profitability to erode or cause us to show material losses. Volatility can also adversely affect us, by causing the value of financial assets we hold to decline or the expense of hedging our risks to rise. Reduced customer activity can also lead to lower revenues in our “flow” business. Specifically, our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, directly relate to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and are susceptible to adverse effects from sustained market downturns. These fees and other income are generally linked to the value of the underlying transactions and therefore can decline with asset values. In addition, periods of market decline and uncertainty tend to dampen client appetite for market and credit risk, a critical driver of transaction volumes and investment banking revenues, especially transactions with higher margins. In the first half of 2014 and at other times in the past, decreased client appetite for risk has led to lower levels of activity and lower levels of profitability in our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division. Our revenues and profitability could sustain material adverse effects from a significant reduction in the number or size of debt and equity offerings and merger and acquisition transactions. Market downturns also have led and may in the future lead to declines in the volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and, therefore, to declines in our noninterest income. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients’ portfolios are in many cases based on the value or performance of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals reduces the revenues we receive from our asset management and private banking businesses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, below-market or negative performance by our investment funds may result in increased withdrawals and reduced inflows, which would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management business. While our clients would be responsible for losses we incur in taking positions for their accounts, we may be exposed to additional credit risk as a result of their need to cover the losses where we do not hold adequate collateral or cannot realize it. Our business may also suffer if our clients lose money and we lose the confidence of clients in our products and services. In addition, the revenues and profits we derive from many of our trading and investment positions and our transactions in connection with them can be directly and negatively impacted by market prices, which have been volatile in recent years. In each of the product and business lines in which we enter into these trading and investment positions, part of our business entails making assessments about the financial markets and trends in them. When we own assets, market price declines can expose us to losses. Many of the more sophisticated transactions of our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division and our Non-Core Operations Unit are designed to profit from price movements and differences among prices. If prices move in a way we have not anticipated, we may experience losses. Also, when markets are volatile, the assessments we have made may Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 23 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F prove to lead to lower revenues or profits, or may lead to losses, on the related transactions and positions. In addition, we commit capital and take market risk to facilitate certain capital markets transactions; doing so can result in losses as well as income volatility. Such losses may especially occur on assets we hold for which there are not very liquid markets initially. Assets that are not traded on stock exchanges or other public trading markets, such as derivatives contracts between banks, may have values that we calculate using models other than publicly-quoted prices. Monitoring the deterioration of prices of assets like these is difficult and could lead to losses we did not anticipate. We can also be adversely affected if general perceptions of risk cause uncertain investors to remain on the sidelines of the market, curtailing their activity and in turn reducing the levels of activity in those of our businesses dependent on transaction flow. Since we published our Strategy 2015+ targets in 2012, macroeconomic and market conditions as well as the regulatory environment have been much more challenging than originally anticipated, and as a result, we have updated our aspirations to reflect these challenging conditions. If we are unable to implement our updated strategy successfully, we may be unable to achieve our financial objectives, or incur losses or low profitability or erosions of our capital base, and our share price may be materially and adversely affected. In September 2012, we introduced Strategy 2015+, which has the aim of making Deutsche Bank a better balanced, leaner and more robust and stable organisation. We also announced several financial targets to highlight the financial objectives of Strategy 2015+. As challenges in the macroeconomic and market conditions and the regulatory environment were greater than expected in 2012, in May 2014, we updated our aspirations and strategy and announced a series of measures intended to build up our capital strength, enhance our competitiveness and invest in our client franchises. These measures included capital issuance to improve our capital base and to provide a buffer against future uncertainties. In this context we updated our financial aspirations. While we have recently announced a full strategic review, we remain focused on the execution of Strategy 2015+. Our ability to meet our aspirations and implement our strategy is based on a number key assumptions, including the implementation of regulatory frameworks (e.g. CRD 4, EBA guidance) based on our understanding of current rules and their likely impact on us, global GDP growth stabilising to 2 to 4 % p.a., a stable interest rate environment before 2016 and central bank intervention receding in the U.S. A number of internal and external factors could negatively impact or prevent the implementation of our strategic goals or the realization of their anticipated benefits. These include economic factors such the recurrence of extreme turbulence in the markets in which we are active, weakness in global, regional and national economic conditions, increased competition for business and political instability, especially in Europe. New regulatory requirements may lead to increases in our cost base or restrict our operations. Several regulatory authorities have or are looking to introduce initiatives for structural change. As these governmental initiatives are subject to ongoing discussions, we cannot at this stage quantify any future impact. We are also involved in numerous litigation, arbitration and regulatory proceedings and investigations in Germany and in a number of jurisdictions outside Germany, especially in the U.S. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties. While we have resolved a number of important legal matters and made progress on others, we expect the litigation environment to continue being challenging. If litigation and regulatory matters continue to occur at the same rate and magnitude as in recent years, we may not be able to achieve our Strategy 2015+ aspirations. In particular, our progress towards an adjusted cost-income ratio of approximately 65 % has been impacted by projects and incremental increases in headcount needed to comply with additional regulatory requirements and by increased regulatory charges, such as bank levies, while market challenges, including those related to the low interest rate environment, have impacted our revenue growth. Although we will strive to meet the cost-income ratio target, we expect these headwinds to challenge the progress we made in 2015. Our progress towards an adjusted post-tax return on equity target of around 12 % may continue to be impacted by regulatory induced costs, additional bank levy charges, the on-going challenging market conditions and volatile effective tax rates. We plan to continue to work towards our target, but progress will be difficult in light of current head- Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 24 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F winds. With respect to CB&S, we expect to face significant headwinds to achieve our financial target of an adjusted post-tax return on average equity of 13 % to 15 %, in light of on-going risks and uncertainties in connection with global macroeconomic growth, potential changes to U.S. macroeconomic policy, regulatory expenditures and other developments, particularly relating to the single resolution fund and bank levies, effects of further balance sheet deleveraging, litigation and the costs of further platform enhancements. Our performance target in PBC also continues to face headwinds and may prove to be challenging in the current business environment. Our target is dependent on several factors, including realizing synergies from the Postbank integration. PBC also continues to be affected by on-going market conditions and uncertainties in the regulatory environment. With respect to GTB, we expect the highly competitive business environment to remain challenging and low interest rate levels to persist (having even turned negative in the second half of last year). We expect cost pressures to continue to pose a challenge for GTB. These include increasing regulatory requirements and charges relating to litigation and enforcement matters. While GTB continues to work towards its Strategy 2015+ aspiration, the targeted growth in income before income taxes may prove to be challenging in the current business environment. If we fail to implement our strategic initiatives in whole or in part or should the initiatives that are implemented fail to produce the anticipated benefits, or should the costs we incur to implement our initiatives exceed the € 4.0 billion we have anticipated, we may fail to achieve our financial objectives, or incur losses or low profitability or erosions of our capital base, and our share price may be materially and adversely affected. We operate in a highly and increasingly regulated and litigious environment, potentially exposing us to liability and other costs, the amounts of which may be substantial and difficult to estimate, as well as to legal and regulatory sanctions and reputational harm. The financial services industry is among the most highly regulated industries. Our operations throughout the world are regulated and supervised by the central banks and regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. In recent years, regulation and supervision in a number of areas has increased, and regulators, governmental bodies and others have sought to subject financial services providers to increasing oversight and scrutiny, which in turn has led to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. This trend has accelerated markedly as a result of the global financial crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis. Over the last year, there has been a steep escalation in the severity of the terms which regulators and law enforcement authorities have required to settle legal and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions, with recent settlements including unprecedented monetary penalties as well as criminal sanctions. As a result, we may continue to be subject to increasing levels of liability and regulatory sanctions, and may be required to make greater expenditures and devote additional resources to addressing these liabilities and sanctions. Regulatory sanctions may include status changes to local licenses or orders to discontinue certain business practices. We and our subsidiaries are involved in various litigation proceedings, including civil class action lawsuits, arbitration proceedings and other disputes with third parties, as well as regulatory proceedings and investigations by both civil and criminal authorities in jurisdictions around the world. We expect that we will continue to experience a high level of litigation, regulatory proceedings and investigations. Litigation and regulatory matters are subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. We may settle litigation or regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgment or determination of liability. We may do so to avoid the cost, management efforts or negative business, regulatory or reputational consequences of continuing to contest liability, even when we believe we have valid defenses to liability. We may also do so when the potential consequences of failing to prevail would be disproportionate to the costs of settlement. Furthermore, we may, for similar reasons, reimburse counterparties for their losses even in situations where we do not believe that we are legally compelled to do so. The financial impact of legal risks might be considerable but may be hard or impossible to estimate and to quantify, so that amounts eventually paid may exceed the amount of provisions made for such risks. Actions currently pending against us may not only result in judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, but may also cause substantial reputational harm to us. The risk of damage to our reputation arising from such proceed- Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 25 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F ings is also hard or impossible to quantify. For example, we are unable to quantify the harm to our reputation that could arise from the investigation by the public prosecutor for the City of Munich of statements made by certain former and present management board members in connection with the litigation relating to the former Kirch Group. In addition, the financial impact of legal risks arising out of matters similar to some of those we face have been very large for a number of participants in the financial services industry, with fines and settlement payments greatly exceeding what market participants may have expected and, as noted above, escalating steeply over the last year to unprecedented levels. The experience of others, including settlement terms, in similar cases is among the factors we take into consideration in determining the level of provisions we maintain in respect of these legal risks. Recent developments in cases involving other financial institutions have led to greater uncertainty as to the predictability of outcomes and could lead us to add to our provisions. Moreover, the costs of our investigations and defenses relating to these matters are themselves substantial. Further uncertainty may arise as a result of a lack of coordination among regulators from different jurisdictions, which may make it difficult for us to reach concurrent settlements with each regulator. Should we be subject to financial impacts arising out of litigation and regulatory matters to which we are subject in excess of those we have calculated in accordance with our expectations and the relevant accounting rules, our provisions in respect of such risks may prove to be materially insufficient to cover these impacts. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or reputation. We are currently the subject of regulatory and criminal industry-wide investigations relating to interbank offered rates, as well as civil actions. Due to a number of uncertainties, including those related to the high profile of the matters and other banks’ settlement negotiations, the eventual outcome of these matters is unpredictable, and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We have received subpoenas and requests for information from various regulatory and law enforcement agencies in Europe, North America and Asia/Pacific in connection with industry-wide investigations concerning the setting of London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR), Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR) and other interbank offered rates. We are cooperating with these investigations. The investigations underway have the potential to result in the imposition of significant financial penalties and other consequences for the Bank. As previously reported, we reached a settlement with the European Commission on December 4, 2013 as part of a collective settlement to resolve the European Commission’s investigations in relation to anticompetitive conduct in the trading of Euro interest rate derivatives and Yen interest rate derivatives. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed to pay € 725 million in total. We nonetheless remain exposed to civil litigation and further regulatory action relating to these benchmarks. We have been informed by certain of the authorities investigating these matters that proceedings against us will be recommended with respect to some aspects of the matters under investigation, and we are engaged in discussions with those authorities about potential resolution of those investigations. Regulators are also investigating numerous financial institutions in addition to us, and as details of these investigations and their findings have become public, the reported actions of some financial institutions have attracted substantial attention in the media and the markets, leading to further reputational risk for institutions like us that are currently subject to similar inquiries. In the period from mid-2012 to autumn 2014, five financial institutions entered into settlements with the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (formerly the Financial Services Authority), U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), and other regulators. While the terms of the various settlements differed, they all involved significant financial penalties and regulatory consequences. For example, three financial institutions’ settlements included a Deferred Prosecution Agreement, pursuant to which the DOJ agreed to defer prosecution of criminal charges against the appli- Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 26 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F cable entity provided that the financial institution satisfies the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. The terms of the other two financial institutions’ settlements included Non-Prosecution Agreements, pursuant to which the DOJ agreed not to file criminal charges against the entities so long as certain conditions are met. In addition, affiliates of two of the financial institutions agreed to plead guilty to a crime in a United States court for related conduct. In addition, a number of civil actions, including putative class actions, are pending in federal court in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and in other federal district courts against us and numerous other banks. All but two of these actions are filed on behalf of certain parties who allege that they held or transacted in U.S. dollar LIBOR-based derivatives or other financial instruments and sustained losses as a result of collusion or manipulation by the defendants regarding the setting of U.S. dollar LIBOR. These civil actions are still at a relatively early stage. We cannot predict the effect on us of the interbank offered rates matters, which could include fines levied by government bodies, damages from private litigation for which we may be liable, legal and regulatory sanctions (including possible criminal sanctions) and other consequences. This uncertainty is further exacerbated by several factors outside of our control, such as the high profile of these matters and the contours of other financial institutions’ settlement negotiations. In addition, regulatory and law enforcement authorities may make assessments about the conduct of institutions in the industry as a whole, which may influence their actions with respect to us. Any fines, damages, legal or regulatory sanctions or other consequences may have a material adverse effect, beyond provisions taken, on our results of operations, financial condition or reputation. A number of regulatory and law enforcement agencies globally are currently investigating us in connection with misconduct relating to manipulation of foreign exchange rates. The extent of our financial exposure to these matters could be material, and our reputation may suffer material harm as a result. We have received requests for information from certain regulatory and law enforcement agencies globally who are investigating trading, and various other aspects, of the foreign exchange market. We are cooperating with these investigations. The investigations underway have the potential to result in the imposition of significant financial penalties and other consequences for us. Relatedly, we are conducting our own internal global review of foreign exchange trading and other aspects of our foreign exchange business. In connection with this review, we have taken, and will continue to take, disciplinary action with regards to individuals if merited. We have also been named as a defendant in three putative class actions – two involving non-U.S. plaintiffs and one involving U.S. plaintiffs – brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging antitrust claims relating to the alleged manipulation of foreign exchange rates. On January 28, 2015, the federal judge overseeing the class actions granted the motion to dismiss with prejudice in the two actions involving non-U.S. plaintiffs while denying the motion to dismiss in the action involving U.S. plaintiffs. Many of these matters are still in their early stages and it is accordingly too early to estimate their outcome or any fines that may be levied by governmental bodies or damages that may be incurred from private litigation. A number of other financial institutions are also currently being investigated. Any settlements by these institutions may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions, such as us, in similar actions, especially as large settlements may be used as the basis or template for other settlements. As a result, these matters may expose us to substantial monetary damages and defense costs in addition to criminal and civil penalties, and they could accordingly have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or reputation. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 27 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F A number of regulatory authorities are currently investigating or seeking information from us in connection with transactions with Monte dei Paschi di Siena. The extent of our financial exposure to these matters could be material, and our reputation may be harmed. In February 2013 Banca Monte Dei Paschi Di Siena, which we refer to as “MPS”, issued civil proceedings in Italy against us alleging that we assisted former MPS senior management in an accounting fraud on MPS, by undertaking repo transactions with MPS and “Santorini”, a wholly owned SPV of MPS, which helped MPS defer losses on a previous transaction undertaken with us. MPS claimed at least € 500 million in damages. Subsequently, in July 2013, the Fondazione Monte Dei Paschi, MPS’ largest shareholder, also issued civil proceedings in Italy for damages based on substantially the same facts. In December 2013, we reached an agreement with MPS in relation to the transactions that resolves the civil proceedings by MPS. The civil proceedings by the Fondazione Monte Dei Paschi remain pending. A criminal investigation was launched by the Siena Public Prosecutor into the transactions and certain unrelated transactions entered into by a number of other international banks with MPS. Such investigation was moved in September 2014 from Siena to the Milan Public Prosecutors as a result of a change in the alleged charges being investigated. No charges have yet been brought. Separately, we have also received requests for information from certain regulators relating to the original transactions, including with respect to our accounting for our MPS-related transactions and alleged failures by our management adequately to supervise the individuals involved in the matter. We are cooperating with these regulators. The extent of our financial exposure to these matters could be material, and our reputation may suffer material harm as a result of these matters. Regulatory and law enforcement agencies in the United States are investigating whether our historical processing of certain U.S. dollar payment orders for parties from countries subject to U.S. embargo laws complied with U.S. federal and state laws. The eventual outcomes of these matters are unpredictable, and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We have received requests for information from certain regulatory and law enforcement agencies concerning our historical processing of U.S. dollar payment orders through U.S. financial institutions for parties from countries subject to U.S. embargo laws. These agencies are investigating whether such processing complied with U.S. federal and state laws. In 2006, we voluntarily decided that we would not engage in new U.S. dollar business with counterparties in Iran, Sudan, North Korea and Cuba and with certain Syrian banks, and to exit existing U.S. dollar business with such counterparties to the extent legally possible. In 2007, we decided that we will not engage in any new business, in any currency, with counterparties in Iran, Syria, Sudan and North Korea and to exit existing business, in any currency, with such counterparties to the extent legally possible; we also decided to limit our non-U.S. dollar business with counterparties in Cuba. We are providing information to and otherwise cooperating with the investigating agencies. A number of financial institutions have previously settled matters of this nature by, among other things, payment of significant monetary penalties, and numerous unconfirmed media reports suggest additional potential settlements involving other financial institutions. Although we have no reliable basis on which to compare the on-going investigations relating to us to any potential settlements involving other institutions, it is possible that any such settlements may influence regulatory agencies in their interactions with us. While it is too early to predict, the eventual outcomes of the investigations to which we are subject may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. We have been subject to contractual claims, litigation and governmental investigations in respect of our U.S. residential mortgage loan business that may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or reputation. From 2005 through 2008, as part of our U.S. residential mortgage loan business, we sold approximately U.S.$ 84 billion of loans into private label securitizations and U.S.$ 71 billion through whole loan sales. We have been, and in the future may be, presented with demands to repurchase loans from or to indemnify purchasers, investors or financial insurers with respect to losses allegedly caused by material breaches of representations and warranties. Our general practice is to process valid repurchase claims that are presented in compliance with contractual rights and applicable statutes of limitations. As of December 31, 2014, we have Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 28 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F approximately U.S.$ 4.8 billion of mortgage repurchase demands outstanding and not subject to agreements to rescind (based on original principal balance of the loans). Against these outstanding demands, we have established provisions of U.S.$ 813 million (€ 669 million) as of December 31, 2014 (for part of which we are indemnified). As with provisions generally, however, it is possible that the provisions we have established may ultimately be insufficient, either with respect to particular claims or with respect to the full set of claims that have been or may be presented. There are other potential mortgage repurchase demands that we anticipate may be made, but we cannot reliably estimate their timing or amount. As of December 31, 2014, we have completed repurchases, obtained agreements to rescind or otherwise settled claims on loans with an original principal balance of approximately U.S.$ 5.3 billion. In connection with those repurchases, agreements and settlements, we have obtained releases for potential claims on approximately U.S.$ 72.9 billion of loans sold by us as described above. From 2005 through 2008, we or our affiliates have also acted as an underwriter of approximately U.S.$ 105 billion of U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities (referred to as “RMBS”) for third-party originators. As is the case with a significant number of other participants in the mortgage securitizations market and as described in Note 29 “Provisions” to the consolidated financial statements, we have received subpoenas and requests for information from certain regulators and government entities concerning our RMBS businesses. We are cooperating fully in response to those subpoenas and requests for information. We have a number of pending lawsuits against us or our affiliates as issuer, underwriter and/or trustee of RMBS. Such pending RMBS litigations are in various stages up through discovery and we continue to defend these actions vigorously. Legal and regulatory proceedings are subject to many uncertainties, and the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. Our non-traditional credit businesses materially add to our traditional banking credit risks. As a bank and provider of financial services, we are exposed to the risk that third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. Many of the businesses we engage in beyond the traditional banking businesses of deposit-taking and lending also expose us to credit risk. In particular, much of the business we conduct through our Corporate Banking & Securities Corporate Division and our Non-Core Operations Unit entails credit transactions, frequently ancillary to other transactions. Nontraditional sources of credit risk can arise, for example, from holding securities of third parties; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; executing securities, futures, currency or commodity trades that fail to settle at the required time due to nondelivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries; and extending credit through other arrangements. Parties to these transactions, such as trading counterparties, may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, political and economic events, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Many of our derivative transactions are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling the position difficult. Certain credit derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold, and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation. This could cause us to forfeit the payments otherwise due to us or result in settlement delays, which could damage our reputation and ability to transact future business, as well as impose increased costs on us. Recently enacted legislation in the European Union (EMIR) and the U.S. (the Dodd-Frank Act) has introduced requirements for the standardization, margining, central clearing and transaction reporting of certain over-the-counter derivatives. While such requirements are aimed at reducing the risk posed to counterparties and the financial system by such derivatives, they may reduce the volume and profitability of the transactions in which we engage, and compliance with such provisions may impose substantial costs on us. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 29 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F The exceptionally difficult market conditions experienced since the global financial crisis severely adversely affected certain areas in which we do business that entail nontraditional credit risks, including the leveraged finance and structured credit markets, and may do so in the future. We have incurred losses, and may incur further losses, as a result of changes in the fair value of our financial instruments. A substantial proportion of the assets and liabilities on our balance sheet comprise financial instruments that we carry at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the income statement. Fair value is defined as the price at which an asset or liability could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. If the value of an asset carried at fair value declines (or the value of a liability carried at fair value increases) a corresponding unfavorable change in fair value is recognized in the income statement. These changes have been and could in the future be significant. Additionally, in recent periods there has been a significant difference between fair value and book value for some assets. Observable prices or inputs are not available for certain classes of financial instruments. Fair value is determined in these cases using valuation techniques we believe to be appropriate for the particular instrument. The application of valuation techniques to determine fair value involves estimation and management judgment, the extent of which will vary with the degree of complexity of the instrument and liquidity in the market. Management judgment is required in the selection and application of the appropriate parameters, assumptions and modeling techniques. If any of the assumptions change due to negative market conditions or for other reasons, subsequent valuations may result in significant changes in the fair values of our financial instruments, requiring us to record losses. Our exposure and related changes in fair value are reported net of any fair value gains we may record in connection with hedging transactions related to the underlying assets. However, we may never realize these gains, and the fair value of the hedges may change in future periods for a number of reasons, including as a result of deterioration in the credit of our hedging counterparties. Such declines may be independent of the fair values of the underlying hedged assets or liabilities and may result in future losses. Our risk management policies, procedures and methods leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks, which could lead to material losses. We have devoted significant resources to developing our risk management policies, procedures and assessment methods and intend to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, the risk management techniques and strategies have not been and may in the future not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our quantitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to arrive at quantifications of our risk exposures. During the financial crisis, the financial markets experienced unprecedented levels of volatility (rapid changes in price direction) and the breakdown of historically observed correlations (the extent to which prices move in tandem) across asset classes, compounded by extremely limited liquidity. In this volatile market environment, our risk management tools and metrics failed to predict some of the losses we experienced, particularly in 2008, and may in the future fail to predict important risk exposures. In addition, our quantitative modeling does not take all risks into account and makes numerous assumptions regarding the overall environment, which may not be borne out by events. As a result, risk exposures have arisen and could continue to arise from factors we did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in our statistical models. This has limited and could continue to limit our ability to manage our risks especially in light of the European sovereign debt crisis, many of the outcomes of which are currently unforeseeable. Our losses thus have been and may continue to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, our more qualitative approach to managing those risks not taken into account by our quantitative methods could also prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. Also, if existing or potential Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 30 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F customers or counterparties believe our risk management is inadequate, they could take their business elsewhere or seek to limit their transactions with us. This could harm our reputation as well as our revenues and profits. See “Management Report: Risk Report” beginning on page 56 of the Financial Report for a more detailed discussion of the policies, procedures and methods we use to identify, monitor and manage our risks. Operational risks may disrupt our businesses. We face operational risk arising from errors, inadvertent or intentional, made in the execution, confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated or accounted for. An example of this risk concerns our derivative contracts, which are not always confirmed with the counterparties on a timely basis. For so long as the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. The European sovereign debt crisis and the global financial crisis, in which the risk of counterparty default increased, have increased the possibility that this operational risk materializes. In addition, our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process manually or through our systems a large number of transactions on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. Some of the transactions have become increasingly complex. Moreover, management relies heavily on its financial, accounting and other data processing systems that include manual processing components. If any of these processes or systems do not operate properly, or are disabled, or subject to intentional or inadvertent human error, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We are also dependent on our employees to conduct our business in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and generally accepted business standards. If our employees do not conduct our business in this manner, we may be exposed to material losses. Furthermore, if an employee’s misconduct reflects fraudulent intent, we could also be exposed to reputational damage. We categorize these risks as conduct risk, which comprises inappropriate business practices, including selling products that are not suitable for a particular customer, fraud, unauthorized trading and failure to comply with applicable regulations, laws and internal policies. We in particular face the risk of loss events due to the instability, malfunction or outage of our IT system and IT infrastructure. Such losses could materially affect our ability to perform business processes and may, for example, arise from the erroneous or delayed execution of processes as either a result of system outages or degraded services in systems and IT applications. A delay in processing a transaction, for example, could result in an operational loss if market conditions worsen during the period after the error. IT-related errors may also result in the mishandling of confidential information, damage to our computer systems, financial losses, additional costs for repairing systems, reputational damage, customer dissatisfaction or potential regulatory or litigation exposure. Business continuity risk is the risk of incurring losses resulting from the interruption of normal business activities. We operate in many geographic locations and are frequently subject to the occurrence of events outside of our control. Despite the contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business in any of these locations may be adversely impacted by a disruption to the infrastructure that supports our business, whether as a result of, for example, events that affect our third party vendors or the community or public infrastructure in which we operate. Any number of events could cause such a disruption including deliberate acts such as sabotage, terrorist activities, bomb threats, strikes, riots and assaults on the bank’s staff; natural calamities such as hurricanes, snow storms, floods, disease pandemic and earthquakes; or other unforeseen incidents such as accidents, fires, explosions, utility outages and political unrest. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 31 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F Our operational systems are subject to an increasing risk of cyber attacks and other internet crime, which could result in material losses of client or customer information, damage our reputation and lead to regulatory penalties and financial losses. Among the operational risks we face is the risk of breaches of the security of our computer systems due to unauthorized access to networks or resources, the introduction of computer viruses or malware, or other forms of cyber attack or internet crime. Such breaches could threaten the confidentiality of our clients’ data and the integrity of our systems. We devote significant resources toward the protection of our computer systems against such breaches. To address the evolving cyber threat risk, we are currently expending significant additional resources to modify and enhance our protective measures and to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Nevertheless, a residual risk remains that such measures may not be effective against all threats. Given our global footprint and the volume of transactions we process, certain errors or actions may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. We and other financial institutions have experienced attacks on computer systems, including attacks aimed at obtaining unauthorized access to confidential company or customer information or damaging or interfering with company data, resources or business activities. The increasing frequency and sophistication of recent cyber-attacks has resulted in an elevated risk profile for many organizations around the world, and significant attention by our management has been paid to the overall level of preparedness against such attacks. Cyber security is growing in importance due to factors such as the continued and increasing reliance on our technology environment. Although we have to date not experienced any material loss of data from these attacks, it is possible, given the use of new technologies and increasing reliance on the Internet and the varying nature and evolving sophistication of such attacks, that we may not be able to effectively anticipate and prevent all such attacks. A successful attack could have a significant negative impact on us, including as a result of disclosure or misappropriation of client or proprietary information, damage to computer systems, financial losses, additional costs to us (such as for investigation and reestablishing services), reputational damage, customer dissatisfaction and potential regulatory or litigation exposure. The size of our clearing operations exposes us to a heightened risk of material losses should these operations fail to function properly. We have large clearing and settlement businesses and an increasingly complex and interconnected information technology (IT) landscape. These give rise to the risk that we, our customers or other third parties could lose substantial sums if our systems fail to operate properly for even short periods. This will be the case even where the reason for the interruption is external to us. In such a case, we might suffer harm to our reputation even if no material amounts of money are lost. This could cause customers to take their business elsewhere, which could materially harm our revenues and profits. We may have difficulty in identifying and executing acquisitions, and both making acquisitions and avoiding them could materially harm our results of operations and our share price. We consider business combinations from time to time. Even though we review the companies we plan to acquire, it is generally not feasible for these reviews to be complete in all respects. As a result, we may assume unanticipated liabilities, or an acquisition may not perform as well as expected. Were we to announce or complete a significant business combination transaction, our share price could decline significantly if investors viewed the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve our competitive position. In addition, we might have difficulty integrating any entity with which we combine our operations. Failure to complete announced business combinations or failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into ours could materially and adversely affect our profitability. It could also affect investors’ perception of our business prospects and management, and thus cause our share price to fall. It could also lead to departures of key employees, or lead to increased costs and reduced profitability if we felt compelled to offer them financial incentives to remain. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 32 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F The effects of the takeover of Deutsche Postbank AG may differ materially from our expectations. Deutsche Postbank AG (together with its subsidiaries, “Postbank”) became a consolidated, majority-owned subsidiary of ours in December 2010 following a public takeover offer by us. In June 2012 Deutsche Postbank AG and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Deutsche Bank AG entered into a domination and profit and loss transfer agreement, which became incontestably valid in September 2012. As a result, we have general control over the management of Postbank. The effects of this acquisition on us may differ materially from our expectations. Our estimates of the synergies and other benefits that we expect to realize, and the costs that we might incur, as a result of this acquisition involve subjective assumptions and judgments that are subject to significant uncertainties. Moreover, Postbank’s securities portfolio contains products that may also be subject to material further decreases in value. Furthermore, unforeseen difficulties may emerge in connection with the integration of Postbank’s business, including potential difficulties due to integration of IT systems and personnel, different internal standards and business procedures, the commitment of management resources in connection with the integration process and the potential loss of key personnel. The benefits, synergies, costs and timeframe of the integration could be adversely affected by any of these factors, as well as by a variety of factors that are partially or entirely beyond our and Postbank’s control, such as negative market developments. Any failure to integrate Postbank’s operations on a timely and efficient basis could have a material adverse effect on our net assets, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulties selling non-core assets at favorable prices or at all and may experience material losses from these assets and other investments irrespective of market developments. We may seek to sell certain non-core assets, including those of our Non-Core Operations Unit. Such sales may be made as part of our strategy to meet or exceed the new capital requirements by reducing risk-weighted assets and thereby improving our capital ratios. This strategy may prove difficult in the current market environment as many of our competitors are also seeking to dispose of assets to improve their capital ratios. We have already sold a substantial portion of our non-core assets, and our remaining non-core assets may be particularly difficult for us to sell as quickly as we have expected at prices we deem acceptable. Unfavorable business or market conditions may make it difficult for us to sell such assets at favorable prices, or may preclude such a sale altogether. If the measures announced in response to the European sovereign debt crisis prove inadequate to calm market concern or if the European debt crisis otherwise reignites, we may experience difficulty in obtaining funding in a manner permitting us to conduct our business without needing to dispose of significant volumes of assets. In addition, we have made significant investments in individual companies and have other assets that are not part of our core business such as our stake in Maher Terminals. Losses and risks from those assets and at those companies may restrict our ability to sell our shareholdings and may reduce the value of our holdings considerably, potentially impacting our financial statements or earnings, even where general market conditions are favorable. Our larger, less liquid interests are particularly vulnerable given the size of these exposures. Any potential write-down for any such investment could further negatively affect our business. Intense competition, in our home market of Germany as well as in international markets, could materially adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Competition is intense in all of our primary business areas, in Germany as well as in international markets. If we are unable to respond to the competitive environment in these markets with attractive product and service offerings that are profitable for us, we may lose market share in important areas of our business or incur losses on some or all of our activities. In addition, downturns in the economies of these markets could add to the competitive pressure, through, for example, increased price pressure and lower business volumes for us. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 33 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F In recent years there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among financial services companies, culminating in unprecedented consolidations in the course of the global financial crisis. This trend has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our competitors and has hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. As a result, we must compete with financial institutions that may be larger and better capitalized than we are and that may have a stronger position in local markets. Also, governmental action in response to the global financial crisis may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Transactions with counterparties in countries designated by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism or persons targeted by U.S. economic sanctions may lead potential customers and investors to avoid doing business with us or investing in our securities, harm our reputation or result in regulatory action which could materially and adversely affect our business. We engage or have engaged in a limited amount of business with counterparties, including government-owned or -controlled counterparties, in certain countries or territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions, including Iran and Cuba (referred to as “Sanctioned Countries”), or with persons targeted by U.S. economic sanctions (referred to as “Sanctioned Persons”). U.S. law generally prohibits U.S. persons or any other persons acting within U.S. jurisdiction from doing business with Sanctioned Countries or Sanctioned Persons. Thus, U.S. regulations may extend to activities in other geographic areas and by non-U.S. persons depending on the circumstances. Our U.S. subsidiaries, branch offices, and employees are and our non-U.S. subsidiaries, branch offices, and employees may become subject to those prohibitions and other regulations. We are a German bank and our activities with respect to Sanctioned Countries and Sanctioned Persons have been subject to policies and procedures designed to avoid the involvement of persons acting within U.S. jurisdiction in any managerial or operational role and to ensure compliance with United Nations, European Union and German embargoes; in reflection of legal developments in recent years, we further developed our policies and procedures with the aim of ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements extending to other geographic areas regardless of jurisdiction. However, should our policies prove to have been ineffective, we may be subject to regulatory action that could materially and adversely affect our business. By 2007, our Management Board decided that we will not engage in new business with counterparties in countries such as Iran, Syria, Sudan and North Korea and to exit existing business to the extent legally possible. It also decided to limit our business with counterparties in Cuba. We had a representative office in Tehran, Iran, which we discontinued at December 31, 2007. Our remaining business with Iranian counterparties consists mostly of participations as lender and/or agent in a few large trade finance facilities arranged before 2007 to finance the export contracts of exporters in Europe and Asia. The lifetime of most of these facilities is ten years or more and we are legally obligated to fulfill our contractual obligations. We do not believe our business activities with Iranian counterparties are material to our overall business, with the outstanding loans to Iranian borrowers representing substantially less than 0.01 % of our total assets as of December 31, 2014 and the revenues from all such activities representing less than 0.01 % of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank Item 3: Key Information 34 Annual Report 2014 on Form 20-F In recent years, the United States has taken steps, including the passage of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012, and a number of Executive Orders, to deter foreign companies from dealing with Iran by providing for possible sanctions against companies that provide services in support of certain Iranian activity in (among others) the financial, energy, shipping or military sectors or with certain Iranian counterparties, whether or not such dealings occur within U.S jurisdiction. Among the targets of these indirect, or “secondary”, U.S. economic sanctions are foreign financial institutions that, among other things, facilitate significant transactions with, or provide significant financial services to a wide range of Iranian entities, persons, and financial institutions. We do not believe we have engaged in activities sanctionable under these statutes, but the U.S. authorities have considerable discretion in applying the statutes, and any imposition of sanctions against us could be material. It is also possible that direct and secondary sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other jurisdictions could be expanded in the future. Proposals for expanded sanctions are discussed on a continuous basis in Congress and elsewhere. As required by Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) we have disclosed certain information regarding our activities or transactions with persons subject to U.S. sanctions against Iran and other persons subject to such provision. Such disclosure is set forth in the section of this document entitled “Disclosures Under Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012”, which follows “Item 16H: Mine Safety Disclosure”. We are also engaged in a limited amount of business with counterparties domiciled in Cuba, which is not subject to any United Nations, European Union or German embargo. The business consists of a limited number of letters of credit and of structured export finance transactions, as well as claims resulting from letters of credit, and it represented substantially less than 0.01 % of our assets as of December 31, 2014. The transactions served to finance commercial products such as machinery and electrical equipment as well as medical products. We are aware, through press reports and other means, of initiatives by governmental and nongovernmental entities in the United States and elsewhere to adopt laws, regulations or policies prohibiting transactions with or investment in, or requiring divestment from, entities doing business with Sanctioned Countries, particularly Iran. Such initiatives may result in our being unable to gain or retain entities subject to such prohibitions as customers or as investors in our securities. In addition, our reputation may suffer due to our association with such countries. Such a result could have significant adverse effects on our business or the price of our securities. Table of Contents Deutsche Bank 