Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Future Results, Forward-Looking Information And Certain Important Factors In this report we make, and from time to time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. -13- Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: Risks Related To Our NPCC Business We may not be able to maintain our lead in NPCC technology. At present, we are the only NPCC manufacturer that supplies the tire industry in China and also the largest NPCC manufacturer in China in terms of manufacturing capacity. Our competitive edge depends heavily on the new technology employed in our NPCC manufacturing process. If a better technology than ours can be developed for manufacturing NPCC or a new product can be developed to replace NPCC, we may lose our competitive advantage and our results may be adversely impacted. Our NPCC products have limited application. We may not be able to increase the market for our NPCC products. Presently, our existing NPCC products are used as additives for tires, polyvinyl chloride (“PVC”) building materials, paints and inks. Our products, therefore, depend heavily on a limited number of industries. Our growth potential may be limited if we cannot expand the market for our existing NPCC products or develop new products for other industries. Although we have increased our research and development to expand the range of application of our NPCC products, there is no assurance that we will succeed in our effort. We may not be able to continue to produce high-quality NPCC products, which may negatively impact our business. Our NPCC products are in demand because of their high quality. If we fail to continue to produce high quality NPCC products, our reputation may be harmed and our business may suffer as a result. Our NPCC business depends significantly on the tire industry. If the composition of tires changes and we fail to develop formulas that are applicable for the new composition, our NPCC business could be harmed. Currently, our NPCC business derives a significant amount of revenues from sales to tire manufacturers. Due to our modification technology, our modified NPCC products can be used in tire production to obtain desired properties since the current tire composition allows for calcium carbonate as an additive. If the composition of tires changes in the future, our modification technology may not be compatible with the change. As a result, our NPCC business could suffer. -14- Risks Related to Our Coal-Based Chemical Business Our revenues from coal-based chemical products depend heavily on government policies. If the government changes its policies, our revenues and profit from our chemical products could decrease significantly. To boost the income of millions of Chinese farmers and enhance China’s national security, the Chinese government has instituted policies that encourage farmers in China to increase their production of grains by limiting the price of ammonium fertilizers while at the same time providing the fertilizer industry some relief, including capping the price of raw materials, providing for preferential pricing for electricity and exempting value added tax. Due to the policies, our chemical business is able to realize a profitable margin. However, the Chinese government changes its policies from time to time. If the Chinese government changes the policies currently in place that compensate our loss due to the price control, our revenues and profit from our chemical business could suffer. Our coal-based chemical manufacturing business is highly risky and hazardous. We may face environmental and safety problems. Our chemical manufacturing process produces exhaust gas and waste water which may pollute the environment. If an accident occurs in our chemical plant, toxic gas and other pollutants could leak and cause serious pollution problems. Moreover, most of our chemical products are flammable, explosive, and dangerous, and pose a threat to the health and safety of our employees and residents around our facility, and if any accident occurs during manufacturing or in transportation, there could be dire consequences. Some of our coal-based chemical products experience a glut of supply. Our chemical business may suffer if the oversupply lasts for an extended period. Due to an overcapacity of production facilities and increase in foreign imports, the price for coal based chemicals, especially methanol and melamine, has decreased significantly in the last two years. Due to the low cost of our production process, this price decrease has not had a significant impact on our results. However if the oversupply lasts for an extended period, our chemical business may suffer. China is tightening its environmental law and strengthening its enforcement, which could adversely affect our chemical business. With increased environmental awareness among Chinese citizens, the Chinese government is beginning to tighten environmental laws and regulations. Recently, the Chinese government has stepped up its enforcement efforts due to the occurrence of several significant environmental disasters. Our coal-based chemical plant is located very close to residential and business properties. At present time, we think it is very likely that the government will decide to relocate our coal based chemical business although we have not received any formal instruction. If the government decides to order us to cease operation or relocate, we could be asked to move and relocate in six months and our business could be significantly harmed. Although We are taking steps to identify alternatives for the replacement of volume at risk or to redeploy the business ahead of the government's action, there is no assurance that our effort will succeed. Risks Related to Our Operations Our business, financial condition and operating results depend on our customers’ future success with their products, which may fail to achieve the results we and our customers expect. Currently, we supply the tire industry, the PVC building materials industry, and the paints/coating/ink industry. The potential for growth and success of our NPCC business largely depend on our customers’ future success in their products. If our customers are not successful in developing their products, their demand for our NPCC products may decrease. Our business may be adversely impacted as a result. We and our suppliers and customers are vulnerable to natural disasters which could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We operate multiple facilities and source products from companies who operate facilities, which may be damaged or disrupted as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, and heavy rains, technical disruptions such as electricity or infrastructure breakdowns, computer glitches and electronic viruses. Such events may lead to the disruption of information systems and telecommunication services for sustained periods. They also may make it difficult or impossible for employees to reach our business locations. Damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of products could adversely affect our reputation, our relationships with clients, or cause us to incur substantial additional expenditure to repair or replace damaged equipment or facilities. We may also be liable to our customers for disruption in service resulting from such damage or destruction. Furthermore, the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various materials essential for the manufacturing of our products or result in shortage of our products. If we are unable to procure an adequate supply of raw materials that are required for us to manufacture our products, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. -15- The sales cycle for our products is difficult to predict, which may make it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our operating results and could have an adverse effect on our financial results and share price. If our sales cycle lengthens, our quarterly operating results may become less predictable and may fluctuate more widely than in the past. Due to the relatively large size of some orders, a delayed sale could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly revenue and operating results. If our projected revenue does not meet our expectations, we are likely to experience a shortfall in our operating profit relative to our expectations. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. It is also possible that our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our common stocks will likely decrease. Risks Related to Our Material Supply and Product Distribution The cost of our raw materials fluctuates significantly, which may adversely impact our profit margin and financial position. Both our NPCC and chemical businesses use coal as raw material. In the last few years, coal prices have fluctuated substantially. Although the price for coal dropped last year, it may increase in the future due to the rapid development of the Chinese economy and the resulting demand for energy. If the price for coal increases again, our profit margin could decrease considerably. We are dependent on our suppliers for key materials such as coal and limestone. Coal and limestone are the key raw materials for our business. We use a large amount of coal and limestone in our manufacturing process. We have to purchase these raw materials from suppliers since we do not mine coal or limestone ourselves. As a result, any failure to secure and maintain the purchase and management of such key raw materials could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers. Our business will be harmed if our customers reduce their orders from us. Our NPCC products are sold to only a small number of major customers mainly located in Shandong Province and northern China with large orders each year. Our major chemical product liquid ammonia is sold only to a small number of major customers with large orders located within a short distance of our facilities due to the fact that shipping any product long-distance will make it non-competitive in price. Although no customer individually accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 in our aggregate business, our four largest customers in the tire and PVC segments accounted for 42.5% and 59.48%, respectively, of our revenues from these segments in fiscal 2006. Dependence on a few customers could make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single dominant customer ceases purchasing. If we lose any customers and are unable to replace them with other customers that would purchase a similar amount of our products, our revenues and net income would decline considerably. We extend relatively long payment terms for accounts receivable. If any of our customers fails to pay us, our revenues may be affected as a result. As is customary in China, we extend relatively long payment terms to our customers ranging from 45 to 90 days. As a result of the size of many of our orders, these extended terms adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to fund our operations from our operating cash flow. The failure of our customers to pay us timely would negatively affect our working capital, which could in turn adversely affect our cash flow. -16- Our customers often place large orders for products, requiring fast delivery, which impacts our working capital. If our customers do not incorporate our products into their products and sell them in a timely fashion, for example, due to excess inventories, sales slowdowns or other issues, they may not pay us in a timely fashion, even on our extended terms. This failure to pay timely may defer or delay further product orders from us, which may adversely affect our cash flows, sales or income in subsequent periods. Risks Related to Our Management and Personnel Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure impeding our ability to meet any increased demand for our NPCC products and possibly hurting our operating results. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for existing NPCC products. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · the continued acceptance of our NPCC products by the tire industry; · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; · rapid technological change; and · the highly competitive nature of the fine calcium carbonate industry. If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our NPCC products, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. Meeting any such increased demands will require us to expand our manufacturing facilities, to increase our ability to purchase raw materials, to increase the size of our work force, to expand our quality control capabilities and to increase the scale upon which we produce products. Such demands would require more capital and working capital than we currently have available. We depend on key personnel for our business operations. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially Xiangzhi Chen, our chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, Xukui Chen, head of chemical business, and Zhaowei Ma, head of our NPCC business. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. We have difficulties attracting highly-trained personnel. Our business may be harmed as a result. Our business is located in a small city where there are few institutions of higher learning. Our business, however, requires well-trained technical and engineering personnel. Experienced personnel typically tend to be concentrated in major metropolitan areas and may be unwilling to relocate to a small city. If we are not able to recruit the necessary experienced personnel, we could have a shortage of skilled workers and may not be able to cope with the rapid expansion of our business. Risks Related to Our Technology Our business depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property effectively. If any of our patents are not protected or any of our trade secrets are divulged, we may lose our competitive edge. The success of our business depends in substantial measure on the legal protection of the patents which we are licensed to use or we may co-own as a result of our joint development program with Tsinghua University in China and other proprietary rights in technology we hold. We hold licensed patents in China and have a patent application pending in China regarding technologies important to our business. Monitoring infringement of intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property in China where it may be difficult to enforce the law to protect our proprietary rights as compared to the laws of the United States. The validity and breadth of claims in patents and trade secrets involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the extent of their enforceability and protection is highly uncertain. Issued patents or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent applications or trade secrets may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents that are licensed to us or that may be issued to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our competitors have not developed, or will not develop similar products, will not duplicate our products, or will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by us. -17- We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to products and manufacturing processes. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements. If these contractual measures fail to protect our proprietary rights, any advantage those proprietary rights provide to us would be negated. Our NPCC products are differently formulated for different applications. The formulas are maintained as trade secrets and are revealed only to a small number of technical and management personnel. The trade secrets provide us a competitive edge in the tire industry and no other NPCC manufacturers have successfully entered the tire industry. If any of the trade secrets are divulged, we could lose our competitive edge in the tire industry and others. We may have difficulties in enforcing our intellectual property rights through litigation. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial considerations. We may not be able to secure patent for our membrane dispersion technology for manufacturing NPCC, which may have an adverse impact on our business. Our new NPCC facility in Shaanxi employs the membrane dispersion technology which was developed jointly by us and Tsinghua University. The technology enables us to manufacture NPCC with better quality and lower costs. We have applied to China’s State Patent Office for a patent on the technology. Although our application was published for public comments in May last year, there is no assurance that we will eventually obtain the patent. If the Chinese state Patent Office denies our application because our technology is not patentable or someone challenges our application, our business may be adversely impacted. Risks Related To Our Industry China’s commitments to the World Trade Organization may intensify competition. In connection with its accession to the World Trade Organization, China made many commitments including opening its markets to foreign products, allowing foreign companies to conduct distribution business and reducing customs duties. As a result, foreign manufacturers may ship their NPCC products or establish manufacturing facilities in China. Competition from foreign companies may reduce profit margins and hence our business results would suffer. Our failure to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could hurt our operations and reduce our market share. In China, the chemical industry is undergoing increasing regulations as environmental awareness increases in China. The trend is that the Chinese government toughens its regulations and penalties for violations of environmental regulations. New regulatory actions are constantly changing our industry. Although we believe we have complied with applicable government regulations, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. -18- If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other NPCC product companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business could suffer. The market for our products is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. Our products compete with a multitude of products developed, manufactured and marketed by others and we expect competition from new market entrants in the future. Existing or future competing products may provide better quality, greater utility, lower cost or other benefits from their intended uses than our products, or may offer comparable performance at lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business would suffer. Risks Related To Doing Business In China Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operational results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some changes that could have this effect are: · Level of government involvement in the economy; · Control of foreign exchange; · Methods of allocating resources; · Balance of payments position; · International trade restrictions; and · International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. The economic reforms in China have been conducted under a tight control of the Chinese government. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we hold in Chinese properties. -19- Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi and U.S. Dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. If we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. We may not be able to distribute our assets upon liquidation. Our assets are predominately located inside China. Under the laws governing foreign investment enterprises in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of liquidation. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes after the Enterprise Income Tax Law becomes effective on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders.The Enterprise Income Tax Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25.0% enterprise income tax rate as to their global income, including income we receive from our subsidiaries. The term “de facto management bodies” is not defined under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and it is currently unclear in which situations a non-PRC enterprise’s “de facto management body” is located in China. All of our management is currently based in China, and if a majority of the members of our management team continue to be located in China after the effective date of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and therefore subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income, which will include any dividend income we receive from our subsidiaries. If we are required under the Enterprise Income Tax Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, our revenues could decrease significantly. -20- Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments and making other payments to us or any other affiliated company. We are primarily a holding company and do not conduct any business operations other than our holding of the equity interests in China. As a result, we rely on dividends, consulting and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries in China. Our ability to pay dividend and meet our obligations is partially dependent upon receiving such payments from our subsidiaries in China. PRC regulations permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profits, if any, each year according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds, unless such reserve funds have reached 50% of their respective registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are required to allocate portions of their respective after-tax profits to their enterprise expansion funds and staff welfare and bonus funds at the discretion of their boards of directors. We have limited business insurance coverage in China, which could harm our business. We are exposed to many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, industrial accidents, power outages, and other business interruptions. Furthermore, if any of our products are faulty, then we may become subject to product liability claims or we may have to engage in a product recall. We do not carry business interruption insurance and as a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian influenza in China, or similar adverse public health developments, may severely disrupt our business and operations. A renewed outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, the Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our revenues are derived from, could have a negative effect on our operations. In addition, there have been confirmed human cases of avian influenza in PRC, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Indonesia, Turkey, Cambodia and other countries which have proven fatal in some instances. If such an outbreak or any other similar epidemic were to spread in China, where our operations are located, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: · quarantines or closures of our manufacturing facilities or the retail outlets, which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Risks Related To The Market For Our Stock The trading prices of many companies that have business operations only in China have been volatile, which may result in large fluctuations in the price of our common stock and losses for investors. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many companies that have business operations exclusively in China. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of many of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of these companies could decrease our stock price regardless of our operating results. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; -21- · announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; · announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; · additions or terminations of coverage of our common stock by securities analysts; · statements by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; · conditions or trends in the our industry; and · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other NPCC and chemical companies. The prices at which our common stock trades will affect our ability to raise capital, which may have an adverse affect on our ability to fund our operations. Our common stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” and, as such, the market for our common stock may be further limited by certain SEC rules applicable to penny stocks. To the extent the price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share or we have net tangible assets of $2,000,000 or less, our common shares will be subject to certain “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC. Those rules impose certain sales practice requirements on brokers who sell penny stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000). For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, the broker must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Furthermore, the penny stock rules generally require, among other things, that brokers engaged in secondary trading of penny stocks provide customers with written disclosure documents, monthly statements of the market value of penny stocks, disclosure of the bid and asked prices, disclosure of the compensation to the brokerage firm, and disclosure of the sales person working for the brokerage firm. These rules and regulations adversely affect the ability of brokers to sell our common shares and limit the liquidity of our securities. We do not intend to pay cash dividends. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain in your investment for the foreseeable future. We will incur increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters.As a public reporting company, we will need to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and by The NASDAQ Capital Market, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these laws and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to their requirements. -22- We may not be able to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, a failure which may prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results or detecting and preventing fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities law. Beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we are required to prepare a management report on our internal control over financial reporting containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to the effectiveness or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Our reporting obligations as a public company place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We may require additional capital, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Capital raised through the sale of equity securities may result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to obtain such additional capital could have an adverse impact on our business strategies and growth prospects. If our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders choose to act together, they will be able to exert significant influence over us and our significant corporate decisions and may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our executive officers, directors, and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates will beneficially own approximately 44.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons, acting together, will have the ability to influence significantly the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including investors, by, among other things: · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us; · entrenching our management and/or our board of directors; · impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; · discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; or · causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. It may be difficult for you to enforce any judgment in the United States against our company, which may limit the remedies otherwise available to our shareholders.All of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. -23- Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the SEC. ITEM 