Risk Factors’, as well as general economic conditions in the UK and internationally; inflation, deflation, policies of the Bank of England and other G7 central banks and interest rate, exchange rate, market and monetary fluctuations; changing demographic developments including consumer spending, saving and borrowing habits, technological changes, natural and other disasters, adverse weather, terrorist acts and other acts of war or hostility and responses to those acts; changes in laws, regulations, taxation, Government policies, including those relating to the GAPS and share ownership, or accounting standards or practices and similar contingencies outside Lloyds Banking Group’s control; the ability to derive cost savings and other benefits as well as mitigate exposures from the acquisition and integration of HBOS; inadequate or failed internal or external processes, people and systems; exposure to regulatory scrutiny, legal proceedings or complaints; changes in competition and pricing environments; the inability to hedge certain risks economically; the adequacy of loss reserves; the ability to secure new customers and develop more business from existing customers; the degree of borrower credit quality; the ability to achieve value-creating mergers and/or acquisitions at the appropriate time and prices and the success of Lloyds Banking Group in managing the risks of the foregoing. Lloyds Banking Group may also make or disclose written and/or oral forward looking statements in reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Lloyds Banking Group annual review, half-year announcement, proxy statements, offering circulars, prospectuses, press releases and other written materials and in oral statements made by the directors, officers or employees of Lloyds Banking Group to third parties, including financial analysts. The forward looking statements contained in this annual report are made as of the date hereof, and Lloyds Banking Group undertakes no obligation to update any of its forward looking statements. 139 LLOYDS BANKING GROUP STRUCTURE The following is a list of the significant subsidiaries of Lloyds Banking Group plc at 31 December 2008. Name of subsidiary undertaking Country of registration/ incorporation Percentage of equity share capital and voting rights held Nature of business Registered office Lloyds TSB Bank plc England 100% Banking and financial services 25 Gresham Street London EC2V 7HN Scottish Widows plc Scotland 100%* Life assurance 69 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8Y * Indirect interest 140 INDEX TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-2 Consolidated income statement for the three years ended 31 December 2008, 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 F-3 Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 F-4 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the three years ended 31 December 2008, 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 F-6 Consolidated cash flow statement for the three years ended 31 December 2008, 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 F-7 Notes to the consolidated financial statements F-8 F-1 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Lloyds Banking Group plc and its subsidiaries at 31 December 2008 and 2007 and the results of their operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2008, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). Also, in our opinion the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (‘COSO’). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits which were integrated in 2008 and 2007. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Southampton, United Kingdom 26 February 2009 F-2 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2008 Note 2008 £ million 2007 £ million 2006 £ million Interest and similar income 17,569 16,874 14,108 Interest and similar expense (9,851 ) (10,775 ) (8,779 ) Net interest income 5 7,718 6,099 5,329 Fee and commission income 3,231 3,224 3,116 Fee and commission expense (694 ) (600 ) (638 ) Net fee and commission income 6 2,537 2,624 2,478 Net trading income 7 (9,186 ) 3,123 6,341 Insurance premium income 8 5,412 5,430 4,719 Other operating income 9 532 952 806 Other income (705 ) 12,129 14,344 Total income 7,013 18,228 19,673 Insurance claims 10 2,859 (7,522 ) (8,569 ) Total income, net of insurance claims 9,872 10,706 11,104 Operating expenses 11 (6,053 ) (5,567 ) (5,301 ) Trading surplus 3,819 5,139 5,803 Impairment 12 (3,012 ) (1,796 ) (1,555 ) Profit on sale of businesses 13 — 657 — Profit before tax 807 4,000 4,248 Taxation 14 38 (679 ) (1,341 ) Profit for the year 845 3,321 2,907 Profit attributable to minority interests 26 32 104 Profit attributable to equity shareholders 819 3,289 2,803 Profit for the year 845 3,321 2,907 Basic earnings per share 15 14.3 p 58.3 p 49.9 p Diluted earnings per share 15 14.2 p 57.9 p 49.5 p The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. F-3 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET at 31 December 2008 Note 2008 £ million 2007 £ million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 5,008 4,330 Items in the course of collection from banks 946 1,242 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 16 45,064 57,911 Derivative financial instruments 17 28,884 8,659 Loans and advances to banks 18 40,758 34,845 Loans and advances to customers 19 242,735 209,814 Available-for-sale financial assets 21 55,707 20,196 Investment property 22 2,631 3,722 Goodwill 23 2,256 2,358 Value of in-force business 24 1,893 2,218 Other intangible assets 25 197 149 Tangible fixed assets 26 2,965 2,839 Current tax recoverable 300 — Deferred tax assets 38 833 — Other assets 27 5,856 5,063 Total assets 436,033 353,346 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. The directors approved the consolidated financial statements on 26 February 2009. Sir Victor Blank J Eric Daniels Tim J W Tookey Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director F-4 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET at 31 December 2008 Equity and liabilities Note 2008 £ million 2007 £ million Liabilities Deposits from banks 28 66,514 39,091 Customer accounts 29 170,938 156,555 Items in course of transmission to banks 508 668 Trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 30 6,754 3,206 Derivative financial instruments 17 26,892 7,582 Debt securities in issue 31 75,710 51,572 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 32 33,792 38,063 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 34 14,243 18,197 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 35 270 554 Other liabilities 36 11,456 9,690 Retirement benefit obligations 37 1,771 2,144 Current tax liabilities — 484 Deferred tax liabilities 38 — 948 Other provisions 39 230 209 Subordinated liabilities 40 17,256 11,958 Total liabilities 426,334 340,921 Equity Share capital 41 1,513 1,432 Share premium account 42 2,096 1,298 Other reserves 43 (2,476 ) (60 ) Retained profits 44 8,260 9,471 Shareholders’ equity 9,393 12,141 Minority interests 306 284 Total equity 9,699 12,425 Total equity and liabilities 436,033 353,346 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. F-5 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Attributable to equity shareholders Share capital and premium £ million Other reserves £ million Retained profits £ million Total £ million Minority interests £ million Total £ million Balance at 1 January 2006 2,590 395 7,210 10,195 435 10,630 Movement in available-for-sale financial assets, net of tax: – change in fair value — (10 ) — (10 ) — (10 ) – transferred to income statement in respect of disposals — (21 ) — (21 ) — (21 ) Movement in cash flow hedges, net of tax — 1 — 1 — 1 Currency translation differences — (29 ) — (29 ) (4 ) (33 ) Net income recognised directly in equity — (59 ) — (59 ) (4 ) (63 ) Profit for the year — — 2,803 2,803 104 2,907 Total recognised income for 2006 — (59 ) 2,803 2,744 100 2,844 Dividends — — (1,919 ) (1,919 ) (32 ) (1,951 ) Purchase/sale of treasury shares — — (35 ) (35 ) — (35 ) Employee share option schemes: – value of employee services — — 65 65 — 65 – proceeds from shares issued 105 — — 105 — 105 Repayment of capital to minority shareholders — — — — (151 ) (151 ) Balance at 31 December 2006 2,695 336 8,124 11,155 352 11,507 Movement in available-for-sale financial assets, net of tax: – change in fair value — (436 ) — (436 ) — (436 ) – transferred to income statement in respect of disposals — (5 ) — (5 ) — (5 ) – transferred to income statement in respect of impairment — 49 — 49 — 49 – disposal of businesses — (6 ) — (6 ) — (6 ) Movement in cash flow hedges, net of tax — (15 ) — (15 ) — (15 ) Currency translation differences — 17 — 17 (1 ) 16 Net income recognised directly in equity — (396 ) — (396 ) (1 ) (397 ) Profit for the year — — 3,289 3,289 32 3,321 Total recognised income for 2007 — (396 ) 3,289 2,893 31 2,924 Dividends — — (1,957 ) (1,957 ) (19 ) (1,976 ) Purchase/sale of treasury shares — — (1 ) (1 ) — (1 ) Employee share option schemes: – value of employee services — — 16 16 — 16 – proceeds from shares issued 35 — — 35 — 35 Repayment of capital to minority shareholders — — — — (80 ) (80 ) Balance at 31 December 2007 2,730 (60 ) 9,471 12,141 284 12,425 Movement in available-for-sale financial assets, net of tax: – change in fair value — (2,059 ) — (2,059 ) 28 (2,031 ) – transferred to income statement in respect of disposals — (19 ) — (19 ) — (19 ) – transferred to income statement in respect of impairment — 102 — 102 — 102 – other transfers to income statement — (66 ) — (66 ) — (66 ) Movement in cash flow hedges, net of tax — (12 ) — (12 ) — (12 ) Currency translation differences — (362 ) — (362 ) — (362 ) Net income recognised directly in equity — (2,416 ) — (2,416 ) 28 (2,388 ) Profit for the year — — 819 819 26 845 Total recognised income for 2008 — (2,416 ) 819 (1,597 ) 54 (1,543 ) Dividends — — (2,042 ) (2,042 ) (29 ) (2,071 ) Private placement of ordinary shares 760 — — 760 — 760 Purchase/sale of treasury shares — — 16 16 — 16 Employee share option schemes: – value of employee services — — (4 ) (4 ) — (4 ) – proceeds from shares issued 119 — — 119 — 119 Repayment of capital to minority shareholders — — — — (3 ) (3 ) Balance at 31 December 2008 3,609 (2,476 ) 8,260 9,393 306 9,699 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. F-6 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2008 Note 2008 £ million 2007 £ million 2006 £ million Profit before tax 807 4,000 4,248 Adjustments for: Change in operating assets 50 (A) (43,025 ) (16,982 ) (31,995 ) Change in operating liabilities 50 (B) 80,933 21,541 33,069 Non-cash and other items 50 (C) (4,064 ) 2,784 1,555 Tax paid (810 ) (859 ) (798 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 33,841 10,484 6,079 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets (144,680 ) (21,667 ) (23,448 ) Proceeds from sale and maturity of available-for-sale financial assets 110,470 19,468 18,106 Purchase of fixed assets (1,436 ) (1,334 ) (1,724 ) Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 579 982 1,257 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 50 (F) (19 ) (8 ) (20 ) Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed 50 (G) — 1,476 936 Net cash used in investing activities (35,086 ) (1,083 ) (4,893 ) Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid to equity shareholders (2,042 ) (1,957 ) (1,919 ) Dividends paid to minority interests 50 (E) (29 ) (19 ) (32 ) Interest paid on subordinated liabilities (771 ) (709 ) (713 ) Proceeds from issue of subordinated liabilities 50 (E) 3,021 — 1,116 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 50 (E) 879 35 105 Repayment of subordinated liabilities 50 (E) (381 ) (300 ) (759 ) Repayment of capital to minority shareholders 50 (E) (3 ) (80 ) (151 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 674 (3,030 ) (2,353 ) Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,440 82 (148 ) Change in cash and cash equivalents 869 6,453 (1,315 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 31,891 25,438 26,753 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 50 (D) 32,760 31,891 25,438 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. F-7 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION During 2008, global financial markets experienced difficult conditions which have been characterised by a marked reduction in liquidity. As a consequence of this, Governments and central banks carried out a series of actions to address the lack of liquidity within their respective banking systems. In the UK these actions have included the introduction of the Bank of England’s Special Liquidity Scheme whereby banks and building societies can exchange eligible securities for UK Treasury bills; and the creation of a credit guarantee scheme by HM Treasury, providing a Government guarantee for certain short and medium term senior debt securities issued by eligible banks. During 2008 the Group has made use of these measures in order to maintain and improve a stable funding position. The Group’s management of liquidity and funding risks is described on pages 65 to 67. In the context of this continued turbulence and uncertainty in the financial markets, combined with a deteriorating global economic outlook, the Group has also taken steps to strengthen its capital position (see note 52 for details of the preference and ordinary share capital issued by the Group in January 2009) in order to provide a buffer against further shocks arising from the financial systems and to ensure that it remains competitive. There is a risk that, despite the substantial measures taken by Governments, further deterioration in the markets could occur. In addition the economic conditions in the UK are deteriorating more quickly than previously anticipated placing greater strain on the Group’s capital resources. The key dependencies on successfully funding the Group’s balance sheet include the continued functioning of the money and capital markets at their current levels; the continued access of the Group to central bank and Government sponsored liquidity facilities, including issuance under HM Treasury’s credit guarantee scheme and access to the Bank of England’s various facilities; limited further deterioration in the Group’s credit ratings; and no significant or sudden withdrawal of deposits resulting in increased reliance on money markets or Government support schemes. Based upon projections prepared by management which take into account the acquisition on 16 January 2009 of HBOS plc together with the Group’s current ability to fund in the market and the assumption that the announced Government sponsored schemes will continue to be available, the directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the financial statements of the Company and the Group have been prepared on a going concern basis. 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). IFRS comprises accounting standards prefixed IFRS issued by the IASB and those prefixed IAS issued by the IASB’s predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee and its predecessor body. The financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, available-for-sale financial assets, trading securities and certain other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and all derivative contracts. The following IFRS pronouncements relevant to the Group have been adopted in these consolidated financial statements: (i) IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions. This interpretation clarifies the application of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to certain share-based payment arrangements involving own equity instruments and arrangements involving equity instruments of a parent entity. The application of this new interpretation has not had any impact for amounts recognised in these financial statements. (ii) IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirement and their Interaction. This interpretation provides guidance on assessing the amount of a pension surplus that can be recognised as an asset and explains how a minimum funding requirement might either affect the availability of reductions in future contributions or give rise to a liability. The application of this new interpretation has not had any impact for amounts recognised in these financial statements. (iii) Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Reclassification of Financial Assets. The amendment to IAS 39 permits reclassification of non-derivative financial assets (other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss by the entity upon initial recognition) out of the fair value through profit or loss category in certain circumstances and permits the transfer of a financial asset from the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivables category where that financial asset would have met the definition of loans and receivables at the time of reclassification (if the financial asset had not been designated as available-for-sale) and where there is both the intention and ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future. The amendment to IFRS 7 requires additional disclosures about the situations in which any such reclassification is made and the effects on the financial statements including details of the carrying amounts and fair values for all financial assets that have been reclassified until they are derecognised and the fair value gain or loss that would have been recognised in the income statement or equity, as appropriate, if the financial asset had not been reclassified. For eligible reclassifications made before 1 November 2008, these amendments became effective from 1 July 2008. Details of the financial assets reclassified in accordance with this amendment are set out in note 49. Details of those IFRS pronouncements which will be relevant to the Group but which were not effective at 31 December 2008 and which have not been applied in preparing these financial statements are given in note 51. F-8 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The Group’s accounting policies are set out below. (A) CONSOLIDATION The assets, liabilities and results of Group undertakings (including special purpose entities) are included in the financial statements on the basis of accounts made up to the reporting date. Group undertakings include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies which generally accompanies a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. Group undertakings are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group; they are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. Open Ended Investment Companies (OEICs) where the Group, through the Group’s life funds, has a controlling interest are consolidated; the unitholders’ interest is reported in other liabilities. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the Group. Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the income statement. Purchases from minority interests result in goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary. (B) GOODWILL Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is tested at least annually for impairment. If an impairment is identified the carrying value of the goodwill is written down immediately through the income statement and is not subsequently reversed. At the date of disposal of a Group undertaking, the carrying value of attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal except where it has been written off directly to reserves in the past. (C) OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible assets comprise capitalised software enhancements and customer lists. Capitalised software enhancements are amortised over periods not exceeding five years, being their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method. Customer lists are amortised over periods not exceeding 15 years, being their estimated useful lives, in line with the income expected to arise from those customers and are subject to annual reassessment. All other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or any changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. In the event that an asset’s carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, it is written down immediately. (D) REVENUE RECOGNITION Interest income and expense are recognised in the income statement for all interest-bearing financial instruments, except for those classified at fair value through profit or loss, using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts over the expected life of the instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. The effective interest rate is calculated on initial recognition of the financial asset or liability, estimating the future cash flows after considering all the contractual terms of the instrument but not future credit losses. The calculation includes all amounts paid or received by the Group including expected early redemptions and related penalties and premiums and discounts that are an integral part of the overall return as well as direct incremental transaction costs related to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial instrument. Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss (see J). Fees and commissions which are not an integral part of the effective interest rate are generally recognised when the service has been provided. Loan commitment fees for loans that are likely to be drawn down are deferred (together with related direct costs) and recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate on the loan. Loan syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has been completed and the Group retains no part of the loan package for itself or retains a part at the same effective interest rate for all interest-bearing financial instruments, including loans and advances, as for the other participants. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Revenue recognition policies specific to life assurance and general insurance business are detailed below (see R). (E) TRADING SECURITIES, OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS, AND AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Debt securities and equity shares acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or which are part of a portfolio which is managed for short-term gains are classified as trading securities and recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value together with interest coupons and dividend income are recognised in the income statement within net trading income in the period in which they occur. F-9 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such by management upon initial recognition. Such assets and liabilities are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value together with interest coupons and dividend income are recognised in the income statement within net trading income in the period in which they occur. Financial assets and liabilities are designated as at fair value through profit or loss on acquisition in the following circumstances: – When doing so results in more relevant information because either: – it eliminates or significantly reduces the inconsistent treatment that would otherwise arise from measuring the assets and liabilities or recognising gains or losses on different bases; or – the assets and liabilities are part of a group which is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, with management information also prepared on this basis. – Where the assets and liabilities contain one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the cash flows arising under the contract and would otherwise need to be separately accounted for. The fair values of assets and liabilities traded in active markets are based on current bid and offer prices respectively. If the market is not active the Group establishes a fair value by using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants. Refer to note 3 (Critical accounting estimates and judgements: Valuation of financial instruments) and note 49 (Financial risk management: Fair values of financial assets and liabilities) for details of valuation techniques and significant inputs to valuation models. The Group is permitted to reclassify, at fair value at the date of transfer, non-derivative financial assets (other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss by the entity upon initial recognition) out of the trading category if they are no longer held for the purpose of being sold or repurchased in the near term, as follows: – if the financial assets would have met the definition of loans and receivables (but for the fact that they had to be classified as held for trading at initial recognition), they may be reclassified into loans and receivables where the Group has the intention and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity; – if the financial assets would not have met the definition of loans and receivables, they may be reclassified out of the held for trading category into available-for-sale financial assets in ‘rare circumstances’. Debt securities and equity shares, other than those classified as trading securities or at fair value through profit or loss, are classified as available-for-sale and recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value; available-for-sale investments are those intended to be held for an indeterminate period of time and may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the financial asset is either sold, becomes impaired or matures, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement. Interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement. The Group is permitted to transfer, at fair value at the date of transfer, a financial asset from the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivables category where that asset would have met the definition of loans and receivables at the time of reclassification (if the financial asset had not been designated as available-for-sale) and where there is both the intention and ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future. For assets transferred, gains or losses recognised in equity in respect of these assets as at the date of transfer are amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life of the asset using the effective interest method. Purchases and sales of securities and other financial assets and liabilities are recognised on trade date, being the date that the Group is committed to purchase or sell an asset. Trading securities and other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value. Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value inclusive of transaction costs. These financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. (F) LOANS AND ADVANCES TO BANKS AND CUSTOMERS Loans and advances to banks and customers, including any eligible assets transferred into these categories out of the fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale financial assets categories, are accounted for at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except those which the Group intends to sell in the near term and which are accounted for at fair value, with the gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value reflected in the income statement. Loans and advances are initially recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers at fair value inclusive of transaction costs. Loans and advances are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from them have expired or where the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. The Group has entered into securitisation and similar transactions to finance certain loans and advances to customers. Such financial assets continue to be recognised by the Group, together with a corresponding liability for the funding except in those cases where substantially all of the risks and rewards associated with the assets have been transferred or a significant proportion but not all of the risks and rewards have been transferred and the transferee has the ability to sell the assets when the assets are derecognised in full. If a fully proportional share of all, or of specifically identified, cash flows have been transferred, then that proportion of the assets is derecognised. F-10 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued (G) SALE AND REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements (‘repos’) are recognised on the balance sheet where all of the risks and rewards are retained; the counterparty liability is included in deposits from banks or customer accounts, as appropriate. Securities purchased under agreements to resell (‘reverse repos’) are recorded as loans and advances to banks or customers, as appropriate. The difference between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.Securities lent to counterparties are retained in the financial statements. Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the obligation to return them is recorded at fair value as a trading liability. (H) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING All derivatives are recognised at their fair value. Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and options pricing models, as appropriate. Derivatives are carried in the balance sheet as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative. Refer to note 3 (Critical accounting estimates and judgements: Valuation of financial instruments) and note 49 (Financial risk management: Fair values of financial assets and liabilities) for details of valuation techniques and significant inputs to valuation models. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that is not part of a hedging relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement.Derivatives embedded in financial instruments and insurance contracts (unless the embedded derivative is itself an insurance contract) are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value through profit or loss. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. In accordance with IFRS 4, a policyholder’s option to surrender an insurance contract for a fixed amount is not treated as an embedded derivative.The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of the derivatives depends on whether they are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. Derivatives may only be designated as hedges provided certain strict criteria are met. At the inception of a hedge its terms must be clearly documented and there must be an expectation that the derivative will be highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flow of the hedged risk. The effectiveness of the hedging relationship must be tested throughout its life and if at any point it is concluded that it is no longer highly effective in achieving its objective the hedge relationship is terminated.The Group designates certain derivatives as either: (1) hedges of the fair value of the particular risks inherent in recognised assets or liabilities (fair value hedges); (2) hedges of highly probable future cash flows attributable to recognised assets or liabilities (cash flow hedges); or (3) hedges of net investments in foreign operations (net investment hedges). These are accounted for as follows:(1) FAIR VALUE HEDGES Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk; this also applies if the hedged asset is classified as an available-for-sale financial asset. If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value attributable to the hedged risk are no longer recognised in the income statement; the adjustment that has been made to the carrying amount of a hedged item is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity. (2) CASH FLOW HEDGES The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss. When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. (3) NET INVESTMENT HEDGES Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity; the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of. (I) OFFSET Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right of set-off and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. (J) IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS (1) ASSETS ACCOUNTED FOR AT AMORTISED COST At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether, as a result of one or more events occurring after initial recognition, there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets has become impaired.The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment loss include: – Delinquency in contractual payments of principal and/or interest; – Indications that the borrower or group of borrowers is experiencing significant financial difficulty; – Restructuring of debt to reduce the burden on the borrower; – Breach of loan covenants or conditions; and – Initiation of bankruptcy or individual voluntary arrangement proceedings. F-11 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The estimated period between a loss occurring and its identification is determined by local management for each identified portfolio. In general, the periods used vary between two months and twelve months. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, an allowance is established which is calculated as the difference between the balance sheet carrying value of the asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at that asset’s original effective interest rate. For the Group’s portfolios of smaller balance homogenous loans, such as the residential mortgage, personal lending and credit card portfolios, allowances are calculated for groups of assets taking into account historical cash flow experience. For the Group’s other lending portfolios, allowances are established on a case-by-case basis. If an asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate used for measuring the impairment loss is the current effective interest rate. The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash flows of a collateralised asset or group of assets reflects the cash flows that may result from foreclosure less the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable. If there is no objective evidence of individual impairment the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assessed for impairment. Segmentation takes into account such factors as the type of asset, industry, geographical location, collateral type, past-due status and other relevant factors. These characteristics are relevant to the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets as they are indicative of the borrower’s ability to pay all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated. Future cash flows are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows of the assets in the Group and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics. Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently. The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash flows are reviewed regularly by the Group to reduce any differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, such as an improvement in the borrower’s credit rating, the allowance is adjusted and the amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement. A loan or advance is normally written off, either partially or in full, against the related allowance when the proceeds from realising any available security have been received or there is no realistic prospect of recovery (as a result of the customer’s insolvency, ceasing to trade or other reason) and the amount of the loss has been determined. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of impairment losses recorded in the income statement. (2) AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired. In addition to the criteria for financial assets accounted for at amortised cost set out above, this assessment involves reviewing the current financial circumstances (including creditworthiness) and future prospects of the issuer assessing the future cash flows expected to be realised and, in the case of equity shares, considering whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost. If an impairment loss has been incurred, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost (net of any principal repayment and amortisation) and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised, is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement. For impaired debt instruments, impairment losses are recognised in subsequent periods when it is determined that there has been a further negative impact on expected future cash flows; a reduction in fair value caused by general widening of credit spreads would not, of itself, result in additional impairment. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, an amount not greater than the original impairment loss is credited to the income statement; any excess is taken to the available-for-sale reserve. Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement. (3) RENEGOTIATED LOANS Loans that are either subject to collective impairment assessment or individually significant and whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered to be past due but are treated as new loans. In subsequent years, the asset is considered to be past due and disclosed only if further renegotiated. (K) INVESTMENT PROPERTY Property held for long-term rental yields and capital appreciation within the long-term assurance funds is classified as investment property. Investment property comprises freehold and long leasehold land and buildings and is carried in the balance sheet at fair value, being the open market value as determined in accordance with the guidance published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. If this information is not available, the Group uses alternative valuation methods such as discounted cash flow projections or recent prices on less active markets. These valuations are reviewed at least annually by an independent valuation expert. Investment property being redeveloped for continuing use as investment property, or for which the market has become less active, continues to be measured at fair value. Changes in fair value are recorded in the income statement. F-12 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued (L) TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Tangible fixed assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation. The value of land (included in premises) is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the difference between the cost and the residual value over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Premises (excluding land): – Freehold/long and short leasehold premises: shorter of 50 years or the remaining period of the lease – Leasehold improvements: shorter of 10 years or, if lease renewal is not likely, the remaining period of the lease Equipment: – Fixtures and furnishings: 10-20 years – Other equipment and motor vehicles: 2-8 years The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. In the event that an asset’s carrying amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount it is written down immediately. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. (M) LEASES (1) AS LESSEE The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases. Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. When an operating lease is terminated before the end of the lease period, any payment made to the lessor by way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period of termination. (2) AS LESSOR Assets leased to customers are classified as finance leases if the lease agreements transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee; all other leases are classified as operating leases. When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable within loans and advances to banks and customers. Finance lease income is recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method (before tax) reflecting a constant periodic rate of return. Operating lease assets are included within tangible fixed assets at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives, which equates to the lives of the leases, after taking into account anticipated residual values. Operating lease rental income is recognised on a straight line basis over the life of the lease. The Group evaluates non-lease arrangements such as outsourcing and similar contracts to determine if they contain a lease which is then accounted for separately. (N) BORROWINGS Borrowings (which include deposits from banks, customer accounts, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities) are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Preference shares and other instruments which carry a mandatory coupon or are redeemable on a specific date are classified as financial liabilities. The coupon on these instruments is recognised in the income statement as interest expense. (O) PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates a number of post-retirement benefit schemes for its employees including both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan into which the Group pays fixed contributions; there is no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions. Full actuarial valuations of the Group’s principal defined benefit schemes are carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years; these valuations are updated to 31 December each year by qualified independent actuaries, or in the case of the Scottish Widows Retirement Benefits Scheme, by a qualified actuary employed by Scottish Widows. For the purposes of these annual updates scheme assets are included at their fair value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method adjusted for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses. The defined benefit scheme liabilities are discounted using rates equivalent to the market yields at the balance sheet date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. The Group’s income statement includes the current service cost of providing pension benefits, the expected return on the schemes’ assets, net of expected administration costs, and the interest cost on the schemes’ liabilities. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are not recognised unless the cumulative unrecognised gain or loss at the end of the previous reporting period exceeds the greater of 10 per cent of the scheme assets or liabilities (‘the corridor approach’). In these circumstances the excess is charged or credited to the income statement over the employees’ expected average remaining working lives. Past service costs are charged immediately to the income statement, unless the charges are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. F-13 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The Group’s balance sheet includes the net surplus or deficit, being the fair value of scheme assets less the discounted value of scheme liabilities adjusted for the corridor. Surpluses are only recognised to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes. The Group recognises the effect of material changes to the terms of its defined benefit pension plans which reduce future benefits as curtailments; gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the curtailments occur. The costs of the Group’s defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due. (P) SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The value of the employee services received in exchange for equity instruments granted under these plans is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the instruments, with a corresponding increase in equity. This expense is determined by reference to the fair value of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest. The fair value of equity instruments granted is based on market prices, if available, at the date of grant. In the absence of market prices, the fair value of the instruments at the date of grant is estimated using an appropriate valuation technique, such as a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The determination of fair values excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, which are included in the assumptions used to estimate the number of options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, this estimate is reassessed and if necessary revised. Any revision of the original estimate is recognised in the income statement over the remaining vesting period, together with a corresponding adjustment to equity. (Q) TAXATION Current income tax which is payable on taxable profits is recognised as an expense in the period in which the profits arise. For the Group’s long-term assurance businesses, the tax charge is analysed between tax that is payable in respect of policyholders’ returns and tax that is payable on equity holders’ returns. This allocation is based on an assessment of the rates of tax which will be applied to the returns under current UK tax rules. Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Income tax payable on profits is recognised as an expense in the period in which those profits arise. The tax effects of losses available for carry forward are recognised as an asset when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised. Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedges, which are charged or credited directly to equity, is also credited or charged directly to equity and is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the deferred gain or loss. Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both a legal right of offset and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. (R) INSURANCE The Group undertakes both life assurance and general insurance business. For accounting purposes the life assurance business issues three types of contract: Insurance contracts – these contracts contain significant insurance risk, which the Group defines as the possibility of having to pay benefits on the occurrence of an insured event which are significantly more than the benefits payable if the insured event were not to occur. Investment contracts containing a discretionary participation feature – these contracts do not contain significant insurance risk, but contain features which entitle the holder to receive, in addition to the guaranteed benefits, further amounts that are likely to be a significant proportion of the total benefits and the amount and timing of which is at the discretion of the Group and based upon the performance of specified assets. Contracts with a discretionary participation feature are referred to as participating investment contracts. Non-participating investment contracts – these contracts do not contain significant insurance risk or a discretionary participation feature. For accounting purposes the general insurance business only issues insurance contracts. F-14 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued (1) LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESS (I) ACCOUNTING FOR INSURANCE AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS PREMIUMS AND CLAIMS Premiums received in respect of insurance and participating investment contracts are recognised as revenue when due, except as detailed below in respect of unit-linked contracts. Claims are recorded as an expense when they are incurred. LIABILITIES – Insurance or participating investment contracts in the Group’s With Profit Fund Liabilities of the Group’s With Profit Fund, including guarantees and options embedded within products written by that fund, are stated at their realistic values in accordance with the Financial Services Authority’s realistic capital regime, except that projected transfers out of the fund into other Group funds are not treated as liabilities. Further details on the realistic capital regime are given on page 75. – Insurance or participating investment contracts which are not unit-linked or in the Group’s With Profit Fund A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised. The liability is calculated by estimating the future cash flows over the duration of in-force policies and discounting them back to the valuation date allowing for probabilities of occurrence. The liability will vary with movements in interest rates and with the cost of life assurance and annuity benefits where future mortality is uncertain. Assumptions are made in respect of all material factors affecting future cash flows, including future interest rates, mortality and costs. – Insurance or participating investment contracts which are unit-linked Allocated premiums in respect of unit-linked contracts that are either insurance or participating investment contracts are recognised as liabilities. These liabilities are increased or reduced by the change in the unit prices and are reduced by policy administration fees, mortality and surrender charges and any withdrawals. The mortality charges deducted in each period from the policyholders as a group are considered adequate to cover the expected total death benefit claims in excess of the contract account balances in each period and hence no additional liability is established for these claims. Revenue consists of fees deducted for mortality, policy administration and surrender charges. Interest or changes in the unit prices credited to the account balances and excess benefit claims in excess of the account balances incurred in the period are charged as expenses in the income statement. UNALLOCATED SURPLUS Any amounts in the With Profit Fund not yet determined as being due to policyholders are recognised as an unallocated surplus which is shown separately from other liabilities. VALUE OF IN-FORCE BUSINESS The Group recognises as an asset the value of in-force business in respect of life insurance and participating investment contracts. The asset represents the present value of the shareholders’ interest in the profits expected to emerge from those contracts written at the balance sheet date. This is determined after making appropriate assumptions about future economic conditions and other matters such as future mortality and persistency rates and includes allowances for both non-market risk and for the realistic value of financial options and guarantees. Each cash flow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets. The asset in the consolidated balance sheet is presented gross of attributable tax and movements in the asset are reflected within other operating income in the income statement. (II) ACCOUNTING FOR NON-PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS All of the Group’s non-participating investment contracts are unit-linked. These contracts are accounted for as financial liabilities whose value is contractually linked to the fair values of financial assets within the Group’s unitised investment funds. The value of the unit-linked financial liabilities is determined using current unit prices multiplied by the number of units attributed to the contract holders at the balance sheet date. Their value is never less than the amount payable on surrender, discounted for the required notice period where applicable. Deposits and withdrawals are accounted for directly in the balance sheet as adjustments to the liability. The Group receives investment management fees in respect of services rendered in conjunction with the issue and management of investment contracts where the Group actively manages the consideration received from its customers to fund a return that is based on the investment profile that the customer selected on origination of the instrument. These services comprise an indeterminate number of acts over the lives of the individual contracts and, therefore, the Group defers these fees and recognises them on a straight-line basis over the estimated lives of the contracts. Directly incremental commissions that vary with and are related to either securing new or renewing existing non-participating investment contracts are deferred; all other costs are recognised as expenses when incurred. This asset is subsequently amortised over the period of the provision of investment management services and is reviewed for impairment in circumstances where its carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the asset is greater than its recoverable amount it is written down immediately through expenses in the income statement. F-15 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued (2) GENERAL INSURANCE BUSINESS The Group both underwrites and acts as intermediary in the sale of general insurance products. Underwriting premiums are included, net of refunds, in the period in which insurance cover is provided to the customer; premiums received relating to future periods are deferred and only credited to the income statement when earned. Broking commission is recognised when the underwriter accepts the risk of providing insurance cover to the customer. Where appropriate, provision is made for the effect of future policy terminations based upon past experience. The underwriting business makes provision for the estimated cost of claims notified but not settled and claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date. The provision for the cost of claims notified but not settled is based upon a best estimate of the cost of settling the outstanding claims after taking into account all known facts. In those cases where there is insufficient information to determine the required provision, statistical techniques are used which take into account the cost of claims that have recently been settled and make assumptions about the future development of the outstanding cases. Similar statistical techniques are used to determine the provision for claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date. Claims liabilities are not discounted. (3) LIABILITY ADEQUACY TEST At each balance sheet date liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of insurance and participating investment contract liabilities net of related deferred tax assets and acquired value of in-force business. In performing these tests current best estimates of discounted future contractual cash flows and claims handling and administration expenses, as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities, are used. Any deficiency is immediately charged to profit or loss by establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests. (4) REINSURANCE Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers under which the Group is compensated for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Group and that meet the classification requirements for insurance contracts are classified as reinsurance contracts held. Insurance contracts entered into by the Group under which the contract holder is another insurer (inwards reinsurance) are included with insurance contracts. The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets. These assets consist of short-term balances due from reinsurers as well as longer term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related reinsured insurance contracts. Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the amounts associated with the reinsured insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract and are regularly reviewed for impairment. Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts and are recognised as an expense when due. (S) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Company’s functional currency. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow or net investment hedges. Non-monetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. Translation differences on equities and similar non-monetary items measured at fair value are recognised in profit or loss, except for differences on available-for-sale non-monetary financial assets such as equity shares, which are included in the fair value reserve in equity unless the asset is a hedged item in a fair value hedge. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity, are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognised directly in equity and included in profit or loss on its disposal. (T) PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised in respect of present obligations arising from past events where it is probable that outflows of resources will be required to settle the obligations and they can be reliably estimated. The Group recognises provisions in respect of vacant leasehold property where the unavoidable costs of the present obligations exceed anticipated rental income. Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence depends on the outcome of uncertain future events or those present obligations where the outflows of resources are uncertain or cannot be measured reliably. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless they are remote. (U) DIVIDENDS Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are paid. (V) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and non-mandatory balances with central banks and amounts due from banks with a maturity of less than three months. F-16 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based upon amounts which differ from those estimates. Estimates, judgements and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. The accounting policies deemed critical to the Group’s results and financial position, based upon materiality and significant judgements and estimates, are discussed below. IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS LOAN IMPAIRMENT ALLOWANCES The Group regularly reviews its loan portfolios to assess for impairment. Impairment allowances are established to recognise incurred impairment losses in its loan portfolios carried at amortised cost. In determining whether an impairment has occurred at the balance sheet date the Group considers whether there is any observable data indicating that there has been a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows or their timings; such observable data includes information as to whether there has been an adverse change in the payment status of borrowers or changes in economic conditions that correlate with defaults on loan repayment obligations. Where this is the case, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying value of the loan and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate. At 31 December 2008 gross loans and advances to customers and banks totalled £287,220 million (2007: £247,067 million) against which impairment allowances of £3,727 million (2007: £2,408 million) had been made. There are two components of the Group’s loan impairment allowances: individual and collective. All impaired loans which exceed a certain threshold, principally within the Group’s corporate banking business, are individually assessed for impairment having regard to expected future cash flows including those that could arise from the realisation of security. The determination of these allowances often requires the exercise of considerable judgement by management involving matters such as local economic conditions and the resulting trading performance of the customer and the value of the security held, for which there may not be a readily accessible market. The actual amount of the future cash flows and their timing may differ significantly from the assumptions made for the purposes of determining the impairment allowances and consequently these allowances can be subject to variation as time progresses and the circumstances of the customer become clearer. Impairment allowances for portfolios of smaller balance homogenous loans, such as residential mortgages, personal loans and credit card balances that are below the individual assessment thresholds, and for loan losses that have been incurred but not separately identified at the balance sheet date, are determined on a collective basis. Collective impairment allowances are calculated on a portfolio basis using formulae which take into account factors such as the length of time that the customer’s account has been out of order, historical loss rates, the credit quality of the portfolios and the value of any security held, which is estimated, where appropriate, using indices such as house price indices. The variables used in the formulae are kept under regular review to ensure that as far as possible they reflect current economic circumstances; however changes in interest rates, unemployment levels and bankruptcy trends, particularly in the UK, could result in actual losses differing from reported impairment allowances. Assumptions used in calculating provisions for loan impairment have been updated to reflect market conditions, including those in respect of house price inflation, forced sale discount and probability of borrower default. If average house prices were 12.5 per cent lower than those in place as at 31 December 2008, the house price index related impact on the impairment charge would be an increase of approximately £85 million. IMPAIRMENT OF AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS In determining whether an impairment loss has been incurred in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset, the Group performs an objective review of the current financial circumstances and future prospects of the issuer and, in the case of equity shares, considers whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of that asset below its cost. This consideration requires management judgement. Among factors considered by the Group is whether the decline in fair value is a result of a change in the quality of the asset or a downward movement in the market as a whole. An assessment is performed of the future cash flows expected to be realised from the asset, taking into account, where appropriate, the quality of underlying security and credit protection available. The reduction in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets during the year was £2,721 million (2007: £483 million). Impairment losses in respect of available-for-sale financial assets transferred from reserves to the income statement totalled £130 million (2007: £70 million; 2006: nil). VALUATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Trading securities, other financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, derivatives and available-for-sale financial assets are stated at fair value. The fair value of these financial instruments is the amount for which an instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The fair values of financial instruments are determined by reference to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets where these are available. Where market prices are not available or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, fair values are determined using valuation techniques which, to the extent possible, use market observable inputs. Valuation techniques used include discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models and, where appropriate, comparison to similar instruments. The Group uses widely recognised valuation models for determining the fair value of common and less complex financial instruments that use only observable market data. Observable prices and model inputs are usually available in the market for listed debt and equity securities, exchange traded derivatives and simple over-the-counter derivatives like interest rate swaps. Availability of observable market prices and model inputs reduces the need for management judgement and estimation and any uncertainty associated with determination of fair values. Availability of that observable information depends on the products and markets and is prone to changes based on specific events and general conditions in the financial markets. F-17 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS continued Financial markets in certain financial instruments such as asset backed securities (ABS) and secondary loans, which were previously active and had been valued using market observable inputs in previous years, became inactive during 2008. The fair values of those assets are determined predominantly from lead manager quotes and, where these are not available, by alternative techniques including reference to credit spreads on similar assets with the same obligor, market standard consensus pricing services, broker quotes and other research data. For interest rate and foreign exchange option products and more complex option products, some or all of the inputs into the Group’s valuation models may not be observable in the market and are derived from market prices or rates or are estimated based on market standard consensus data. The process of calculating the fair value of these instruments may necessitate the estimation of certain pricing parameters, assumptions or model characteristics. Management judgement and estimation are usually required when determining such matters as the expected cash flows on the financial instruments being valued, the probability of counterparty default, prepayment assumptions, and selection of appropriate discount rates. The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are disclosed within note 49 on pages F-82 to F-84 together with an indication of the valuation technique used for each major asset or liability category, the inputs into valuation models that have the potential to significantly impact the value determined, the assumptions, if any, used for those inputs and the effects of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions or, in the case of ABS within available-for-sale financial assets, a shift in credit spreads. PENSIONS The net liability recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2008 in respect of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations was £1,771 million (2007: £2,144 million) of which £1,657 million (2007: £2,033 million) related to defined benefit pension schemes. This liability excludes actuarial losses of £267 million (2007: gains of £1,350 million) which the Group is permitted to leave unrecognised. The defined benefit pension schemes’ gross deficit totalled £1,924 million (2007: £683 million) representing the difference between the schemes’ liabilities and the fair value of the related assets at the balance sheet date. The schemes’ liabilities are calculated using the projected unit credit method, which takes into account projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the scheme liabilities. The resulting estimated cash flows are discounted at a rate equivalent to the market yield at the balance sheet date on high quality bonds with a similar duration and currency to the schemes’ liabilities. In order to estimate the future cash flows, a number of financial and non-financial assumptions are made by management, changes to which could have a material impact upon the overall deficit or the net cost recognised in the income statement. Two important assumptions are the rate of inflation and the expected lifetime of the schemes’ members. The assumed rate of inflation affects the rate at which salaries are projected to grow and therefore the size of the pension that employees receive upon retirement and also the rate at which pensions in payment increase. Over the longer term rates of inflation can vary significantly; at 31 December 2008 it was assumed that the rate of inflation would be 3.0 per cent per annum (2007: 3.3 per cent), although if this was increased by 0.2 per cent the overall deficit would increase by approximately £451 million and the annual cost by approximately £17 million. A reduction of 0.2 per cent would reduce the overall deficit by approximately £437 million and the annual cost by approximately £16 million. The cost of the benefits payable by the schemes will also depend upon the longevity of the members. Assumptions are made regarding the expected lifetime of scheme members based upon recent experience, however given the rate of advance in medical science and increasing levels of obesity, it is uncertain whether they will ultimately reflect actual experience. An increase of one year in the expected lifetime of scheme members would increase the overall deficit by approximately £318 million and the annual cost by approximately £22 million; a reduction of one year would reduce the overall deficit by approximately £323 million and the annual cost by approximately £24 million. The size of the overall deficit is also sensitive to changes in the discount rate, which is affected by market conditions and therefore potentially subject to significant variations. At 31 December 2008 the discount rate used was 6.3 per cent (2007: 5.8 per cent); a reduction of 0.2 per cent would increase the overall deficit by approximately £469 million and the annual cost by approximately £7 million, while an increase of 0.2 per cent would reduce the net deficit by approximately £393 million and the annual cost by approximately £9 million. GOODWILL At 31 December 2008 the Group carried goodwill on its balance sheet totalling £2,256 million (2007: £2,358 million), substantially all of which relates to acquisitions made a number of years ago. The Group reviews the goodwill for impairment at least annually or when events or changes in economic circumstances indicate that impairment may have taken place. The impairment review is performed by projecting future cash flows, excluding finance and tax, based upon budgets and plans and making appropriate assumptions about rates of growth and discounting these using a rate that takes into account prevailing market interest rates and the risks inherent in the business. If the present value of the projected cash flows is less than the carrying value of the underlying net assets and related goodwill an impairment charge is required in the income statement. This calculation requires the exercise of significant judgement by management; if the estimates made prove to be incorrect or performance does not meet expectations which affects the amount and timing of future cash flows, goodwill may become impaired in future periods. Further details are given in note 23. F-18 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS continued INSURANCE LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESS The Group carries in its balance sheet an asset representing the value of in-force business in respect of life insurance and participating investment contracts of £1,893 million at 31 December 2008 (2007: £2,218 million). This asset, which is presented gross of attributable tax, represents the present value of future profits expected to arise from the portfolio of in-force life insurance and participating investment contracts. This is determined after making appropriate assumptions about future economic conditions and other matters such as future mortality and persistency rates and includes allowances for both non-market risk and for the realistic value of financial options and guarantees. Each cash flow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets. The valuation of the Group’s annuity business has been affected by the recent upheaval in the capital markets which has caused a significant widening in corporate bond spreads. Based on available market analysis, an element of this widening in corporate bond spreads has been assessed as arising from an increase in the illiquidity premium. Annuity contracts cannot be surrendered and have reasonably certain cash flows best matched by assets of equivalent maturity with similar liquidity characteristics. As a result, in 2008 the value of in-force business asset for annuity business has been calculated after taking into account an estimate of the market premium for illiquidity derived from market and other published sources using a portfolio of investment grade bonds with similar cash flow characteristics as the annuity liabilities. The effect of this has been to increase the value of in-force business by £842 million as at 31 December 2008 with a similar increase in profit before tax disclosed within other operating income. It is not practicable to estimate the effect of this change on the results of future periods. The assumptions made to derive the discount rates and cash flows are inherently uncertain and changes could significantly affect the value attributed. The process for determining key assumptions that have been made at 31 December 2008 is detailed in notes 24 and 32. At 31 December 2008 the Group also carried substantial liabilities to holders of life, pensions and investment contracts in its balance sheet. The methodology used to value the liabilities is described in note 2 (R) (1). Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts were £21,518 million and £11,619 million respectively (2007: £22,526 million and £14,874 million) and those arising from non-participating investment contracts totalled £14,243 million (2007: £18,197 million). Elements of the liabilities require assumptions about future investment returns, future mortality rates and future policyholder behaviour. The impact on profit before tax of changes in key assumptions is detailed in note 33. GENERAL INSURANCE BUSINESS At 31 December 2008 the Group held a provision of £183 million (2007: £207 million) in respect of the estimated cost of claims notified but not settled and claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date. The provision for the cost of claims notified but not settled is based upon a best estimate of the cost of settling the outstanding claims after taking into account all known facts. In those cases where there is insufficient information to determine the required provision, statistical techniques are used which take into account the cost of claims that have recently been settled and make assumptions about the future development of the outstanding cases. Similar statistical techniques are used to determine the provision for claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date. While management believes that the liability carried at year end is adequate, the application of statistical techniques requires significant judgement. An increase of 10 per cent in the cost of claims would result in the recognition of an additional loss of approximately £18 million. Similarly, an increase of 10 per cent in the ultimate number of such claims would lead to an additional loss of approximately £18 million; some relief would arise from reinsurance contracts held. TAXATION At 31 December 2008 the Group had a current tax asset of £300 million and a deferred tax asset of £833 million (2007: a current tax liability of £484 million and a deferred tax liability of £948 million). During 2008, the Group’s net tax position has shifted from a liability of £1,432 million at 31 December 2007 to an asset of £1,133 million at 31 December 2008. While the Group has taken account of tax issues that are subject to ongoing discussion with HM Revenue & Customs and other tax authorities in recognising these assets a significant feature is the management judgement in determining the timing, forecasting and probability of them reversing. This involved a detailed review of profit and loss numbers for 2007 and 2008 to ensure any carry forward positions were optimised at 31 December 2008. The outcome of this exercise has been mapped into 2009 profit and loss estimates and beyond and supports the above assets. Inherent in this exercise has been management’s assessment of legal and professional advice, case law and other relevant guidance. The various risks are categorised and appropriate weightings applied in arriving at the numbers. Where the expected tax outcome of these tax risks is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax numbers in the period in which such determination is made. F-19 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS The Group is a leading financial services group, whose businesses provide a wide range of banking and financial services predominantly in the UK. At 31 December 2008 the Group’s activities were organised into three segments: UK Retail Banking, Insurance and Investments and Wholesale and International Banking. Services provided by UK Retail Banking encompass the provision of banking and other financial services to personal customers, private banking and mortgages. Insurance and Investments offers life assurance, pensions and savings products, general insurance and asset management services. Wholesale and International Banking provides banking and related services for major UK and multinational companies, banks and financial institutions, and small and medium-sized UK businesses. It also provides asset finance to personal and corporate customers, manages the Group’s activities in financial markets through its treasury function and provides banking and financial services in some overseas locations. Under the Group’s transfer pricing arrangements, inter-segment services are generally recharged at cost, with the exception of the internal commission arrangements between the UK branch and other distribution networks and the insurance product manufacturing businesses within the Group, where a profit margin is also charged. Inter-segment lending and deposits are generally entered into at market rates, except that non-interest bearing balances are priced at a rate that reflects the external yield that could be earned on such funds. For those derivative contracts entered into by business units for risk management purposes, the business unit retains the amount that would have been recognised on an accrual accounting basis (an amount equal to the interest element of the next payment on the swap) and transfers the remainder of the fair value of the swap to the central group segment where the resulting accounting volatility is managed though the establishment of hedge accounting relationships. Any change in fair value of the hedged instrument attributable to the hedged risk is also recorded within the central group segment. This allocation of the fair value of the swap and change in fair value of the hedged instrument attributable to the hedged risk avoids accounting asymmetry in segmental results, records volatility where it is managed and provides a fair presentation of the segments’ operating performance. It is the basis on which the segments are managed and measured internally and is the basis of the Group’s internal segmental reporting to the board. As part of its transition to Basel II on 1 January 2008, the Group has updated its capital and liquidity pricing methodology. The main difference in this approach is to allocate a greater share of certain funding costs, previously allocated to the Central group items segment, to individual divisions. To enable a meaningful period-on-period comparison, the segmental analysis for the year ended 31 December 2007 has been restated to reflect these changes. UK Retail Banking £m General insurance £m Life, pensions and asset management £m Insurance and Investments £m Wholesale and International Banking £m Central group items £m Inter-segment eliminations £m Total £m Year ended 31 December 2008 Interest and similar income 9,437 25 1,048 1,073 10,561 1,742 (5,244 ) 17,569 Interest and similar expense (5,327 ) (19 ) (456 ) (475 ) (7,258 ) (2,035 ) 5,244 (9,851 ) Net interest income 4,110 6 592 598 3,303 (293 ) — 7,718 Other income (net of fee and commission expense) 1,766 579 (3,680 ) (3,101 ) 829 (199 ) — (705 ) Total income 5,876 585 (3,088 ) (2,503 ) 4,132 (492 ) — 7,013 Insurance claims — (193 ) 3,052 2,859 — — — 2,859 Total income, net of insurance claims 5,876 392 (36 ) 356 4,132 (492 ) — 9,872 Operating expenses (2,730 ) (161 ) (502 ) (663 ) (2,630 ) (30 ) — (6,053 ) Trading surplus (deficit) 3,146 231 (538 ) (307 ) 1,502 (522 ) — 3,819 Impairment (1,472 ) — (2 ) (2 ) (1,508 ) (30 ) — (3,012 ) Profit (loss) before tax 1,674 231 (540 ) (309 ) (6 ) (552 ) — 807 External revenue 9,804 1,176 (2,130 ) (954 ) 7,679 1,029 — 17,558 Inter-segment revenue 1,002 65 120 185 2,395 1,152 (4,734 ) — Segment revenue 10,806 1,241 (2,010 ) (769 ) 10,074 2,181 (4,734 ) 17,558 External assets 127,502 1,123 65,426 66,549 238,832 3,150 — 436,033 Inter-segment assets 5,679 564 2,779 3,343 143,842 98,190 (251,054 ) — Total assets 133,181 1,687 68,205 69,892 382,674 101,340 (251,054 ) 436,033 External liabilities 97,929 904 56,509 57,413 249,149 21,843 — 426,334 Inter-segment liabilities 31,361 74 7,088 7,162 128,681 83,850 (251,054 ) — Total liabilities 129,290 978 63,597 64,575 377,830 105,693 (251,054 ) 426,334 Other segment items: Capital expenditure 167 9 227 236 837 196 — 1, 436 Depreciation and amortisation 215 16 34 50 421 — — 686 Movement in value of in-force business — — (325 ) (325 ) — — — (325 ) Impairment of goodwill — — — — 100 — — 100 Defined benefit scheme charges 103 2 19 21 85 (45 ) — 164 F-20 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued UK Retail Banking £m General insurance £m Life, pensions and asset management £m Insurance and Investments £m Wholesale and International Banking £m Central group items £m Inter-segment eliminations £m Total £m Year ended 31 December 2007 Interest and similar income 7,964 23 1,040 1,063 9,762 1,386 (3,301 ) 16,874 Interest and similar expense (4,269 ) (18 ) (682 ) (700 ) (7,353 ) (1,754 ) 3,301 (10,775 ) Net interest income 3,695 5 358 363 2,409 (368 ) — 6,099 Other income (net of fee and commission expense) 1,797 554 7,643 8,197 1,773 362 — 12,129 Total income 5,492 559 8,001 8,560 4,182 (6 ) — 18,228 Insurance claims — (302 ) (7,220 ) (7,522 ) — — — (7,522 ) Total income, net of insurance claims 5,492 257 781 1,038 4,182 (6 ) — 10,706 Operating expenses (2,624 ) (154 ) (501 ) (655 ) (2,282 ) (6 ) — (5,567 ) Trading surplus (deficit) 2,868 103 280 383 1,900 (12 ) — 5,139 Impairment (1,224 ) — — — (572 ) — — (1,796 ) Profit on sale of businesses — — 272 272 385 — — 657 Profit (loss) before tax 1,644 103 552 655 1,713 (12 ) — 4,000 External revenue 9,132 1,235 8,854 10,089 10,082 300 — 29,603 Inter-segment revenue 958 49 181 230 1,487 1,591 (4,266 ) — Segment revenue 10,090 1,284 9,035 10,319 11,569 1,891 (4,266 ) 29,603 External assets 115,012 1,164 72,213 73,377 163,294 1,663 — 353,346 Inter-segment assets 5,093 361 3,777 4,138 91,246 64,654 (165,131 ) — Total assets 120,105 1,525 75,990 77,515 254,540 66,317 (165,131 ) 353,346 External liabilities 96,166 870 65,304 66,174 162,376 16,205 — 340,921 Inter-segment liabilities 20,321 12 5,930 5,942 86,159 52,709 (165,131 ) — Total liabilities 116,487 882 71,234 72,116 248,535 68,914 (165,131 ) 340,921 Other segment items: Capital expenditure 80 11 452 463 613 178 — 1,334 Depreciation and amortisation 205 14 37 51 374 — — 630 Movement in value of in-force business — — (93 ) (93 ) — — — (93 ) Defined benefit scheme charges 114 3 26 29 92 (60 ) — 175 F-21 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued UK Retail Banking £m General insurance £m Life, pensions and asset management £m Insurance and Investments £m Wholesale and International Banking £m Central group items £m Inter-segment eliminations £m Total £m Year ended 31 December 2006 Interest and similar income 6,921 32 932 964 8,608 1,341 (3,726 ) 14,108 Interest and similar expense (3,299 ) (2 ) (1,048 ) (1,050 ) (6,459 ) (1,697 ) 3,726 (8,779 ) Net interest income 3,622 30 (116 ) (86 ) 2,149 (356 ) — 5,329 Other income (net of fee and commission expense) 1,621 594 9,893 10,487 2,035 201 — 14,344 Total income 5,243 624 9,777 10,401 4,184 (155 ) — 19,673 Insurance claims — (200 ) (8,369 ) (8,569 ) — — — (8,569 ) Total income, net of insurance claims 5,243 424 1,408 1,832 4,184 (155 ) — 11,104 Operating expenses (2,476 ) (157 ) (481 ) (638 ) (2,264 ) 77 — (5,301 ) Trading surplus (deficit) 2,767 267 927 1,194 1,920 (78 ) — 5,803 Impairment (1,238 ) — — — (308 ) (9 ) — (1,555 ) Profit (loss) before tax 1,529 267 927 1,194 1,612 (87 ) — 4,248 External revenue 8,136 1,249 10,888 12,137 8,659 158 — 29,090 Inter-segment revenue 706 27 311 338 2,286 1,257 (4,587 ) — Segment revenue 8,842 1,276 11,199 12,475 10,945 1,415 (4,587 ) 29,090 External assets 108,381 1,115 84,959 86,074 147,836 1,307 — 343,598 Inter-segment assets 3,331 502 4,050 4,552 80,995 53,588 (142,466 ) — Total assets 111,712 1,617 89,009 90,626 228,831 54,895 (142,466 ) 343,598 External liabilities 87,327 875 77,633 78,508 150,779 15,477 — 332,091 Inter-segment liabilities 20,980 54 5,595 5,649 72,793 43,044 (142,466 ) — Total liabilities 108,307 929 83,228 84,157 223,572 58,521 (142,466 ) 332,091 Other segment items: Capital expenditure 82 7 845 852 647 143 — 1,724 Depreciation and amortisation 202 9 29 38 379 — — 619 Movement in value of in-force business — — (199 ) (199 ) — — — (199 ) Defined benefit scheme charges 121 4 24 28 100 (140 ) — 109 As the activities of the Group are predominantly carried out in the UK, no geographical analysis is presented. F-22 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 NET INTEREST INCOME Weighted average effective interest rate 2008 % 2007 % 2006 % 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Interest receivable: Loans and advances to customers 6.31 6.89 6.21 13,855 13,209 10,853 Loans and advances to banks 4.63 5.14 4.72 1,861 2,025 1,826 Lease and hire purchase receivables 7.62 6.34 5.97 706 602 622 Interest receivable on loans and receivables 6.11 6.58 5.94 16,422 15,836 13,301 Available-for-sale financial assets 4.58 4.83 4.39 1,147 1,038 807 Total interest receivable 5.98 6.44 5.82 17,569 16,874 14,108 Interest payable: Deposits from banks 3.65 5.00 4.67 (1,540 ) (1,919 ) (1,680 ) Customer accounts 3.27 3.58 2.91 (4,932 ) (5,085 ) (3,738 ) Debt securities in issue 4.10 5.08 4.67 (2,227 ) (2,680 ) (1,983 ) Subordinated liabilities 5.82 5.65 5.72 (896 ) (741 ) (694 ) Liabilities under sale and repurchase agreements 4.45 4.81 4.35 (256 ) (155 ) (260 ) Interest payable on liabilities held at amortised cost 3.67 4.24 3.71 (9,851 ) (10,580 ) (8,355 ) Other — 4.28 9.68 — (195 ) (424 ) Total interest payable 3.61 4.24 3.82 (9,851 ) (10,775 ) (8,779 ) Net interest income 7,718 6,099 5,329 Included within interest receivable is £435 million (2007: £395 million; 2006: £297 million) in respect of impaired financial assets. Net interest income also includes a charge of £16 million (2007: credit of £1 million; 2006: charge of £1 million) transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve (see note 43). 6 NET FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Fee and commission income: Current accounts 707 693 652 Insurance broking 549 648 629 Credit and debit card fees 581 536 493 Trust and other fiduciary fees 413 362 331 Other 981 985 1,011 3,231 3,224 3,116 Fee and commission expense (694 ) (600 ) (638 ) Net fee and commission income 2,537 2,624 2,478 As discussed in note 2(D), fees and commissions which are an integral part of the effective interest rate form part of net interest income shown in note 5. Fees and commissions relating to instruments that are held at fair value through profit or loss are included within net trading income shown in note 7. F-23 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 NET TRADING INCOME 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Foreign exchange translation gains 66 34 32 Gains on foreign exchange trading transactions 75 159 98 Total foreign exchange 141 193 130 Investment property losses (note 22) (1,058 ) (321 ) 631 Securities and other (losses) gains (8,269 ) 3,251 5,580 Net trading income (9,186 ) 3,123 6,341 Securities and other (losses) gains comprise net gains arising on assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss and for trading as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Net income (expense) arising on assets held at fair value through profit or loss: Loans and advances to banks and customers 20 23 29 Debt securities 918 673 1,181 Equity shares (7,759 ) 2,422 4,046 Total net (expense) income arising on assets held at fair value through profit or loss (6,821 ) 3,118 5,256 Net expense arising on liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss – debt securities in issue (232 ) (153 ) 21 Total net (losses) gains arising on assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss (7,053 ) 2,965 5,277 Net (losses) gains on financial instruments held for trading (1,216 ) 286 303 Securities and other (losses) gains (8,269 ) 3,251 5,580 F-24 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 INSURANCE PREMIUM INCOME 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Life insurance Gross premiums 4,841 4,937 4,308 Ceded reinsurance premiums (41 ) (98 ) (189 ) Net earned premiums 4,800 4,839 4,119 Non-life insurance Gross premiums written 651 632 608 Ceded reinsurance premiums (23 ) (23 ) (17 ) Net premiums 628 609 591 Change in provision for unearned premiums (16 ) (18 ) 9 Net earned premiums 612 591 600 Total net earned premiums 5,412 5,430 4,719 Life insurance gross written premiums can be further analysed as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Life and pensions 4,182 4,233 3,611 Annuities 645 689 681 Other 14 15 16 Gross premiums 4,841 4,937 4,308 Non-life insurance gross written premiums can be further analysed as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Credit protection 203 212 203 Home 441 412 394 Health 7 8 11 651 632 608 9 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Operating lease rental income 392 393 422 Rental income from investment property (note 22) 209 227 313 Other rents receivable 32 31 28 Gains less losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (note 43) 19 5 22 Movement in value of in-force business (note 24) (325 ) (93 ) (199 ) Car dealership income — 49 60 Other income 205 340 160 532 952 806 F-25 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 INSURANCE CLAIMS Insurance claims comprise: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Life insurance and participating investment contracts Claims and surrenders: Gross (4,710 ) (5,432 ) (5,375 ) Reinsurers’ share 65 73 76 (4,645 ) (5,359 ) (5,299 ) Change in liabilities: Gross 7,364 (1,955 ) (2,923 ) Reinsurers’ share 49 (20 ) 18 7,413 (1,975 ) (2,905 ) Change in unallocated surplus (note 35) 284 114 (165 ) Total life insurance and participating investment contracts 3,052 (7,220 ) (8,369 ) Non-life insurance Claims and claims paid: Gross (219 ) (250 ) (198 ) Reinsurers’ share 7 — — (212 ) (250 ) (198 ) Change in liabilities: Gross 24 (58 ) (2 ) Reinsurers’ share (5 ) 6 — 19 (52 ) (2 ) Total non-life insurance (193 ) (302 ) (200 ) Total insurance claims credit (expense) 2,859 (7,522 ) (8,569 ) Life insurance gross claims can also be analysed as follows: Deaths (289 ) (296 ) (286 ) Maturities (1,888 ) (1,516 ) (1,385 ) Surrenders (1,960 ) (2,994 ) (3,081 ) Annuities (516 ) (568 ) (558 ) Other (57 ) (58 ) (65 ) (4,710 ) (5,432 ) (5,375 ) A non-life insurance claims development table is included in note 32. F-26 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 OPERATING EXPENSES 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Salaries 2,183 2,127 2,117 Social security costs 176 167 161 Pensions and other post-retirement benefit schemes (note 37) 235 238 165 Other staff costs 337 372 298 Staff costs 2,931 2,904 2,741 Other administrative expenses: Operating lease rentals 265 250 254 Repairs and maintenance 151 154 165 Communications and data processing 455 462 499 Advertising 194 192 184 Professional fees 229 279 231 Provision in respect of certain historic US dollar payments (note 48) 180 — — Provision for Financial Services Compensation Scheme levy (note 48) 122 — — Settlement of overdraft claims — 76 — Other 740 620 608 2,336 2,033 1,941 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets (note 26) 648 594 602 Amortisation of other intangible assets (note 25) 38 36 17 Goodwill impairment charge (note 23) 100 — — Total operating expenses 6,053 5,567 5,301 The average number of persons on a headcount basis employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 2006 UK 64,355 67,616 74,079 Overseas 2,118 1,937 2,013 66,473 69,553 76,092 F-27 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 OPERATING EXPENSES continued 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s current year annual report 7.1 6.8 6.0 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.5 2.5 2.9 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 3.0 2.7 4.7 Total audit fees 12.6 12.0 13.6 Other services – audit related fees 5.3 1.1 1.4 Total audit and audit related fees 17.9 13.1 15.0 Services relating to taxation 0.5 0.7 0.6 Other non-audit fees: Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.4 0.7 1.0 Other services 0.7 0.1 0.4 Total other non-audit fees 1.1 0.8 1.4 Total fees payable to the Company’s auditors by the Group 19.5 14.6 17.0 During the year, the auditors also earned fees payable by entities outside the consolidated Lloyds Banking Group in respect of the following: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Audits of Group pension schemes 0.2 0.2 0.2 Audits of the unconsolidated Open Ended Investment Companies managed by the Group 0.5 0.4 0.4 Reviews of the financial position of corporate and other borrowers 1.4 2.8 1.6 Acquisition due diligence and other work performed in respect of potential venture capital investments 1.0 0.6 1.0 The following types of services are included in the categories listed above: Audit fees: This category includes fees in respect of the audit of the Group’s annual financial statements and other services in connection with regulatory filings. Other services supplied pursuant to legislation relate primarily to the costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit requirements together with the cost of the audit of the Group’s Form 20-F filing. Audit related fees: This category includes fees in respect of services for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the financial statements, for example acting as reporting accountants in respect of prospectuses and circulars required by the UKLA listing rules. Services relating to taxation: This category includes tax compliance and tax advisory services. Other non-audit fees: This category includes due diligence relating to corporate finance, including venture capital transactions and other assurance and advisory services. It is the Group’s policy to use the auditors on assignments in cases where their knowledge of the Group means that it is neither efficient nor cost effective to employ another firm of accountants. Such assignments typically relate to the provision of advice on tax issues, assistance in transactions involving the acquisition and disposal of businesses and accounting advice. The auditors are not permitted to provide management consultancy services to the Group. The Group has procedures that are designed to ensure auditor independence, including that fees for audit and non-audit services are approved in advance. This approval can be obtained either on an individual engagement basis or, for certain types of non-audit services, particularly those of a recurring nature, through the approval of a fee cap covering all engagements of that type provided the fee is below that cap. All statutory audit work as well as non-audit assignments where the fee is expected to exceed the relevant fee cap must be pre-approved by the audit committee on an individual engagement basis. On a quarterly basis, the audit committee receives a report detailing all pre-approved services and amounts paid to the auditors for such pre-approved services. F-28 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 IMPAIRMENT 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Impairment losses on loans and advances (note 20) 2,876 1,721 1,560 Other credit risk provisions (note 39) 6 5 (5 ) 2,882 1,726 1,555 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 130 70 — Total impairment charged to the income statement 3,012 1,796 1,555 13 PROFIT ON SALE OF BUSINESSES 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Profit on sale of Lloyds TSB Registrars — 407 — Profit on sale of Abbey Life — 272 — Other, including adjustments in respect of businesses sold in earlier years — (22 ) — Profit on sale of businesses — 657 — During 2007 the Group completed the sale of the business and assets of Lloyds TSB Bank plc’s company registration business, Lloyds TSB Registrars; the sale of Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited, a UK life operation which had been closed to new business since 2000; and the sale of The Dutton-Forshaw Group Limited, a medium-size car dealership. In addition, provision was made for payments under an indemnity given in relation to a business sold in an earlier year. The businesses sold in 2007 did not represent separate material lines of business and consequently they were not treated as discontinued operations. 14 TAXATION (A) ANALYSIS OF CREDIT (CHARGE) FOR THE YEAR 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m UK corporation tax: Current tax on profit for the year (667 ) (763 ) (1,024 ) Adjustments in respect of prior years (19 ) 30 137 (686 ) (733 ) (887 ) Double taxation relief 91 60 195 (595 ) (673 ) (692 ) Foreign tax: Current tax on profit for the year (144 ) (98 ) (83 ) Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 3 8 (140 ) (95 ) (75 ) Current tax charge (735 ) (768 ) (767 ) Deferred tax (note 38) 773 89 (574 ) Tax credit (charge) 38 (679 ) (1,341 ) As a result of the Finance Act 2007, the statutory rate of corporation tax in the UK was reduced from 30 per cent to 28 per cent with effect from 1 April 2008. Therefore the charge for tax on the profit for the year is based on a UK corporation tax rate of 28.5 per cent (2007: 30 per cent; 2006: 30 per cent). The Group, as a proxy for policyholders in the UK, is required to record taxes on investment income, gains and losses each year. Accordingly, the tax attributable to UK life insurance policyholder earnings is included in income tax expense. The tax credit attributable to policyholders was £471 million (2007: £243 million credit; 2006: £222 million expense), including a prior year tax charge of £4 million (2007: tax charge of £5 million; 2006: tax charge of £12 million). In addition to the income statement current tax charge, a total of £674 million of current tax has been credited to equity (2007: a total of £131 million credit to equity; 2006: a total of £17 million charged to equity); a debit of £1 million (2007: a credit of £3 million; 2006: a credit of £15 million) in respect of share based payments, a credit of £584 million (2007: a credit of £103 million; 2006: a charge of £33 million) in respect of foreign exchange differences and a net credit of £91 million (2007: a net credit of £25 million; 2006: a net credit of £1 million) in respect of the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets. F-29 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 TAXATION continued (B) FACTORS AFFECTING THE TAX CREDIT (CHARGE) FOR THE YEAR A reconciliation of the charge that would result from applying the standard UK corporation tax rate to profit before tax to the tax credit (charge) for the year is given below: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Profit before tax 807 4,000 4,248 Tax charge thereon at UK corporation tax rate of 28.5 per cent (2007: 30 per cent) (230 ) (1,200 ) (1,274 ) Factors affecting charge: Goodwill impairment (28 ) — — Disallowed and non-taxable items 12 (2 ) 8 Overseas tax rate differences (39 ) 4 2 Gains exempted or covered by capital losses 25 274 78 Policyholder interests 337 173 (123 ) UK corporation tax rate change — 110 — Other items (39 ) (38 ) (32 ) Tax on profit on ordinary activities 38 (679 ) (1,341 ) Effective rate (4.7 %) 17.0 % 31.6 % 15 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, which has been calculated after deducting 5 million (2007: 5 million) ordinary shares representing the Group’s holdings of own shares in respect of employee share schemes. 2008 2007 2006 Profit attributable to equity shareholders £819m £3,289m £2,803m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5,742m 5,637m 5,616m Basic earnings per share 14.3p 58.3p 49.9p For the calculation of diluted earnings per share the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Company has dilutive potential ordinary shares in respect of share options and awards granted to employees. The number of shares that could have been acquired at market price (determined as the average annual share price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options and awards is determined; the residual bonus shares are added to the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue, but no adjustment is made to the profit attributable to equity shareholders. 2008 2007 2006 Profit attributable to equity shareholders £819m £3,289m £2,803m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 5,742m 5,637m 5,616m Adjustment for share options and awards 39m 46m 51m Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 5,781m 5,683m 5,667m Diluted earnings per share 14.2p 57.9p 49.5p The weighted average number of anti-dilutive share options and awards excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 59 million at 31 December 2008 (2007: 3 million; 2006: 7 million). As discussed in note 52, the Group issued 2,596,653,203 ordinary shares at 173.3p on 13 January 2009 and issued 7,775,694,993 ordinary shares as purchase consideration for the acquisition of 100 per cent of the ordinary share capital of HBOS plc on 16 January 2009. F-30 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 TRADING AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS 2008 £m 2007 £m Trading assets 857 4,663 Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 44,207 53,248 45,064 57,911 These assets are comprised as follows: 2008 2007 Trading assets £m Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss £m Trading assets £m Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss £m Loans and advances to banks — — 29 1 Loans and advances to customers 283 325 756 403 Debt securities: Government securities 38 7,326 62 4,848 Other public sector securities — 18 — — Bank and building society certificates of deposit — 433 — 811 Mortgage backed securities — 369 87 70 Other asset backed securities — 1,342 122 1,805 Corporate and other debt securities 536 11,120 3,607 13,564 574 20,608 3,878 21,098 Equity shares: Listed — 16,569 — 23,598 Unlisted — 6,705 — 8,148 — 23,274 — 31,746 857 44,207 4,663 53,248 At 31 December 2008 £44,046 million (2007: £55,729 million) of trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss represent the following assets designated into that category: (i) financial assets backing insurance contracts and investment contracts which are so designated because the related liabilities either have cash flows that are contractually based on the performance of the assets or are contracts whose measurement takes account of current market conditions and where significant measurement inconsistencies would otherwise arise; (ii) certain loans and advances to customers which are economically hedged by interest rate derivatives which are not in hedge accounting relationships and where significant measurement inconsistencies would otherwise arise if the related derivatives were treated as trading liabilities and the loans and advances were carried at amortised cost; and (iii) certain private equity investments that are managed, and evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy and reported to key management personnel on that basis. The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2008 of the loans and advances to banks and customers designated at fair value through profit or loss was £325 million (2007: £404 million); the Group does not hold any credit derivatives or other instruments in mitigation of this risk. There was no significant movement in the fair value of these loans attributable to changes in credit risk; this is determined by reference to the publicly available credit ratings of the instruments involved. The carrying value of assets that are subject to stock lending arrangements was £809 million at 31 December 2008 (2007: £1,450 million) all of which the secured party is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge. The Group’s Corporate Markets business has no direct exposure to US sub-prime ABS and limited indirect exposure through asset-backed security collateralised debt obligations (ABS CDOs). During 2008, the market value of Corporate Markets’ holdings in ABS CDOs reduced and, as a result, there has been an income statement charge of £92 million (2007: £114 million). The Group’s Corporate Markets business has no exposure to mezzanine ABS CDOs. In addition, there are £1,867 million (2007: £1,861 million) of ABS CDOs which remain fully cash collateralised by major global financial institutions. F-31 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 TRADING AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS continued At 31 December 2008, the Group’s Corporate Markets business had fair value exposure to one monoline financial guarantor in the form of credit default swap (CDS) protection bought against a £256 million collateralised loan obligation (CLO) (2007: exposure to one monoline against a £198 million CLO and one monoline against a £467 million collateralised debt obligation). The exposure on this CDS was £10 million, following a £28 million adverse credit valuation adjustment. A restructuring of Corporate Markets’ other monoline hedged ABS CDO during 2008 has eliminated any reliance on the financial guarantor and has resulted in a much improved risk profile (AA) on a reduced holding of £128 million, included in loans and advances. Credit valuation adjustments and restructuring costs related to the cancelled CDS in the amount of £275 million were recognised in the income statement. At 31 December 2008, fair values of £956 million (2007: £1,570 million) of the Group’s trading and other financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss, held within the Corporate Markets business, were valued using unobservable inputs. These assets largely represent the Group’s venture capital investments, for which values are determined using valuation techniques which follow British Venture Capital Association (BVCA) guidelines. In respect of these assets, during the year to 31 December 2008, a credit of £111 million (2007: credit of £51 million) was recognised in the income statement relating to the change in their fair values. 17 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The principal derivatives used by the Group are interest rate and exchange rate contracts; particular attention is paid to the liquidity of the markets and products in which the Group trades to ensure that there are no undue concentrations of activity and risk. Interest rate related contracts include interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and options. An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange fixed and floating interest payments, based upon interest rates defined in the contract, without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts. Forward rate agreements are contracts for the payment of the difference between a specified rate of interest and a reference rate, applied to a notional principal amount at a specific date in the future. An interest rate option gives the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right, but not the obligation, to fix the rate of interest on a future loan or deposit, for a specified period and commencing on a specified future date.Exchange rate related contracts include forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and options. A forward foreign exchange contract is an agreement to buy or sell a specified amount of foreign currency on a specified future date at an agreed rate. Currency swaps generally involve the exchange of interest payment obligations denominated in different currencies; the exchange of principal can be notional or actual. A currency option gives the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right, but not the obligation, to sell specified amounts of currency at agreed rates of exchange on or before a specified future date. Credit derivatives, principally credit default swaps, are used by the Group as part of its trading activity and to manage its own exposure to credit risk. A credit default swap is a swap in which one counterparty receives a premium at pre-set intervals in consideration for guaranteeing to make a specific payment should a negative credit event take place. As discussed in note 19, the Group also uses credit default swaps to securitise, in combination with external funding, £8,360 million (2007: £4,325 million) of corporate and commercial banking loans. Equity derivatives are also used by the Group as part of its equity based retail product activity to eliminate the Group’s exposure to fluctuations in various international stock exchange indices. Index-linked equity options are purchased which give the Group the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a specified amount of equities, or basket of equities, in the form of published indices on or before a specified future date. The principal amount of the contract does not represent the Group’s real exposure to credit risk which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group should the counterparty default. To reduce credit risk the Group uses a variety of credit enhancement techniques such as netting and collateralisation, where security is provided against the exposure. Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and options pricing models, as appropriate.At 31 December 2008, £578 million (2007: £14 million) of fair value liabilities were valued using unobservable inputs; a charge of £512 million (2007: charge of £14 million) was recognised in the income statement relating to the change in fair value. The effect of using reasonably possible favourable and adverse valuation assumptions would be to increase or decrease net trading income by up to £80 million respectively. F-32 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Contract/notional amount £m Fair value assets £m Fair value liabilities £m 31 December 2008 Trading Exchange rate contracts: Spot, forwards and futures 157,572 5,788 4,102 Currency swaps 29,463 4,367 1,463 Options purchased 9,185 714 — Options written 10,143 — 743 206,363 10,869 6,308 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 368,176 11,797 12,639 Forward rate agreements 153,930 405 395 Options purchased 37,175 843 — Options written 33,130 — 627 Futures 587 44 3 592,998 13,089 13,664 Credit derivatives 32,495 4,257 2,670 Equity and other contracts 5,447 234 81 Total derivative assets/liabilities held for trading 28,449 22,723 Hedging Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps (including swap options) 37,243 434 1,665 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Interest rate swaps 867 1 91 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Cross currency swaps 6,318 — 2,413 Total derivative assets/liabilities held for hedging 435 4,169 Total recognised derivative assets/liabilities 28,884 26,892 At 31 December 2008 £16,200 million of total recognised derivative assets and £15,215 million of total recognised derivative liabilities (2007: £3,573 million of assets and £4,112 million of liabilities) had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. F-33 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Contract/notional amount £m Fair value assets £m Fair value liabilities £m 31 December 2007 Trading Exchange rate contracts: Spot, forwards and futures 150,450 1,759 1,285 Currency swaps 30,214 803 680 Options purchased 7,609 157 — Options written 6,988 — 149 195,261 2,719 2,114 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 332,361 2,765 3,250 Forward rate agreements 102,274 36 34 Options purchased 33,147 171 — Options written 22,976 — 171 Futures 35,571 1 — 526,329 2,973 3,455 Credit derivatives 63,444 1,838 1,057 Equity and other contracts 4,439 865 156 Total derivative assets/liabilities held for trading 8,395 6,782 Hedging Derivatives designated as fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps (including swap options) 50,734 263 460 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges: Interest rate swaps 630 1 24 Derivatives designated as net investment hedges: Cross currency swaps 5,302 — 316 Total derivative assets/liabilities held for hedging 264 800 Total recognised derivative assets/liabilities 8,659 7,582 18 LOANS AND ADVANCES TO BANKS 2008 £m 2007 £m Lending to banks 5,104 5,892 Money market placements with banks 35,812 28,953 Total loans and advances to banks 40,916 34,845 Allowance for impairment losses (note 20) (158 ) — 40,758 34,845 At 31 December 2008 £5,459 million (2007: £5,773 million) of loans and advances to banks had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. The Group holds collateral with a fair value of £10,739 million (2007: £9,109 million), which it is permitted to sell or repledge, of which £5,492 million (2007: £8,482 million) was repledged or sold to third parties for periods not exceeding three months from the transfer. F-34 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS 2008 £m 2007 £m Agriculture, forestry and fishing 3,969 3,226 Energy and water supply 2,598 2,102 Manufacturing 12,057 8,385 Construction 3,016 2,871 Transport, distribution and hotels 14,664 11,573 Postal and telecommunications 1,060 946 Property companies 23,318 17,576 Financial, business and other services 35,746 29,707 Personal: – Mortgages 114,643 102,739 – Other 25,318 22,988 Lease financing 4,620 4,686 Hire purchase 5,295 5,423 246,304 212,222 Allowance for impairment losses (note 20) (3,569 ) (2,408 ) 242,735 209,814 At 31 December 2008 £180,197 million (2007: £153,302 million) of loans and advances to customers had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. Included in loans and advances to customers are £6,342 million (2007: £4,201 million) held in Cancara, the Group’s hybrid Asset Backed Commercial Paper conduit (see note 21). During 2008 the Group’s Corporate Markets business wrote down the value of its structured investment vehicle (SIV) exposures by £95 million (2007: £22 million) and now has no residual exposure to SIV Capital Notes (2007: exposure of £78 million). Additionally, at 31 December 2008 the Group’s Corporate Markets business had a commercial paper back up liquidity facility totalling £22 million (2007: £370 million). The Group holds collateral with a fair value of £1,736 million (2007: £1,975 million), which it is permitted to sell or repledge, of which £366 million (2007: £1,818 million) was repledged or sold to third parties for periods not exceeding three months from the transfer. Loans and advances to customers include finance lease receivables, which may be analysed as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m Gross investment in finance leases, receivable: Not later than 1 year 542 620 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 1,779 1,917 Later than 5 years 5,639 5,339 7,960 7,876 Unearned future finance income on finance leases (3,038 ) (2,875 ) Rentals received in advance (128 ) (131 ) Commitments for expenditure in respect of equipment to be leased (174 ) (184 ) Net investment in finance leases 4,620 4,686 The net investment in finance leases represents amounts recoverable as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m Not later than 1 year 329 340 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 978 1,004 Later than 5 years 3,313 3,342 4,620 4,686 F-35 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS continued Equipment leased to customers under finance leases primarily relates to structured financing transactions to fund the purchase of aircraft, ships and other large individual value items. During 2008 and 2007 no contingent rentals in respect of finance leases were recognised in the income statement. The allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables included in the allowance for impairment losses is £15 million (2007: £16 million). The unguaranteed residual values included in finance lease receivables were as follows: 2008 2007 £m £m Not later than 1 year 1 — Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 29 7 Later than 5 years 3 11 Total 33 18 SECURITISATIONS Loans and advances to customers include balances that have been securitised but not derecognised, comprising both residential mortgages and commercial banking loans, the carrying values of which are set out below together with any related liabilities. Residential mortgages are not derecognised because the Group remains exposed to the majority of the risk of any default in respect of them; commercial banking loans are not derecognised because the Group has not transferred the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from those loans nor has it assumed a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows from those loans to a third party. Beneficial interests in certain residential mortgages have been transferred to special purpose entities which issue floating rate debt securities. Neither the Group nor any entities in the Group are obliged to support any losses that may be suffered by the note holders and do not intend to offer such support. The floating rate note holders only receive payments of interest and principal to the extent that the special purpose entities have received sufficient funds from the transferred mortgages and after certain expenses have been met. In the event of a deficiency, they have no recourse whatsoever to the Group.At 31 December 2008 the total amount of residential mortgages subject to securitisation was £34,293 million (2007: £46,284 million) in respect of which external funding at the year end amounted to £9,824 million (2007: £12,403 million); external funding is shown in debt securities in issue (see note 31). The Group participates in the securitisation through the provision of administration and other services, the provision of interest rate and currency swaps and in the form of unsecured loan financing which is subordinate to the interests of the floating rate note holders. A further £40,608 million of residential mortgages are subject to securitisation via a covered bond programme; the related bonds have been issued to Lloyds TSB Bank plc, and are available for use in connection with Lloyds TSB Bank plc’s participation in the Bank of England’s Special Liquidity Scheme.In addition the Group has entered into a number of securitisations of elements of its corporate and commercial loan portfolio. The total value of loans so securitised was £8,360 million (2007: £4,325 million), utilising a combination of external funding totalling £226 million (2007: £98 million) and credit default swaps. The external funding is shown in debt securities in issue (see note 31) and the credit default swaps are accounted for as derivatives (see note 17). 20 ALLOWANCE FOR IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON LOANS AND ADVANCES Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to banks £m Retail – mortgages £m Retail – other £m Wholesale £m Total £m Total £m Balance at 1 January 2007 42 1,918 233 2,193 1 2,194 Exchange and other adjustments — — 2 2 — 2 Advances written off (25 ) (1,439 ) (78 ) (1,542 ) — (1,542 ) Recoveries of advances written off in previous years 2 133 2 137 — 137 Unwinding of discount — (101 ) (3 ) (104 ) — (104 ) Charge (credit) to the income statement 18 1,518 186 1,722 (1 ) 1,721 At 31 December 2007 37 2,029 342 2,408 — 2,408 Exchange and other adjustments — — 43 43 — 43 Advances written off (23 ) (1,382 ) (205 ) (1,610 ) — (1,610 ) Recoveries of advances written off in previous years 1 111 — 112 — 112 Unwinding of discount — (100 ) (2 ) (102 ) — (102 ) Charge to the income statement 171 1,687 860 2,718 158 2,876 At 31 December 2008 186 2,345 1,038 3,569 158 3,727 F-36 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 ALLOWANCE FOR IMPAIRMENT LOSSES ON LOANS AND ADVANCES continued The analysis of allowances for impairment between retail and wholesale has been prepared based upon the type of exposure and not the business segment in which the exposure is recorded. Included within retail are exposures to personal customers and small businesses, whilst included within wholesale are exposures to corporate customers and other large institutions. The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment loss are disclosed in note 2(J). All impaired loans which exceed a certain threshold, principally within the Group’s corporate banking business, are individually assessed for impairment having regard to expected future cash flows including those that could arise from the realisation of security. Included in loans and advances to customers and to banks were loans and advances individually determined to be impaired whose gross amount before impairment allowances was £2,699 million (2007: £684 million) and in respect of which collateral with a fair value of £518 million (2007: £193 million) was held. 21 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS 2008 2007 Cancara Other Total Cancara Other Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Debt securities: Government securities — 868 868 — 319 319 Other public sector securities — 12 12 — 5 5 Bank and building society certificates of deposit — 9,602 9,602 — 1,825 1,825 Mortgage backed securities 3,176 1,253 4,429 4,136 1,914 6,050 Other asset backed securities 853 4,103 4,956 1,015 3,056 4,071 Corporate and other debt securities 2,244 4,346 6,590 3,117 3,153 6,270 6,273 20,184 26,457 8,268 10,272 18,540 Equity shares: Listed — 3 3 — 1 1 Unlisted — 38 38 — 28 28 — 41 41 — 29 29 Treasury bills and other bills: Treasury bills and similar securities — 2,402 2,402 — 1,608 1,608 Other bills — 26,807 26,807 — 19 19 — 29,209 29,209 — 1,627 1,627 6,273 49,434 55,707 8,268 11,928 20,196 Cancara is the Group’s hybrid Asset Backed Commercial Paper conduit. Total exposures in Cancara were £12,615 million (31 December 2007: £12,469 million) comprising the £6,273 million (31 December 2007: £8,268 million) of debt securities detailed above and £6,342 million (31 December 2007: £4,201 million) of loans and advances to customers (see note 19). Cancara, which is fully consolidated in the Group’s accounts, is managed in a very conservative manner, which is demonstrated by the quality and ratings stability of its underlying asset portfolio. At 31 December 2008, the asset-backed securities in Cancara were 91.8 and 94.2 per cent (31 December 2007: 100 per cent) Aaa/AAA rated by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s respectively, and there was no exposure either directly or indirectly to sub-prime US mortgages within Cancara’s debt security portfolio. At 31 December 2008 loans and advances included no US sub-prime mortgage exposure (31 December 2007: £115 million). The other asset-backed securities not in the Cancara conduit of £4,103 million (31 December 2007: £3,056 million) comprise £2,917 million (31 December 2007: £2,643 million) of US Government guaranteed student loan asset-backed securities and £1,186 million (31 December 2007: £413 million) of unhedged asset-backed security collateralised debt obligations. At 31 December 2008 £15,627 million (2007: £15,265 million) of available-for-sale financial assets had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. All assets have been individually assessed for impairment. The criteria used to determine whether an impairment loss has been incurred are disclosed in note 2(J). Included in available-for-sale assets at 31 December 2008 are debt securities individually determined to be impaired whose gross amount before impairment allowances was £282 million (2007: £75 million) and in respect of which no collateral was held. In addition, included in available-for-sale assets at 31 December 2008 are equity securities individually determined to be impaired whose gross amount before impairment allowances was £31 million (2007: nil). F-37 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 INVESTMENT PROPERTY 2008 2007 £m £m At 1 January 3,722 4,739 Exchange and other adjustments 66 5 Additions: Acquisitions of new properties 85 302 Additional expenditure on existing properties 116 181 Total additions 201 483 Disposals (300 ) (271 ) Adjustments on deconsolidation of OEICs — (881 ) Changes in fair value (note 7) (1,058 ) (321 ) Disposal of businesses — (32 ) At 31 December 2,631 3,722 The investment properties are valued at least annually at open-market value, by independent, professionally qualified valuers, who have recent experience in the location and categories of the investment properties being valued. In addition, the following amounts have been recognised in the income statement: 2008 2007 £m £m Rental income 209 227 Direct operating expenses arising from investment properties that generate rental income 29 24 Capital expenditure in respect of investment properties: 2008 2007 £m £m Capital expenditure contracted for at the balance sheet date but not recognised in the financial statements 82 111 23 GOODWILL 2008 2007 £m £m At 1 January 2,358 2,377 Exchange and other adjustments (2 ) — Disposals — (19 ) Impairment charge to the income statement (100 ) — At 31 December 2,256 2,358 Cost* 2,362 2,364 Accumulated impairment losses (106 ) (6 ) At 31 December 2,256 2,358 * For acquisitions made prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, cost is included net of amounts amortised up to 31 December 2003. The goodwill held in the Group’s balance sheet is tested at least annually for impairment. For the purposes of impairment testing the goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit; of the total balance of £2,256 million (2007: £2,358 million), £1,836 million (or 81 per cent of the total) has been allocated to Scottish Widows and £410 million (or 18 per cent of the total) to Asset Finance. The recoverable amount of Scottish Widows has been based on a value in use calculation. The calculation uses projections of future cash flows based upon budgets and plans approved by management covering a five-year period, and a discount rate of 12 per cent (gross of tax). The budgets and plans are based upon past experience adjusted to take into account anticipated changes in sales volumes, product mix and margins having regard to expected market conditions and competitor activity. The discount rate is determined with reference to internal measures and available industry information. Cash flows beyond the five-year period have been extrapolated using a steady 3 per cent growth rate which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the life assurance market. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not cause the recoverable amount of Scottish Widows to fall below its balance sheet carrying value. F-38 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 GOODWILL continued The recoverable amount of Asset Finance has also been based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and plans approved by management covering a five-year period and a discount rate of 15 per cent (gross of tax). The discount rate has been set at a premium over the Group’s weighted average cost of capital to take into account the specific risk profile of the Asset Finance business. The cash flows for each of the businesses of Asset Finance beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using steady growth rates, in each case not exceeding 2.5 per cent nor the long-term average growth rates for the markets in which the respective businesses of Asset Finance participate. During 2008, the basis of goodwill allocation and the related value in use calculation has been changed to treat the consumer finance business as a single cash generating unit encompassing the motor and personal finance operations which provide direct and point of sale finance; this reflects the strategic and operational interdependencies and shared market dynamics of these units. The markets in which these units operate have been affected by the UK economic downturn, which has been characterised by a fall off in demand and increasing arrears at this point of the cycle. This, together with continuing uncertainties over the likely short-term macroeconomic environment, has resulted in a reassessment of the carrying value of the consumer finance cash generating unit and the recognition of a goodwill impairment charge of £100 million at 31 December 2008. 24 VALUE OF IN-FORCE BUSINESS The asset in the consolidated balance sheet and movement recognised in the income statement are as follows: Gross value of in-force insurance and participating investment business 2008 2007 £m £m At 1 January 2,218 2,723 Movements in the year: New business 368 264 Existing business: Expected return (112 ) (166 ) Experience variances (46 ) (38 ) Assumption changes (92 ) 69 Economic variance (443 ) (222 ) Movement in value of in-force business taken to income statement (note 9) (325 ) (93 ) Disposal of business — (412 ) At 31 December 1,893 2,218 This breakdown shows the movement in the value of in-force business only, and does not represent the full contribution that each item in the breakdown contributes to profit before tax, which would also contain changes in the other assets and liabilities of the relevant businesses. Economic variance is the element of earnings which is generated from changes to economic experience in the period and to assumptions over time. The presentation of economic variance includes the impact of financial market conditions being different at the end of the reporting period from those included in assumptions used to calculate new and existing business returns. The principal features of the methodology and process used for determining key assumptions used in the calculation of the value of in-force business are set out below: ECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS Each cash flow is valued using the discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets. In practice, to achieve the same result, where the cash flows are either independent of or move linearly with market movements, a method has been applied known as the ‘certainty equivalent’ approach whereby it is assumed that all assets earn the risk-free rate and all cash flows are discounted at the risk-free rate. A market consistent approach has been adopted for the valuation of financial options and guarantees, using a stochastic option pricing technique calibrated to be consistent with the market price of relevant options at each valuation date. The risk free rate used for the value of financial options and guarantees is defined as the spot yield derived from the UK gilt yield curve in line with Scottish Widows’ FSA realistic balance sheet assumptions. The valuation of the Group’s annuity business has been affected by the recent upheaval in the capital markets which has caused a significant widening in corporate bond spreads in 2008. Based on available market analysis, an element of this widening in corporate bond spreads has been assessed as arising from an increase in the illiquidity premium. Annuity contracts cannot be surrendered and have reasonably certain cash flows best matched by assets of equivalent maturity with similar liquidity characteristics. As a result, in 2008 the value of in-force business asset for annuity business has been calculated after taking into account an estimate of 154 basis points for the market premium for illiquidity, which has been derived from market and other published sources using a portfolio of investment grade bonds with similar cash flow characteristics as the annuity liabilities. The effect of this has been to increase the value of in-force business by £842 million as at 31 December 2008 with a similar increase in profit before tax. This is reflected as an economic variance in the table above, together with other market movements. F-39 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 VALUE OF IN-FORCE BUSINESS continued The risk free rate assumed in valuing the in-force asset for annuity business is presented as a single risk free rate to allow easier comparison to the rate used for other business. That single risk free rate has been derived to give the equivalent value to the annuity book, had the book been valued using the UK gilt yield curve increased to reflect the illiquidity premium as described above. For 2008, the risk-free rate assumed in valuing the in-force asset for non-annuity business is the 15-year gilt yield. The table below shows the range of resulting yields and other key assumptions at 31 December: 2008 2007 % % Risk-free rate (value of in-force non-annuity business) 3.74 4.65 Risk-free rate (value of in-force annuity business) 5.22 4.65 Risk-free rate (financial options and guarantees) 1.11 to 4.24 4.28 to 4.81 Retail price inflation 2.75 3.28 Expense inflation 3.50 4.18 NON-MARKET RISK An allowance for non-market risk is made through the choice of best estimate assumptions based upon experience, which generally will give the mean expected financial outcome for shareholders and hence no further allowance for non-market risk is required. However, in the case of operational risk and the With Profit Fund there are asymmetries in the range of potential outcomes for which an explicit allowance is made. NON-ECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS Future mortality, morbidity, lapse and paid-up rate assumptions are reviewed each year and are based on an analysis of past experience and represent management’s best estimate of likely future experience. Further information about the effect of changes in key assumptions is given in note 32. 25 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Customer Software lists enhancements Total £m £m £m Cost: At 1 January 2007 54 198 252 Additions 3 47 50 Disposals — (5 ) (5 ) At 31 December 2007 57 240 297 Additions 6 80 86 At 31 December 2008 63 320 383 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 2007 — 114 114 Charge for the year 5 31 36 Disposals — (2 ) (2 ) At 31 December 2007 5 143 148 Charge for the year 7 31 38 At 31 December 2008 12 174 186 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2008 51 146 197 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2007 52 97 149 Software enhancements principally comprise identifiable and directly associated internal staff and other costs. F-40 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Operating Total tangible Premises Equipment lease assets fixed assets £m £m £m £m Cost: At 1 January 2007 1,488 2,849 2,866 7,203 Exchange and other adjustments — 2 (24 ) (22 ) Adjustments on disposal of businesses (53 ) (89 ) — (142 ) Adjustments on deconsolidation of subsidiaries — — (1,015 ) (1,015 ) Additions 60 286 549 895 Disposals (58 ) (177 ) (945 ) (1,180 ) At 31 December 2007 1,437 2,871 1,431 5,739 Exchange and other adjustments 2 18 70 90 Additions 96 341 556 993 Disposals (19 ) (82 ) (493 ) (594 ) At 31 December 2008 1,516 3,148 1,564 6,228 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: At 1 January 2007 675 1,960 316 2,951 Exchange and other adjustments — 2 (3 ) (1 ) Adjustments on disposal of businesses (11 ) (35 ) — (46 ) Adjustments on deconsolidation of subsidiaries — — (86 ) (86 ) Charge for the year 83 242 269 594 Disposals (29 ) (162 ) (321 ) (512 ) At 31 December 2007 718 2,007 175 2,900 Exchange and other adjustments 1 10 21 32 Charge for the year 81 254 313 648 Disposals (11 ) (63 ) (243 ) (317 ) At 31 December 2008 789 2,208 266 3,263 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2008 727 940 1,298 2,965 Balance sheet amount at 31 December 2007 719 864 1,256 2,839 At 31 December the future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2008 2007 £m £m Receivable within 1 year 294 259 1 to 5 years 320 271 Over 5 years 9 9 623 539 Equipment leased to customers under operating leases primarily relates to vehicle contract hire arrangements. During 2008 and 2007 no contingent rentals in respect of operating leases were recognised in the income statement. In addition, total future minimum sub-lease income of £102 million at 31 December 2008 (£113 million at 31 December 2007) is expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases of the Group’s premises. F-41 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 OTHER ASSETS 2008 2007 £m £m Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held (note 32) 385 350 Deferred acquisition costs 196 212 Settlement balances 751 205 Other assets and prepayments 4,524 4,296 5,856 5,063 At 31 December 2008 £1,833 million (2007: £1,781 million) of other assets had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. Deferred acquisition costs: 2008 2007 £m £m At 1 January 212 443 Acquisition costs deferred, net of amounts amortised to the income statement (16 ) (22 ) Disposal of businesses and other adjustments — (209 ) At 31 December 196 212 28 DEPOSITS FROM BANKS The breakdown of deposits from banks between the domestic and international offices of the Group is set out below: 2008 2007 £m £m Domestic: Non-interest bearing 131 101 Interest bearing 58,471 32,335 58,602 32,436 International: Non-interest bearing 23 46 Interest bearing 7,889 6,609 7,912 6,655 Deposits from banks 66,514 39,091 At 31 December 2008 £1,956 million (2007: £25 million) of deposits from banks had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. Included in deposits from banks were deposits of £2,574 million (2007: £1,509 million) held as collateral, principally in relation to derivative contracts. The fair value of those deposits approximates the carrying amount. 29 CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS 2008 2007 £m £m Non-interest bearing current accounts 4,176 3,807 Interest bearing current accounts 47,109 45,726 Savings and investment accounts 76,144 71,905 Other customer deposits 43,509 35,117 Customer accounts 170,938 156,555 F-42 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS continued The breakdown of customer accounts between the domestic and international offices of the Group is set out below: 2008 £m 2007 £m Domestic: Non-interest bearing 3,530 3,407 Interest bearing 162,804 149,412 166,334 152,819 International: Non-interest bearing 646 400 Interest bearing 3,958 3,336 4,604 3,736 Customer accounts 170,938 156,555 At 31 December 2008 £2,499 million (2007: £1,949 million) of customer accounts had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. Included in customer accounts were deposits of £1,002 million (2007: £777 million) held as collateral, principally in relation to derivative contracts. The fair value of those deposits approximates the carrying amount. 30 TRADING AND OTHER LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS 2008 £m 2007 £m Liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss (debt securities) 6,748 3,107 Trading liabilities 6 99 Trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6,754 3,206 At 31 December 2008 £6,525 million (2007: £2,032 million) of trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. The amount contractually payable on maturity of the debt securities held at fair value through profit or loss at 31 December 2008 was £6,517 million, which was £231 million lower than the balance sheet carrying value (2007: £3,131 million, which was £24 million higher than the balance sheet carrying value). At 31 December 2008 there was a cumulative £44 million decrease in the fair value of these liabilities attributable to changes in credit spread risk; this is determined by reference to the quoted credit spreads of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, the issuing entity within the Group. Of the £44 million, £36 million arose in 2008 and £8 million arose in 2007. Liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss represent debt securities in issue which either contain substantive embedded derivatives which would otherwise need to be recognised and measured at fair value separately from the related debt securities, or which are accounted for at fair value to significantly reduce an accounting mismatch. 31 DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE 2008 £m 2007 £m Euro medium-term note programme 9,178 4,692 Other bonds and medium-term notes 12,695 14,497 Certificates of deposit issued 33,207 14,995 Commercial paper 20,630 17,388 Total debt securities in issue 75,710 51,572 At 31 December 2008 £16,120 million (2007: £18,604 million) of debt securities in issue had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. Debt securities in issue at 31 December 2008 included £9,824 million (2007: £12,403 million) in respect of the securitisation of mortgages and £226 million (2007: £98 million) in respect of the securitisation of corporate and commercial banking loans (see note 19). F-43 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS 2008 £m 2007 £m Insurance contract liabilities 22,173 23,189 Participating investment contract liabilities 11,619 14,874 33,792 38,063 At 31 December 2008 £29,967 million (2007: £35,603 million) of liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES Insurance contract liabilities, substantially all of which relate to business written in the United Kingdom, are comprised as follows: 2008 2007 Gross £m Reinsurance* £m Net £m Gross £m Reinsurance* £m Net £m Life insurance (see (1) below) 21,518 (380 ) 21,138 22,526 (340 ) 22,186 Non-life insurance (see (2) below): Unearned premiums 472 — 472 456 — 456 Claims outstanding 183 (5 ) 178 207 (10 ) 197 655 (5 ) 650 663 (10 ) 653 22,173 (385 ) 21,788 23,189 (350 ) 22,839 * Reinsurance balances receivable are reported within other assets (note 27). (1) LIFE INSURANCE The movement in life insurance contract liabilities over the year can be analysed as follows: Gross £m Reinsurance £m Net £m At 1 January 2007 25,763 (425 ) 25,338 New business 2,428 (18 ) 2,410 Changes in existing business (1,316 ) 15 (1,301 ) Disposal of businesses (4,349 ) 88 (4,261 ) At 31 December 2007 22,526 (340 ) 22,186 New business 2,915 (32 ) 2,883 Changes in existing business (3,923 ) (8 ) (3,931 ) At 31 December 2008 21,518 (380 ) 21,138 The movement in liabilities arising from participating investment contracts may be analysed as follows: £m At 1 January 2007 15,095 New business 491 Changes in existing business (712 ) At 31 December 2007 14,874 New business 208 Changes in existing business (3,463 ) At 31 December 2008 11,619 F-44 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS continued PROCESS FOR DETERMINING KEY ASSUMPTIONS The process for determining the key assumptions for insurance contracts and participating investment contracts is set out below. These policy liabilities can be split into With Profit Fund liabilities, accounted for using the FSA’s realistic capital regime (realistic liabilities) and Non-Profit Fund liabilities, accounted for using a traditional prospective actuarial discounted cash flow methodology as described in the accounting policies. WITH PROFIT FUND REALISTIC LIABILITIES The Group’s With Profit Fund contains life insurance contracts and participating investment contracts. The calculation of With Profit Fund realistic liabilities uses best estimate assumptions for mortality, persistency rates and expenses. These are calculated in a similar manner to those used for the value of in-force business as discussed in note 24. The persistency rates used for the realistic valuation of the With Profit Fund liabilities make an allowance for potential changes in future experience as the guarantees and options within with-profits contracts become more valuable under adverse market conditions. Other key assumptions are: INVESTMENT RETURNS AND DISCOUNT RATES The realistic capital regime dictates that With Profit Fund liabilities are valued on a market-consistent basis. This is achieved by the use of a valuation model which values liabilities on a basis calibrated to tradable market option contracts and other observable market data. The With Profit Fund financial options and guarantees are valued using a stochastic simulation model where all assets are assumed to earn, on average, the risk-free yield and all cash flows are discounted using the risk-free yield. The risk-free yield is defined as the spot yield derived from the UK gilt yield curve. GUARANTEED ANNUITY OPTION TAKE-UP RATES The guaranteed annuity option take-up rates are set with regard to the Group’s actual experience and make allowance for potential increases in take-up rates when the Guaranteed Annuity Options become more valuable to the policyholder. INVESTMENT VOLATILITY The calibration of the stochastic simulation model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or historical volatility where it is not possible to observe meaningful prices. For example, as at 31 December 2008, the 10 year equity-implied at-the-money assumption was set at 34.6 per cent (31 December 2007: 25.5 per cent). The assumption for property volatility was 15 per cent (31 December 2007: 15 per cent), with swaption volatility of broadly 16 per cent (31 December 2007: broadly 11 per cent). MORTALITY The mortality assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity for annuitants, are set with regard to the Group’s actual experience where this is significant, and relevant industry data otherwise. LAPSE RATES Lapse rates refer to the rate of policy termination and the rate at which policyholders stop paying regular premiums. These rates are based on a combination of historical experience and management’s views on future experience taking into consideration potential changes in future experience that may result from guarantees and options becoming more valuable under adverse market conditions. NON-PROFIT FUND LIABILITIES Generally, assumptions used to value Non-Profit Fund liabilities are prudent in nature and therefore contain a margin for adverse deviation. This margin for adverse deviation is based on management’s judgement and reflects management’s views on the inherent level of uncertainty. The key assumptions used in the measurement of Non-Profit Fund liabilities are: INTEREST RATES The rates used are derived in accordance with the FSA Rules. These limit the rates of interest that can be used by reference to a number of factors including the redemption yields on fixed interest assets at the valuation date. Margins for risk are allowed for in the assumed interest rates. These are derived from the limits in the FSA Rules, including reductions made to the available yields to allow for default risk based upon the credit rating of each stock. MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY The mortality and morbidity assumptions, including allowances for improvements in longevity for annuitants, are set with regard to the Group’s actual experience where this provides a reliable basis, and relevant industry data otherwise, and include a margin for adverse deviation. F-45 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS continued LAPSE RATES Lapse rates, set with regard to the Group’s actual experience and with a margin for adverse deviation, are allowed for on some Non-Profit Fund contracts. MAINTENANCE EXPENSES Allowance is made for future policy costs explicitly. Expenses are determined by reference to an internal analysis of current and expected future costs plus a margin for adverse deviation. Explicit allowance is made for future expense inflation. KEY CHANGES IN ASSUMPTIONS During 2008, following a detailed review of the Group’s current and expected experience, there has been a change in the key assumption in respect of lapse and paid-up rates. The impact of this change has been to decrease profit before tax by £143 million; this amount includes movements in liabilities and value of the in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts. (2) NON-LIFE INSURANCE Gross non-life insurance contract liabilities are analysed by line of business as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m Credit protection 293 274 Home 359 385 Health 3 4 655 663 For non-life insurance contracts, the methodology and assumptions used in relation to determining the bases of the earned premium and claims provisioning levels are derived for each individual underwritten product. Assumptions are intended to be neutral estimates of the most likely or expected outcome. There has been no significant change in the assumptions and methodologies used for setting reserves. The reserving methodology and associated assumptions are set out below: The unearned premium reserve is determined on a basis that reflects the length of time for which contracts have been in force and the projected incidence of risk over the term of each contract. Claims outstanding comprise those claims that have been notified and those that have been incurred but not reported. Claims incurred but not reported are determined based on the historical emergence of claims and their average cost. The notified claims element represents the best estimate of the cost of claims reported using projections and estimates based on historical experience. The movements in non-life insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets over the year have been as follows: Gross £m Reinsurance £m Net £m Provisions for unearned premiums At 1 January 2007 438 — 438 Increase in the year 632 (23 ) 609 Release in the year (614 ) 23 (591 ) At 31 December 2007 456 — 456 Increase in the year 651 (23 ) 628 Release in the year (635 ) 23 (612 ) At 31 December 2008 472 — 472 F-46 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS continued These provisions represent the liability for short-term insurance contracts for which the Group’s obligations are not expired at the year end. Gross £m Reinsurance £m Net £m Claims and loss adjustment expenses Notified claims 127 (4 ) 123 Incurred but not reported 22 — 22 At 1 January 2007 149 (4 ) 145 Cash paid for claims settled in the year (275 ) — (275 ) Increase (decrease) in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 341 (9 ) 332 Arising from prior year claims (8 ) 3 (5 ) At 31 December 2007 207 (10 ) 197 Cash paid for claims settled in the year (245 ) 7 (238 ) Increase (decrease) in liabilities: Arising from current year claims 221 — 221 Arising from prior year claims — (2 ) (2 ) At 31 December 2008 183 (5 ) 178 Notified claims 160 (5 ) 155 Incurred but not reported 23 — 23 At 31 December 2008 183 (5 ) 178 Notified claims 188 (10 ) 178 Incurred but not reported 19 — 19 At 31 December 2007 207 (10 ) 197 NON-LIFE INSURANCE CLAIMS DEVELOPMENT TABLE The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Group’s ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims. The top half of the table below illustrates how the Group’s estimate of total claims outstanding for each accident year has changed at successive year ends. The bottom half of the table reconciles the cumulative claims to the amount appearing in the balance sheet. The accident year basis is considered the most appropriate for the business written by the Group. NON-LIFE INSURANCE ALL RISKS – GROSS 2004 £m 2005 £m 2006 £m 2007 £m 2008 £m Total £m Accident year Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of accident year 227 211 208 317 205 1,168 One year later 209 207 206 311 Two years later 207 204 204 Three years later 206 202 Four years later 206 Current estimate of cumulative claims 206 202 204 311 205 1,128 Cumulative payments to date (204 ) (197 ) (195 ) (265 ) (99 ) (960 ) Liability recognised in the balance sheet 2 5 9 46 106 168 Liability in respect of earlier years 8 Total liability included in the balance sheet 176 The liability of £176 million shown in the above table excludes £7 million of unallocated claims handling expenses. F-47 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 LIFE INSURANCE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The following table demonstrates the effect of changes in key assumptions on profit before tax and equity disclosed in these financial statements assuming that the other assumptions remain unchanged. In practice this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some assumptions may be correlated. These amounts include movements in assets, liabilities and the value of the in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts. The impact is shown in one direction but can be assumed to be reasonably symmetrical. Change in variable Increase (reduction) in profit before tax £m Increase (reduction) in equity £m Non-annuitant mortality1 5% reduction 31 22 Annuitant mortality2 5% reduction (77 ) (55 ) Lapse rates3 10% reduction 38 28 Future maintenance and investment expenses4 10% reduction 70 50 Risk-free rate5 0.25% deduction 47 34 Guaranteed annuity option take up6 5% addition (22 ) (15 ) Equity investment volatility7 1% addition (7 ) (5 ) Widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds8 0.25% addition (82 ) (59 ) Decrease in illiquidity premia9 0.25% deduction (134 ) (97 ) Assumptions have been flexed on the basis used to calculate the value of in-force business and the realistic and statutory reserving bases. 1 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing mortality and morbidity rates on non-annuity business to 95 per cent of the expected rate. 2 This sensitivity shows the impact on the annuity and deferred annuity business of reducing mortality rates to 95 per cent of the expected rate. 3 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing lapse and surrender rates to 90 per cent of the expected rate. 4 This sensitivity shows the impact of reducing maintenance expenses and investment expenses to 90 per cent of the expected rate. 5 This sensitivity shows the impact on the value of in-force business, financial options and guarantee costs, statutory reserves and asset values of reducing the risk-free rate by 25 basis points. 6 This sensitivity shows the impact of a flat 5 per cent addition to the expected rate. 7 This sensitivity shows the impact of a flat 1 per cent addition to the expected rate. 8 This sensitivity shows the impact of a 25 basis point increase in credit default spreads on corporate bonds and the corresponding reduction in market values. Government bond yields, the risk-free rate and illiquidity premia are all assumed to be unchanged. 9 This sensitivity shows the impact of a 25 basis point reduction in the allowance for illiquidity premia. It assumes the overall corporate bond spreads are unchanged and hence market values are unchanged. Government bond yields and the risk-free rate are both assumed to be unchanged. F-48 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34 LIABILITIES ARISING FROM NON-PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS The movement in liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts may be analysed as follows: Gross £m Reinsurance £m Net £m At 1 January 2007 24,370 (22 ) 24,348 New business 2,413 — 2,413 Changes in existing business (1,303 ) 22 (1,281 ) Disposal of businesses (7,283 ) — (7,283 ) At 31 December 2007 18,197 — 18,197 New business 660 — 660 Changes in existing business (4,614 ) — (4,614 ) At 31 December 2008 14,243 — 14,243 35 UNALLOCATED SURPLUS WITHIN INSURANCE BUSINESSES The movement in the unallocated surplus within long-term insurance business over the year can be analysed as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m At 1 January 554 683 Change in unallocated surplus recognised in the income statement (note 10) (284 ) (114 ) Disposal of businesses — (15 ) At 31 December 270 554 36 OTHER LIABILITIES 2008 £m 2007 £m Settlement balances 891 445 Unitholders’ interest in Open Ended Investment Companies 4,336 3,441 Other creditors and accruals 6,229 5,804 Other liabilities 11,456 9,690 At 31 December 2008 £5,454 million (2007: £4,427 million) of other liabilities had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. 37 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Charge to the income statement Defined benefit pension schemes 157 158 104 Other post-retirement benefit schemes 7 17 5 Total defined benefit schemes 164 175 109 Defined contribution pension schemes 71 63 56 235 238 165 2008 £m 2007 £m Amounts recognised in the balance sheet Defined benefit pension schemes 1,657 2,033 Other post-retirement benefit schemes 114 111 1,771 2,144 F-49 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued PENSION SCHEMES DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES The Group has established a number of defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and overseas. The majority of the Group’s employees are members of the defined benefit sections of the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Schemes No’s 1 and 2. These schemes provide retirement benefits calculated as a percentage of final salary depending upon the length of service; the minimum retirement age under the rules of the schemes is 50. The latest full valuations of the two main schemes are being carried out as at 30 June 2008. The provisional results have been updated to 31 December 2008 by qualified independent actuaries. The last full valuations of other Group schemes were carried out on a number of different dates; these have been updated to 31 December 2008 by qualified independent actuaries or, in the case of the Scottish Widows Retirement Benefits Scheme, by a qualified actuary employed by Scottish Widows. The Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes are funded. The Group currently expects to pay contributions of at least £525 million to its defined benefit schemes in 2009. 2008 £m 2007 £m Amount included in the balance sheet Present value of funded obligations 15,617 16,795 Fair value of scheme assets (13,693 ) (16,112 ) 1,924 683 Unrecognised actuarial (losses) gains (267 ) 1,350 Liability in the balance sheet 1,657 2,033 2008 £m 2007 £m Movements in the defined benefit obligation At 1 January 16,795 17,378 Current service cost 258 302 Interest cost 957 866 Actuarial gains (1,928 ) (971 ) Benefits paid (597 ) (555 ) Past service cost 21 25 Curtailments 6 — Disposal of businesses — (262 ) Exchange and other adjustments 105 12 At 31 December 15,617 16,795 2008 £m 2007 £m Changes in the fair value of scheme assets At 1 January 16,112 15,279 Expected return 1,085 1,035 Employer contributions 541 446 Actuarial (losses) gains (3,520 ) 139 Benefits paid (597 ) (555 ) Disposal of businesses — (244 ) Exchange and other adjustments 72 12 At 31 December 13,693 16,112 Actual return on scheme assets (2,435 ) 1,174 F-50 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued ASSUMPTIONS The principal actuarial and financial assumptions used in valuations of the defined benefit pension schemes were as follows: 2008 % 2007 % 2006 % Discount rate 6.30 5.80 5.10 Rate of inflation 3.00 3.30 2.90 Rate of salary increases 3.75 4.00 3.93 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 2.80 3.10 2.70 Years Years Years Life expectancy for member aged 60, on the valuation date: Men 26.4 25.9 25.8 Women 27.2 27.9 27.8 Life expectancy for member aged 60, 15 years after the valuation date: Men 27.3 27.1 27.0 Women 28.1 29.0 28.9 The mortality assumptions used in the scheme valuations are based on standard tables published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries which were adjusted in line with the actual experience of the relevant schemes. The table shows that a member retiring at age 60 as at 31 December 2008 is assumed to live for, on average, 26.4 years for a male and 27.2 years for a female. In practice there will be much variation between individual members but these assumptions are expected to be appropriate across all members. It is assumed that younger members will live longer in retirement than those retiring now. This reflects the expectation that mortality rates will continue to fall over time as medical science and standards of living improve. To illustrate the degree of improvement assumed the table also shows the life expectancy for members aged 45 now, when they retire in 15 years time at age 60. An analysis of the impact of a reasonable change in these assumptions is provided in note 3. The expected return on scheme assets has been calculated using the following assumptions: 2008 % 2007 % 2006 % Equities 8.2 8.0 8.0 Fixed interest gilts 4.5 4.6 4.1 Index linked gilts 4.4 4.2 3.9 Non-Government bonds 6.0 5.1 4.8 Property 6.7 6.5 6.4 Money market instruments and cash 4.8 3.9 3.7 The expected return on scheme assets in 2009 will be calculated using the following assumptions: 2009 % Equities and alternative assets 8.4 Fixed interest gilts 3.7 Index linked gilts 4.0 Non-Government bonds 6.7 Property 6.4 Money market instruments and cash 3.8 F-51 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued Composition of scheme assets: 2008 £m 2007 £m Equities 7,040 8,537 Fixed interest gilts 1,452 2,041 Index linked gilts 1,326 1,433 Non-Government bonds 1,721 1,990 Property 1,485 1,666 Money market instruments, cash and other assets and liabilities 669 445 At 31 December 13,693 16,112 The assets of all the funded plans are held independently of the Group’s assets in separate trustee administered funds. The expected return on plan assets was determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets underlying the current investment policy. Expected yields on fixed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields at the balance sheet date at a term and credit rating broadly appropriate for the bonds held. Expected returns on equity and property investment are long-term rates based on the views of the plan’s independent investment consultants. The expected return on equities allows for the different expected returns from the private equity, infrastructure and hedge fund investments held by some of the funded plans. Some of the funded plans also invest in certain money market instruments and the expected return on these investments has been assumed to be the same as cash. Experience adjustments history (since the date of adoption of IAS 19): 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m 2005 £m 2004 £m Present value of defined benefit obligation 15,617 16,795 17,378 17,320 14,866 Fair value of scheme assets (13,693 ) (16,112 ) (15,279 ) (14,026 ) (11,648 ) 1,924 683 2,099 3,294 3,218 Experience losses on scheme liabilities (39 ) (185 ) (50 ) (69 ) (126 ) Experience (losses) gains on scheme assets (3,520 ) 139 314 1,538 361 The expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December comprises: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Current service cost 258 302 325 Interest cost 957 866 817 Expected return on scheme assets (1,085 ) (1,035 ) (942 ) Curtailments 6 — (128 ) Past service cost 21 25 32 Total defined benefit pension expense 157 158 104 Following changes in age discrimination legislation in 2006, the Group ceased to augment the pension entitlement of employees taking early retirement; this change reduced the Group’s defined benefit pension liability at 31 December 2006 by £129 million (£1 million of which was unrecognised) and resulted in a one-off credit to the 2006 income statement of £128 million. DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas, principally the defined contribution sections of the Lloyds TSB Group Pension Schemes No’s 1 and 2. During the year ended 31 December 2008 the charge to the income statement in respect of these schemes was £71 million (2007: £63 million), representing the contributions payable by the employer in accordance with each scheme’s rules. OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES The Group operates a number of schemes which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain employees, retired employees and their dependants. The principal scheme relates to former Lloyds Bank staff and under this scheme the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare for all eligible former employees (and their dependants) who retired prior to 1 January 1996. The Group has entered into an insurance contract to provide these benefits and a provision has been made for the estimated cost of future insurance premiums payable. For the principal post-retirement healthcare scheme, the latest actuarial valuation of the liability was carried out at 30 June 2007; this valuation has been updated to 31 December 2008 by qualified independent actuaries. The principal assumptions used were as set out above, except that the rate of increase in healthcare premiums has been assumed at 7.50 per cent (2007: 7.43 per cent). F-52 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued Amount included in the balance sheet: 2008 £m 2007 £m Present value of unfunded obligations 118 123 Unrecognised actuarial losses (4 ) (12 ) Liability in the balance sheet 114 111 Movements in the other post-retirement benefits obligation: 2008 £m 2007 £m At 1 January 123 110 Exchange and other adjustments 2 — Actuarial (gain) loss (8 ) 2 Insurance premiums paid (6 ) (6 ) Charge for the year 7 17 At 31 December 118 123 38 DEFERRED TAX The movement in the net deferred tax balance is as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m Liability at 1 January 948 1,416 Exchange and other adjustments 4 — Disposals (98 ) (389 ) Income statement (credit) charge: Due to change in UK corporation tax rate — (110 ) Other (773 ) 21 (773 ) (89 ) Amount charged (credited) to equity: Available-for-sale financial assets (note 43) (566 ) (1 ) Net investment hedge (note 43) (358 ) — Cash flow hedges (note 43) (5 ) (6 ) Share based compensation 15 17 (914 ) 10 (Asset) liability at 31 December (833 ) 948 The deferred tax (credit) charge in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Accelerated capital allowances (318 ) (32 ) 175 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 104 134 134 Investment reserve 32 (30 ) 59 Allowances for impairment losses (2 ) 42 22 Unrealised gains (297 ) (91 ) 162 Tax on value of in-force business (193 ) (108 ) (59 ) Other temporary differences (99 ) (4 ) 81 (773 ) (89 ) 574 F-53 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38 DEFERRED TAX continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m Deferred tax assets: Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (496 ) (600 ) Allowances for impairment losses (103 ) (101 ) Other provisions (51 ) (15 ) Derivatives (114 ) (178 ) Available-for-sale asset revaluation (567 ) (1 ) Tax losses carried forward (856 ) (409 ) Other temporary differences (121 ) (168 ) (2,308 ) (1,472 ) 2008 £m 2007 £m Deferred tax liabilities: Accelerated capital allowances 561 979 Investment reserve 151 119 Unrealised gains 45 342 Tax on value of in-force business 459 652 Other temporary differences 259 328 1,475 2,420 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses and foreign tax credit carry forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable. Scottish Widows plc has recognised a deferred tax asset of £388 million and other Group companies have recognised deferred tax assets totalling £468 million in relation to tax losses carried forward. For all of these losses, after reviewing medium term profit forecasts, the Group considers that there will be sufficient profits in the future against which these losses will be offset. Deferred tax assets of £252 million (2007: £33 million) have not been recognised in respect of capital losses carried forward as there are no predicted future capital profits. Capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely. In addition, deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of Eligible Unrelieved Foreign Tax (EUFT) and other foreign tax credits carried forward as at 31 December 2008 of £60 million (2007: £104 million), as there are no predicted future taxable profits against which the unrelieved foreign tax credits can be utilised. EUFT can be carried forward indefinitely. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised for tax that may be payable if earnings of certain subsidiaries were remitted to the UK. Such amounts are either reinvested for the foreseeable future or can be remitted free of tax. Unremitted earnings totalled £1,196 million (2007: £928 million). Future transfers from Scottish Widows plc’s long-term business funds to its Shareholder Fund will be subject to a shareholder tax charge. Under IAS 12, no provision is required to be made to the extent that the timing of such transfers is under Scottish Widows plc’s control. Accordingly, deferred tax liabilities of £90 million (2007: £90 million) have not been recognised. F-54 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 OTHER PROVISIONS Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments £m Customer remediation provisions £m Vacant leasehold property and other £m Total £m At 1 January 2008 29 43 137 209 Exchange and other adjustments 1 — 13 14 Provisions applied (6 ) (9 ) (21 ) (36 ) Amortisation of discount — — 2 2 Charge for the year 6 — 35 41 At 31 December 2008 30 34 166 230 PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS Provisions are held in cases where the Group is irrevocably committed to advance additional funds, but where there is doubt as to the customer’s ability to meet its repayment obligations. CUSTOMER REMEDIATION PROVISIONS The Group establishes provisions for the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers in respect of past product sales, in those cases where the original sales processes have been found to be deficient. During 2008 management has reviewed the adequacy of the provisions held having regard to current complaint volumes and the level of payments being made and are satisfied that no additional charge is required. At 31 December 2008 the remaining provisions held relate to past sales of a number of products, including mortgage endowment policies, sold through the branch networks of Lloyds TSB Bank, Lloyds TSB Scotland and Cheltenham & Gloucester and underwritten by life assurance companies within the Group and also by third parties. The principal assumptions that are made in the assessment of the adequacy of the provision relate to the number of cases that are likely to require redress, taking into account any time barring, and the estimated average cost per case. The ultimate cost and timing of the payments remains highly uncertain and will be influenced by external factors beyond the control of management, such as regulatory actions, media interest and the performance of the financial markets. However, it is expected that the majority of the remaining expenditure will be incurred within the next five years. VACANT LEASEHOLD PROPERTY AND OTHER Vacant leasehold property provisions are made by reference to a prudent estimate of expected sub-let income, compared to the head rent, and the possibility of disposing of the Group’s interest in the lease, taking into account conditions in the property market. These provisions are reassessed on a biennial basis and will normally run off over the period of under-recovery of the leases concerned, currently averaging five years; where a property is disposed of earlier than anticipated, any remaining balance in the provision relating to that property is released. The Group also carries provisions in respect of its obligations relating to UIC Insurance Company Limited (UIC), which is in provisional liquidation. The Group has indemnified a third party against losses in the event that UIC does not honour its obligations under a reinsurance contract, which is subject to asbestosis and pollution claims in the US. The ultimate cost of settling the Group’s exposure in respect of the insurance business of UIC and the timing remains uncertain. The provision held represents management’s current best estimate of the cost after having regard to the financial condition of UIC and actuarial estimates of future claims. F-55 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES Note 2008 £m 2007 £m Preferred securities 6.90% Perpetual Capital Securities (US$1,000 million) d, g 756 471 Fixed/Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Callable Preference Shares callable 2015 (£600 million) a, b 584 593 Fixed/Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Callable Preference Shares callable 2016 (US$1,000 million) a, c 824 515 6% Non-cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares o — — Euro Step-up Non-Voting Non-Cumulative Preferred Securities callable 2012 (€430 million) d, m 459 335 7.875% Perpetual Capital Securities (€500 million) d, f, p 472 — 7.875% Perpetual Capital Securities (US$1,250 million) d, f, p 921 — 6.35% Step-up Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2013 (€500 million) d, f, k 512 365 Sterling Step-up Non-Voting Non-Cumulative Preferred Securities callable 2015 (£250 million) d, n 248 248 4.385% Step-up Perpetual Capital Securities callable 2017 (€750 million) d, f, k 720 504 5,496 3,031 Undated subordinated liabilities Primary Capital Undated Floating Rate Notes: d, e Series 1 (US$750 million) 515 374 Series 2 (US$500 million) 343 249 Series 3 (US$600 million) 412 299 11 3/4% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds (£100 million) 100 100 5 5/8% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2009 (€1,250 million) d, k 1,212 915 Undated Step-up Floating Rate Notes callable 2009 (€150 million) d, e 144 110 6 5/8% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2010 (£410 million) d, j 409 408 5.125% Step-up Perpetual Subordinated Notes callable 2015 (£560 million) d, h 536 534 5.57% Undated Subordinated Step-up Coupon Notes callable 2015 (¥20,000 million) d, l 189 111 5.125% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2016 (£500 million) d, j 455 449 6 1/2% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2019 (£270 million) d, j 241 238 8% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2023 (£200 million) d, j 186 188 6 1/2% Undated Subordinated Step-up Notes callable 2029 (£450 million) d, j 444 444 6% Undated Subordinated Step-up Guaranteed Bonds callable 2032 (£500 million) d, j 452 450 5,638 4,869 F-56 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES continued Note 2008 £m 2007 £m Dated subordinated liabilities 5 1/4% Subordinated Notes 2008 (DM 750 million) — 281 10 5/8% Guaranteed Subordinated Loan Stock 2008 (£100 million) i — 100 9 1/2% Subordinated Bonds 2009 (£100 million) 100 100 6 1/4% Subordinated Notes 2010 (€400 million) 404 302 12% Guaranteed Subordinated Bonds 2011 (£100 million) i 100 100 9 1/8% Subordinated Bonds 2011 (£150 million) 149 149 4 3/4% Subordinated Notes 2011 (€850 million) 836 609 5 7/8% Subordinated Guaranteed Bonds 2014 (€750 million) 821 591 5 7/8% Subordinated Notes 2014 (£150 million) 149 149 6 5/8% Subordinated Notes 2015 (£350 million) 320 316 Subordinated Step-up Floating Rate Notes 2016 callable 2011 (£300 million) e 300 300 Subordinated Step-up Floating Rate Notes 2016 callable 2011 (€500 million) e 480 371 Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Notes due 2018 callable 2013 (€1,000 million) k, p 992 — Subordinated Fixed to Floating Rate Notes due 2020 callable 2015 (£750 million) k, p 754 — Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2020 (€100 million) e 96 73 5.75% Subordinated Step-up Notes 2025 callable 2020 (£350 million) 309 305 9 5/8% Subordinated Bonds 2023 (£300 million) 312 312 6,122 4,058 Total subordinated liabilities 17,256 11,958 These liabilities will, in the event of the winding-up of the issuer, be subordinated to the claims of depositors and all other creditors of the issuer. The Group has not had any defaults of principal, interest or other breaches with respect to its subordinated liabilities during the period (2007: nil). At 31 December 2008 £17,156 million (2007: £11,577 million) of subordinated liabilities had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year. a) Any repayment of preference shares would require prior notification to the Financial Services Authority. In certain circumstances, the shares may be mandatorily exchanged for qualifying non-innovative tier 1 securities. The Company may declare no dividend or a partial dividend on these preference shares. Dividends may be reduced if the distributable profits of the Company are insufficient to cover the payment in full of the dividends and also the payment in full of all other dividends on shares issued by the Company. b) Dividends will accrue at a rate of 6.369 per cent per annum up to 24 August 2015, and, unless redeemed, at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.28 per cent per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month sterling deposits thereafter. These preference shares can be redeemed at the option of the Company on 25 August 2015 or quarterly thereafter. c) Dividends will accrue at a rate of 6.267 per cent per annum up to 13 November 2016 and, unless redeemed, at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.035 per cent per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month sterling deposits thereafter. These preference shares can be redeemed at the option of the Company on 14 November 2016 or every 10 years thereafter. d) In certain circumstances, these notes, bonds and securities would acquire the characteristics of preference share capital. Any repayments of undated subordinated liabilities would require prior notification to the Financial Services Authority. They are accounted for as liabilities since coupon payments are mandatory as a consequence of the terms of the 6 per cent Non-cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares. e) These notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates. f) In certain circumstances the interest payments on these securities can be deferred although in this case neither Lloyds TSB Bank plc nor Lloyds Banking Group plc can declare or pay a dividend until payments have been resumed. In the event of a winding up of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, these securities will acquire the characteristics of preference shares. g) In certain circumstances the interest payments on these securities can be deferred although in this case neither Lloyds TSB Bank plc nor Lloyds Banking Group plc can declare or pay a dividend until payments are resumed. Any deferred payments will be made good on redemption of the securities. The securities can be redeemed at par at the option of Lloyds TSB Bank plc on any coupon date. h) In certain circumstances the interest payments on these securities can be deferred although in this case Scottish Widows plc cannot declare or pay a dividend until any deferred payments have been made. F-57 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40 SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES continued i) Issued by a group undertaking under the Company’s subordinated guarantee. j) At the callable date the coupon on these notes will be reset by reference to the applicable five year benchmark gilt rate. k) In the event that these notes are not redeemed at the callable date, the coupon will be reset to a floating rate. l) In the event that these notes are not redeemed at the callable date, the coupon will be reset to a margin of 1.60 per cent over the five year Yen swap rate. m) These securities constitute limited partnership interests in Lloyds TSB Capital 1 L.P., a Jersey limited partnership in which Lloyds TSB (General Partner) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, is the general partner. Non-cumulative income distributions accrue at a fixed rate of 7.375 per cent per annum up to 7 February 2012; thereafter they will accrue at a margin of 2.33 per cent over EURIBOR. This issue was made under the limited subordinated guarantee of Lloyds TSB Bank plc. In certain circumstances these preferred securities will be mandatorily exchanged for preference shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc. Lloyds Banking Group plc has entered into an agreement whereby dividends may only be paid on its ordinary shares if sufficient distributable profits are available for distributions due in the financial year on these preferred securities. n) These securities constitute limited partnership interests in Lloyds TSB Capital 2 L.P., a Jersey limited partnership in which Lloyds TSB (General Partner) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, is the general partner. Non-cumulative income distributions accrue at a fixed rate of 7.834 per cent per annum up to 7 February 2015; thereafter they will accrue at a margin of 3.50 per cent over a rate based on the yield of specified UK Government stock. This issue was made under the limited subordinated guarantee of Lloyds TSB Bank plc. In certain circumstances these preferred securities will be mandatorily exchanged for preference shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc. Lloyds Banking Group plc has entered into an agreement whereby dividends may only be paid on its ordinary shares if sufficient distributable profits are available for distributions due in the financial year on these preferred securities. o) Since 2004, the Company has had in issue 400 6 per cent non-cumulative preference shares of 25p each. The shares, which are redeemable at the option of the Company at any time, carry the rights to a fixed rate non-cumulative preferential dividend of 6 per cent per annum; no dividend shall be payable in the event that the directors determine that prudent capital ratios would not be maintained if the dividend were paid. Upon winding up, the shares rank equally with any other preference shares issued by the Company. p) Issued during 2008 to finance the general business of the Group. Changes in the issued preference share capital of the Group during January 2009 are discussed in note 52. F-58 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 SHARE CAPITAL 2008 2007 2006 Authorised share capital Sterling: £m £m £m 6,911 million Ordinary shares of 25p each 1,728 1,728 1,728 79 million Limited voting ordinary shares of 25p each 20 20 20 175 million Preference shares of 25p each 44 44 44 1,792 1,792 1,792 US dollars: US$m US$m US$m 160 million Preference shares of 25 cents each 40 40 40 Euro: €m €m €m 160 million Preference shares of 25 cents each 40 40 40 Japanese yen: ¥m ¥m ¥m 50 million Preference shares of ¥25 each 1,250 1,250 1,250 2008 Number of shares 2007 Number of shares 2006 Number of shares 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Issued and fully paid ordinary shares Ordinary shares of 25p each At 1 January 5,647,703,945 5,637,964,437 5,602,613,600 1,412 1,409 1,400 Private placement of ordinary shares 284,400,000 — — 71 — — Issued under employee share schemes 40,751,724 9,739,508 35,350,837 10 3 9 At 31 December 5,972,855,669 5,647,703,945 5,637,964,437 1,493 1,412 1,409 Limited voting ordinary shares of 25p each At 1 January and 31 December 78,947,368 78,947,368 78,947,368 20 20 20 1,513 1,432 1,429 SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than as set out in the articles of association and:– certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law and regulations (for example, insider trading laws); – pursuant to the UK Listing Authority’s listing rules where directors and certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Company’s shares; and – pursuant to the rules of some of the Company’s employee share plans where certain restrictions may apply while the shares are subject to the plans. Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant. All of the Company’s share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control. Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time. In addition, the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or voting rights. Information regarding significant direct or indirect holdings of shares in the Company can be found on page 105. The directors have authority to allot and issue ordinary and preference shares and to make market purchases of ordinary shares in accordance with the articles of association. The authority for the Company to purchase, in the market, 572,712,063 of its shares, representing some 10 per cent of the issued share capital, expires at the annual general meeting. Shareholders will be asked, at the annual general meeting, to give similar authorities. In addition, the Company has authority to purchase, in the market, (i) the £1,000,000,000 fixed to floating non-cumulative callable preference shares issued by the Company to HM Treasury on 15 January 2009 pursuant to the preference share subscription agreement entered into with effect from 13 October 2008 by the Company and HM Treasury and (ii) the preference shares issued by the Company in exchange for the £3,000,000,000 fixed to floating non-cumulative callable preference shares issued by HBOS plc to HM Treasury on 15 January 2009 pursuant to the preference share subscription agreement entered into with effect from 13 October 2008 by HBOS plc and HM Treasury (together with the £1,000,000,000 HM Treasury preference shares, the Preference Shares) provided that (a) the maximum number of Preference Shares which may be purchased is 4,000,000 (b) the minimum price which may be paid for each Preference Share is 25 pence (exclusive of expenses) (c) the maximum price which may be paid for each Preference Share is an amount equal to 120 per cent of the liquidation preference of the Preference Share and (d) the authority expires 18 months after 19 November 2008 (except in relation to the purchase of Preference Shares the contracts for which are concluded before such expiry and which are executed wholly or partly after such expiry) unless such authority is renewed prior to that time. F-59 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 SHARE CAPITAL continued Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present and entitled to vote has one vote for every share held. Further details regarding voting at the annual general meeting can be found in the notes to the notice of the annual general meeting. ORDINARY SHARES The holders of ordinary shares (excluding the limited voting ordinary shares), who held 98.7 per cent of the total share capital as at 31 December 2008, are entitled to receive the Company’s report and accounts, attend, speak and vote at general meetings and appoint proxies to exercise voting rights. Holders of ordinary shares (excluding the limited voting ordinary shares) may also receive a dividend (subject to the provisions of the Company’s articles of association) and on a winding up may share in the assets of the Company. LIMITED VOTING ORDINARY SHARES The limited voting ordinary shares are held by the Lloyds TSB Foundations (the Foundations). The holders of the limited voting ordinary shares, who held 1.3 per cent of the total share capital as at 31 December 2008, are entitled to receive copies of every circular or other document sent out by the Company to the holders of other ordinary shares. These shares carry no rights to dividends but rank pari passu with the ordinary shares in respect of other distributions and in the event of winding up. These shares do not have any right to vote at general meetings other than on resolutions concerning acquisitions or disposals of such importance that they require shareholder consent, or for the winding up of the Company, or for a variation in the class rights of the limited voting ordinary shares. In the event of an offer for more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, each limited voting ordinary share will convert into an ordinary share and shall rank equally with the ordinary shares in all respects from the date of conversion. Lloyds Banking Group plc has entered into deeds of covenant with the Foundations, under the terms of which the Company makes annual donations to the Foundations equal, in total, to 1 per cent of the Group’s pre-tax profits (after certain adjustments) averaged over three years. The deeds of covenant can be cancelled by the Company at nine years’ notice. This donation is payable on or before the last day of February in each year (the payment date). In the event of conversion of the limited voting ordinary shares, the Foundations shall be entitled to receive a donation, on the same basis as set out above, on the payment date following conversion. PRIVATE PLACEMENT OF ORDINARY SHARES DURING 2008 On 19 September 2008, the Company entered into a placing agreement whereby a total of 284,400,000 new ordinary shares of 25 pence each with an aggregate nominal value of £71,100,000 were placed with institutional investors at a price of 270 pence per share. The proceeds of the placing, after costs, were £760 million. The issue represented an increase of approximately 5 per cent in the issued share capital at the time. The capital was raised to allow Lloyds Banking Group to strengthen its capital and support the development of business strategies. ISSUED AND FULLY PAID PREFERENCE SHARES Since 2004, the Company has had in issue 400 6 per cent non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of 25 pence each. The shares, which are redeemable at the option of the Company at any time, carry the rights to a fixed rate non-cumulative preferential dividend at a rate of 6 per cent per annum; no dividend shall be payable in the event that the directors determine that prudent capital ratios would not be maintained if the dividend were paid. Upon winding up, the shares rank equally with any other preference shares issued by the Company. The holders of the 6 per cent non-cumulative redeemable preference shares held less than 0.1 per cent of the total share capital as at 31 December 2008. In accordance with IFRS, these shares are reported within liabilities. In addition, during 2006 the Company issued 600,000 Fixed/Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Callable Preference Shares of 25 pence each with a liquidation preference of £1,000 per share and 1,000,000 Fixed/Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Callable Preference Shares of 25 cents each with a liquidation preference of US$1,000 per share. Both issues of preference shares are perpetual, although the two issues can be redeemed at the option of the Company on or after 25 August 2015 and 14 November 2016 respectively and carry the right to non-cumulative dividends which are fixed until those first redemption dates. The terms of these two issues of preference shares are such that the Company cannot declare and pay a dividend on any other junior class of share (including the mandatory dividend on the 400 6 per cent non-cumulative redeemable preference shares mentioned above) until the coupon has been paid on these preference shares. As the Company is effectively committed to the payment of a coupon on these shares they are classified as liabilities on the balance sheet in accordance with IFRS (see note 40). The holders of the fixed/floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares, who held less than 0.1 per cent of the total share capital as at 31 December 2008, do not have the right to receive notice of, attend, speak or vote at any general meetings other than on resolutions relating to the variation or abrogation of any of the rights or restrictions attached to the preference shares or the winding up or dissolution of the Company or if, at the date of the notice of meeting, the dividend payable at the immediately preceding dividend payment date has failed to be declared and paid in full. Upon winding up, the fixed/floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares shall rank equally with the most senior class of preference shares and any other class of shares which are expressed to rank equally. Any repayment of the fixed/floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares would require prior notification to the FSA. The sterling fixed/floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares can be redeemed at the option of the Company on or after 25 August 2015; at this call date, dividends will be reset at a margin of 1.28 per cent over 3 month LIBOR. The US dollar fixed/floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares can be redeemed at the option of the Company on or after 14 November 2016; at this call date, dividends will be reset at a margin of 1.035 per cent over 3 month LIBOR. In certain circumstances, the fixed/floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares may be mandatorily exchanged for qualifying non-innovative tier 1 securities and in certain circumstances and subject to compliance with certain requirements, the fixed/floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares may be redeemed by the Company at certain times in the event that the FSA makes a decision that the preference shares can no longer qualify as non-innovative tier 1 capital. The Company may declare no dividend or a partial dividend on these preference shares; notwithstanding this discretion, in certain circumstances, the dividends on the fixed/floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares will be mandatorily payable if the preference shares cease to be eligible to qualify as regulatory capital and the Company is in compliance with relevant FSA regulations regarding capital adequacy. Dividends may be reduced if the distributable profits of the Company are insufficient to cover the payment in full of the dividends and also the payment in full of all other dividends on shares issued by the Company. These securities were issued during 2006 primarily to finance the development and expansion of the business of the Group. CHANGES IN AUTHORISED AND ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL SINCE THE END OF THE YEAR Increases in the authorised and issued share capital of the Company during January 2009 are discussed in note 52. F-60 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42 SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m At 1 January 1,298 1,266 1,170 Premium arising on private placement of ordinary shares (note 41) 689 — — Premium arising on issue of shares under share option schemes 109 32 96 At 31 December 2,096 1,298 1,266 43 OTHER RESERVES 2008 £m 2007£m 2006 £m Other reserves comprise: Merger reserve 343 343 343 Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets (2,982 ) (399 ) — Cash flow hedging reserve (15 ) (3 ) 12 Foreign currency translation reserve 178 (1 ) (19 ) (2,476 ) (60 ) 336 Movements in other reserves were as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Merger reserve At 1 January and 31 December 343 343 343 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets At 1 January (399 ) — 29 Exchange and other adjustments (541 ) (1 ) 2 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (2,721 ) (483 ) (10 ) Change in fair value attributable to minority interests 2 — — Deferred tax 566 1 — Current tax 94 46 — (2,059 ) (436 ) (10 ) Income statement transfers: Disposals (note 9) (19 ) (5 ) (22 ) Impairment 130 70 — Current tax (28 ) (21 ) 1 102 49 1 Other transfers (91 ) — — Current tax 25 — — (66 ) — — Disposal of businesses — (6 ) — At 31 December (2,982 ) (399 ) — F-61 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 OTHER RESERVES continued 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Cash flow hedging reserve At 1 January (3 ) 12 11 Change in fair value of hedging derivatives (33 ) (20 ) — Deferred tax 9 6 — (24 ) (14 ) — Income statement transfer (note 5) 16 (1 ) 1 Deferred tax (4 ) — — 12 (1 ) 1 At 31 December (15 ) (3 ) 12 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January (1 ) (19 ) 12 Currency translation differences arising in the year 2,533 257 (108 ) Foreign currency losses on net investment hedges (3,310 ) (342 ) 110 Amounts transferred to income statement in respect of hedge ineffectiveness 14 — — Current tax 584 103 (33 ) Deferred tax 358 — — (2,354 ) (239 ) 77 At 31 December 178 (1 ) (19 ) 44 RETAINED PROFITS 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m At 1 January 9,471 8,124 7,210 Profit for the year 819 3,289 2,803 Dividends (2,042 ) (1,957 ) (1,919 ) Purchase/sale of treasury shares 16 (1 ) (35 ) Employee share option schemes – value of employee services (4 ) 16 65 At 31 December 8,260 9,471 8,124 Retained profits are stated after deducting £40 million (2007: £75 million; 2006: £87 million) representing 15 million (2007: 15 million; 2006: 15 million) treasury shares held. Value of employee services includes a credit of £12 million (2007: £30 million; 2006: £31 million) reflecting the income statement charge in respect of SAYE and executive options, together with a related tax charge of £16 million (2007: tax charge £14 million; 2006: tax credit £34 million). Purchase/sale of treasury shares includes a credit of £31 million (2007: £29 million; 2006: £27 million) relating to the cost of other share scheme awards. 45 ORDINARY DIVIDENDS 2008 Pence per share 2007 Pence per share 2006 Pence per share 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Final dividend for previous year paid during the current year 24.7 23.5 23.5 1,394 1,325 1,316 Interim dividend 11.4 11.2 10.7 648 632 603 36.1 34.7 34.2 2,042 1,957 1,919 The directors do not propose to pay a final dividend (2007: 24.7 pence per share; 2006: 23.5 pence per share, which represented a total cost of £1,394 million in 2007 and £1,325 million in 2006). Bank of New York Nominees Limited have waived the right to all dividends on Lloyds Banking Group plc shares that they hold (holding at 31 December 2008 and at 31 December 2007: 10 shares). F-62 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 ORDINARY DIVIDENDS continued In addition, the trustees of the following holdings of Lloyds Banking Group plc shares in relation to employee share schemes retain the right to receive dividends but chose to waive their entitlement to the dividends on those shares as indicated: the Lloyds TSB Group Shareplan (holding at 31 December 2008: 972,151 shares, at 31 December 2007: 931,478 shares, waived right to all dividends), the Lloyds TSB Group Employee Share Ownership Trust (holding at 31 December 2008: 1,442,116 shares, at 31 December 2007: 1,935,141 shares, waived right to all dividends), Lloyds TSB Group Holdings (Jersey) Limited (holding at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007: 41,801 shares, waived right to all but a nominal amount of 1 penny in total) and the Lloyds TSB Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (holding at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007: 1,364 shares, waived right to all but a nominal amount of 1 penny in total). 46 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CHARGE TO THE INCOME STATEMENT The charge to the income statement is set out below: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Executive and SAYE schemes: Options granted in the year 8 6 6 Options granted in prior years 4 24 25 12 30 31 Share incentive plan: Shares granted in the year 10 12 12 Shares granted in prior years 21 17 15 31 29 27 43 59 58 SHARE BASED PAYMENT SCHEME DETAILS During the year ended 31 December 2008 the Group operated the following share based payment schemes, all of which are equity settled. EXECUTIVE SCHEMES The executive share option schemes were long-term incentive schemes available to certain senior executives of the Group, with grants usually made annually. Options were granted within limits set by the rules of the schemes relating to the number of shares under option and the price payable on the exercise of options. The last grant of executive options was made in August 2005. These options were granted without a performance multiplier and the maximum limit for the grant of options in normal circumstances was three times annual salary. Between April 2001 and August 2004, the aggregate value of the award based upon the market price at the date of grant could not exceed four times the executive’s annual remuneration and, normally, the limit for the grant of options to an executive in any one year would be equal to 1.5 times annual salary with a maximum performance multiplier of 3.5. Prior to 18 April 2001, the normal limit was equal to one year’s remuneration and no performance multiplier was applied. PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS FOR EXECUTIVE OPTIONS FOR OPTIONS GRANTED UP TO MARCH 2001 Options granted Performance conditions March 1998 – August 1999 Growth in earnings per share which is equal to the aggregate percentage change in the Retail Price Index plus two percentage points for each complete year of the relevant period together with a further condition that Lloyds Banking Group plc’s ranking based on total shareholder return (calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price) over the relevant period should be in the top fifty companies of the FTSE 100. March 2000 – March 2001 As for March 1998 – August 1999 except that there must have been growth in the earnings per share equal to the change in the Retail Price Index plus three percentage points for each complete year of the relevant period. In respect of options granted between March 1998 and March 2001, the relevant period for the performance conditions begins at the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant and will continue until the end of the third subsequent year following commencement or, if not met, the end of such later year in which the conditions are met. Once the conditions have been satisfied the options will remain exercisable without further conditions. If they are not satisfied by the tenth anniversary of the grant the option will lapse. FOR OPTIONS GRANTED FROM AUGUST 2001 TO AUGUST 2004 The performance condition is linked to the performance of Lloyds Banking Group plc’s total shareholder return (calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price) against a comparator group of 17 companies including Lloyds Banking Group plc. F-63 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued The performance condition is measured over a three year period commencing at the end of the financial year preceding the grant of the option and continuing until the end of the third subsequent year. If the performance condition is not then met, it will be measured at the end of the fourth financial year. If the condition has not then been met, the options will lapse. To meet the performance conditions, the Group’s ranking against the comparator group must be at least ninth. The full grant of options will only become exercisable if the Group is ranked first. A performance multiplier (of between nil and 100 per cent) will be applied below this level to calculate the number of shares in respect of which options granted to executive directors will become exercisable, and will be calculated on a sliding scale. If Lloyds Banking Group plc is ranked below median the options will not be exercisable. Options granted to senior executives other than executive directors are not so highly leveraged and, as a result, different performance multipliers are applied to their options. For the majority of executives, options are granted with the performance condition but no performance multiplier. Options granted in 2004 became exercisable as the performance condition was met on the re-test. The performance condition vested at 14 per cent for executive directors, 24 per cent for managing directors, and 100 per cent for all other executives. FOR OPTIONS GRANTED IN 2005 The same conditions apply as for grants made up to August 2004, except that: – the performance condition is linked to the performance of Lloyds Banking Group plc’s total shareholder return (calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price) against a comparator group of 15 companies including Lloyds Banking Group plc; – if the performance condition has not been met at the end of the third subsequent year, the options will lapse; and – the full grant of options becomes exercisable only if the Group is ranked in the top four places of the comparator group. A sliding scale applies between fourth and eighth positions. If Lloyds Banking Group is ranked below the median (ninth or below) the options will not be exercisable and will lapse. Options granted in 2005 became exercisable as the performance condition was met when tested. The performance condition vested at 82.5 per cent for all options granted. Movements in the number of share options outstanding under the Executive share option schemes during 2007 and 2008 are set out below: 2008 2007 Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Outstanding at 1 January 20,621,774 480.57 32,459,593 459.84 Exercised (137,431 ) 419.25 (267,650 ) 509.10 Forfeited (9,280,715 ) 470.02 (11,570,169 ) 421.76 Outstanding at 31 December 11,203,628 490.05 20,621,774 480.57 Exercisable at 31 December 9,132,197 453.77 423,300 876.37 The weighted average share price at the time that the options were exercised during 2008 was 453.42 pence (2007: 574.39 pence). The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 5.1 years (2006: 6.2 years). SAVE-AS-YOU-EARN SCHEMES Eligible employees may enter into contracts through the Save-As-You-Earn (SAYE) schemes to save up to £250 per month and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three or five years, have the option to use these savings within six months of the expiry of the fixed term to acquire shares in the Group at a price equal to 80 per cent of the market price at the date the options were granted. Grants in periods up to 31 December 2001 also had options exercising after seven years. Movements in the number of share options outstanding under the SAYE schemes are set out below: 2008 2007 Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Outstanding at 1 January 85,673,227 342.49 90,220,144 335.94 Granted 215,737,733 173.80 10,759,688 432.00 Exercised (40,612,608 ) 290.77 (9,473,792 ) 351.28 Forfeited (2,394,415 ) 388.11 (3,447,524 ) 363.45 Cancelled (62,963,491 ) 373.21 (1,822,417 ) 397.98 Expired (4,961,997 ) 311.47 (562,872 ) 547.46 Outstanding at 31 December 190,478,449 152.54 85,673,227 342.49 Exercisable at 31 December 3,157,524 332.12 1,560,472 459.01 F-64 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued The weighted average share price at the time that the options were exercised during 2008 was 370.29 pence (2007: 552.20 pence). The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 3.4 years (2007: 1.7 years). The weighted average fair value of SAYE options granted during the year was £0.61 (2007: £1.07). The values for the SAYE options have been determined using a standard Black-Scholes model. OTHER SHARE OPTION PLANS LLOYDS TSB GROUP EXECUTIVE SHARE PLAN 2003 The plan was adopted in December 2003 and under the plan share options may be granted to senior employees. Options granted to date under this scheme were granted specifically to facilitate recruitment. Options granted under this plan are not subject to any performance conditions. 2008 2007 Number ofoptions Weighted averageexercise price(pence) Number ofoptions Weighted averageexercise price(pence) Outstanding at 1 January 308,718 Nil 357,123 Nil Granted 681,931 Nil 214,444 Nil Exercised (117,236 ) Nil (203,170 ) Nil Forfeited (15,802 ) Nil (59,679 ) Nil Outstanding at 31 December 857,611 Nil 308,718 Nil The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was £2.92 (2007: £5.27). The weighted average share price at the time that the options were exercised during 2008 was 291.04 pence (2007: 539.77 pence). No options outstanding at 31 December were exercisable. The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of the year was 2.5 years (2007: 1.8 years). LLOYDS TSB GROUP EXECUTIVE SHARE PLAN 2005 This plan was adopted by the Group in 2005, specifically to facilitate the recruitment of Ms Dial. Ms Dial was the only participant in the plan. Options granted under this plan were not subject to any performance conditions and would have normally become exercisable if Ms Dial remained as an employee, and had not given notice of resignation, on 31 May 2008. On 28 March 2008, the Group announced that Ms Dial had decided to leave the Group and, in accordance with the terms of the plan, the options lapsed. 2008 2007 Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Outstanding at 1 January 242,825 Nil 242,825 Nil Lapsed (242,825 ) Nil — — Outstanding at 31 December — — 242,825 Nil The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the end of 2007 was 0.9 years. OTHER SHARE PLANS LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The Long-Term Incentive Plan introduced in 2006 is a long-term incentive scheme aimed at delivering shareholder value by linking the receipt of shares to an improvement in the performance of the Group over a three year period. Awards are made within limits set by the rules of the plan, with the limits determining the maximum number of shares that can be awarded equating to three times annual salary, in exceptional circumstances this may increase up to four times annual salary. The performance conditions for awards made in May and August 2006 are as follows: (i) For 50 per cent of the award (the ‘EPS Award’) – the percentage increase in earnings per share of the Group (on a compound annualised basis) over the relevant period must be at least an average of 6 percentage points per annum greater than the percentage increase (if any) in the Retail Price Index over the same period. If it is less than 3 per cent per annum the EPS Award will lapse. If the increase is more than 3 per cent but less than 6 per cent per annum then the proportion of shares released will be on a straight line basis between 17.5 per cent and 100 per cent. The relevant period commenced on 1 January 2006 and ended on 31 December 2008. (ii) For the other 50 per cent of the award (the ‘TSR Award’) – it will be necessary for the Group’s total shareholder return (calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price) to exceed the median of a comparator group (14 companies) over the relevant period by an average of 7.5 per cent per annum for the TSR Award to vest in full. 17.5 per cent of the TSR Award will vest where the Group’s total shareholder return is equal to median and vesting will occur on a straight line basis in between these points. Where the Group’s total shareholder return is below the median of the comparator group, the TSR Award will lapse. The relevant period commenced on 1 January 2006 and ended on 31 December 2008. F-65 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued The performance conditions for awards made in March and August 2007 are as follows: (i) For 50 per cent of the award (the ‘EPS Award’) – the performance condition is as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 1 January 2007 and ending on 31 December 2009. (ii) For the other 50 per cent of the award (the ‘TSR Award’) – the performance condition is as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 8 March 2007 (the date of the first award) and ending on 7 March 2010. The performance conditions for awards made in March, April, August and September 2008 are as follows: (i) For 50 per cent of the award (the ‘EPS Award’) – the performance condition is as described for May 2006 with the relevant performance period commencing on 1 January 2008 and ending on 31 December 2010. (ii) For the other 50 per cent of the award (the ‘TSR Award’) – the performance condition is as described for May 2006, except that the comparator group comprises of 13 companies, with the relevant performance period commencing on 6 March 2008 (the date of the first award) and ending on 5 March 2011. 2008 Number of shares 2007 Number of shares Outstanding at 1 January 13,209,081 5,788,108 Granted 10,519,609 7,884,787 Forfeited (1,491,408 ) (463,814 ) Outstanding at 31 December 22,237,282 13,209,081 The fair value of the share awards granted in 2008 was £2.28 (2007: £3.13). PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN Under the performance share plan, introduced during 2005, participating executives will be eligible for an award of free shares, known as performance shares, to match the bonus shares awarded as part of their 2004 and 2005 bonus. The maximum match will be two performance shares for each bonus share, awarded at the end of a three year period. The actual number of shares awarded will depend on the Group’s total shareholder return performance measured over a three year period, compared to other companies in the comparator group. The maximum of two performance shares for each bonus share will be awarded only if the Group’s total shareholder return performance places it first in the comparator group; one performance share for each bonus share will be granted if the Group is placed fifth; and one performance share for every two bonus shares if the Group is placed eighth (median). Between first and fifth position, and fifth and eighth position, sliding scales will apply. If the total shareholder return performance is below median, no performance shares will be awarded. There will be no retest. Whilst income tax is deducted from the bonus before deferral into the plan, where a match of performance shares is justified, these shares will be awarded as if income tax had not been deducted. The performance condition attached to the March 2005 award was met, with the Group ranked in fifth place. Bonus shares were released on 18 March 2008, with one performance share granted for each bonus share. Performance shares were released on 10 April 2008. 2008 Number of shares 2007 Number of shares Outstanding at 1 January 1,767,594 1,849,102 Forfeited (74,691 ) (81,508 ) Lapsed (375,790 ) — Released (375,789 ) — Outstanding at 31 December 941,324 1,767,594 The weighted average share price at the date the shares were released during 2008 was 446.13 pence. F-66 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued The ranges of exercise prices, weighted average exercise prices, weighted average remaining contractual life and number of options outstanding for the option schemes were as follows: Executive schemes SAYE schemes Other share option plans Weighted average exercise price (pence) Weighted average remaining life (years) Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Weighted average remaining life (years) Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Weighted average remaining life (years) Number of options 31 December 2008 Exercise price range £0 to £1 — — — — — — Nil 2.5 857,611 £1 to £2 — — — 139.00 3.5 178,932,603 — — — £2 to £3 — — — 284.00 0.4 941,414 — — — £3 to £4 — — — 344.75 1.9 7,366,320 — — — £4 to £5 453.77 5.9 9,132,197 423.49 2.0 3,200,532 — — — £5 to £6 551.25 1.2 741,905 588.50 0.3 37,580 — — — £6 to £7 652.30 2.1 997,326 — — — — — — £7 to £8 — — — — — — — — — £8 to £9 863.63 0.3 332,200 — — — — — — Executive schemes SAYE schemes Other share option plans Weighted average exercise price (pence) Weighted average remaining life (years) Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Weighted average remaining life (years) Number of options Weighted average exercise price (pence) Weighted average remaining life (years) Number of options 31 December 2007 Exercise price range £0 to £2 — — — — — — Nil 1.4 551,543 £2 to £3 — — — 284.00 0.9 42,651,925 — — — £3 to £4 — — — 353.10 1.9 15,775,539 — — — £4 to £5 449.34 6.8 17,898,897 424.23 2.9 26,525,262 — — — £5 to £6 551.09 2.2 815,965 563.65 0.1 720,501 — — — £6 to £7 652.47 3.1 1,114,912 — — — — — — £7 to £8 — — — — — — — — — £8 to £9 871.54 0.7 792,000 — — — — — — The fair value calculations at 31 December 2008 for grants made in the year are based on the following assumptions: SAYE Other option schemes Other share plans Risk-free interest rate 3.14 % 3.90 % 4.04 % Expected life 3.2 years 2.9 years 3.0 years Expected volatility 40 % 29 % 23 % Expected dividend yield 3.5 % 7.3 % 8.9 % Weighted average share price £2.17 £3.67 £4.24 Weighted average exercise price £1.74 Nil Nil Expected forfeitures 6 % 4 % 4 % Expected volatility is a measure of the amount by which the Group’s shares are expected to fluctuate during the life of an option. The expected volatility is estimated based on the historical volatility of the closing daily share price over the most recent period that is commensurate with the expected life of the option. The historical volatility is compared to the implied volatility generated from market traded options in the Group’s shares to assess the reasonableness of the historical volatility and adjustments made where appropriate. F-67 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46 SHARE BASED PAYMENTS continued SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN FREE SHARES An award of shares may be made annually to employees based on a percentage of each employee’s salary in the preceding year up to a maximum of £3,000. The percentage is normally announced concurrently with the Group’s annual results and the price of the shares awarded is announced at the time of award. The shares awarded are held in trust for a mandatory period of three years on the employee’s behalf. The award is subject to a non-market based condition: if an employee leaves the Group within this three year period for other than a ‘good’ reason, all of the shares awarded will be forfeited (for awards made up to April 2005, only a portion of the shares would be forfeited: 75 per cent within one year of the award, 50 per cent within two years and 25 per cent within three years). The number of shares awarded relating to free shares in 2008 was 8,862,823 (2007: 6,784,201), with an average fair value of £4.38 (2007: £5.82), based on the market price at the date of award. MATCHING SHARES The Group undertakes to match shares purchased by employees up to the value of £30 per month; these shares are held in trust for a mandatory period of three years on the employees’ behalf. The award is subject to a non-market based condition: if an employee leaves within this three year period for other than a ‘good’ reason or the accompanying partnership shares are sold within that time, 100 per cent of the matching shares are forfeited (or the portion relating to the shares sold). The number of shares awarded relating to matching shares in 2008 was 4,475,264 (2007: 2,073,018), with an average fair value of £2.56 (2007: £5.49), based on market prices at the date of award. 47 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of an entity; the Group’s key management personnel are the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc group executive committee together with its non-executive directors. The table below details, on an aggregated basis, key management personnel compensation: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Compensation Salaries and other short-term benefits 8 15 14 Post-employment benefits 1 4 3 Termination benefits — — — Share based payments 4 4 3 13 23 20 In addition, Mr Fairey retired as at 30 June 2008 and received his non approved benefit entitlement in the form of a lump sum in accordance with the scheme rules. A tax free amount of £4,523,000 was paid from the FURBS, with a further taxable amount of £2,446,000 made by the Group from provisions set aside. The total amount of £6,969,000 covered the Group’s liability to provide benefits in respect of salary in excess of the earnings cap. 2008 million 2007 million 2006 million Share options At 1 January 7 11 12 Granted (including options of appointed directors) — — — Exercised/lapsed (including options of former directors) (5 ) (4 ) (1 ) At 31 December 2 7 11 2008 million 2007 million 2006 million Share incentive plans At 1 January 6 4 1 Granted (including entitlements of appointed directors) 3 2 3 Exercised/lapsed (including entitlements of former directors) (2 ) — — At 31 December 7 6 4 F-68 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued The tables below detail, on an aggregated basis, balances outstanding at the year end and related income and expense, together with information relating to other transactions between the Group and its key management personnel: 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Loans At 1 January 2 2 3 Advanced 2 1 — Repayments (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) At 31 December 3 2 2 The loans are on both a secured and unsecured basis and are expected to be settled in cash. The loans attracted interest rates of between 2.14 per cent and 34.01 per cent in 2008 (2007: 4.95 per cent and 30.0 per cent; 2006: 5.1 per cent and 19.9 per cent). No provisions have been recognised in respect of loans given to key management personnel (2007: £nil). 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Deposits At 1 January 5 5 5 Placed 27 21 12 Withdrawn (26 ) (21 ) (12 ) At 31 December 6 5 5 Deposits placed by key management personnel attracted interest rates of up to 6.0 per cent (2007: 8.0 per cent; 2006: 5.2 per cent). At 31 December 2008, the Group did not provide any guarantees in respect of key management personnel (2007: £6,154 in respect of one director; 2006: £19,744 in respect of one director). At 31 December 2008, transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into by the Group’s banking subsidiaries with directors and connected persons included amounts outstanding in respect of loans and credit card transactions of £3 million with eight directors and six connected persons (2007: £2 million with five directors and three connected persons; 2006: £2 million with four directors and four connected persons). SUBSIDIARIES Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in note 8 to the parent company financial statements. In accordance with IAS 27, transactions and balances with subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation. OTHER RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES At 31 December 2008, the Group’s pension funds had call deposits with Lloyds TSB Bank plc amounting to £23 million (2007: £23 million). The Group manages 105 (2007: 107) Open Ended Investment Companies (OEICs), and of these 47 (2007: 40) are consolidated. The Group invested £455 million (2007: £1,961 million) and redeemed £343 million (2007: £1,526 million) in the unconsolidated OEICs during the year and had investments, at fair value, of £2,661 million (2007: £2,233 million) at 31 December. The Group earned fees of £206 million from the unconsolidated OEICs (2007: £200 million). The Company held no investments in OEICs at any time during 2007 or 2008. The Group has a number of associates held by its venture capital business that it accounts for at fair value through profit or loss. At 31 December 2008, these companies had total assets of approximately £5,838 million (2007: £3,184 million ), total liabilities of approximately £5,780 million (2007: £3,182 million) and for the year ended 31 December 2008 had turnover of £2,088 million (2007: £2,136 million) and made a net loss of approximately £80 million (2007: net profit of £9 million). In addition, the Group has provided £825 million (2007: £609 million) of financing to these companies on which it received £46 million (2007: £23 million) of interest income in the year. 48 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Group has provided information relating to its review of historic US dollar payments involving countries, persons or entities subject to US economic sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) to a number of authorities including OFAC, the US Department of Justice and the New York County District Attorney’s Office which, along with other authorities, have been reported to be conducting a broader review of sanctions compliance by non-US financial institutions. At 31 December 2008, the discussions with those authorities had advanced towards resolution of their investigations and the Group held an accrual of £180 million in respect of this matter. On 9 January 2009, the Group announced that it had reached a settlement with both the US Department of Justice and the New York County District Attorney’s Office in relation to their investigations. The settlement documentation contains details of the results of the investigations including the identification of certain activities relating to Iran, Sudan and Libya which the Group conducted during the relevant period. The provision made by the Group in respect of this matter during 2008 was hedged into US dollars at the time and fully covers the settlement amount. The Group is continuing discussions with OFAC regarding the terms of the resolution of its investigation. OFAC has confirmed to the Group that the amount paid to the US Department of Justice and the New York County District Attorney’s Office will be credited towards satisfying any penalty it imposes. The Group does not currently believe that any additional liability requiring provision will arise following the conclusion of the discussions with OFAC. The Group does not anticipate any further enforcement actions as to these issues. F-69 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 48 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS continued On 27 July 2007, following agreement between the OFT and a number of UK financial institutions, the OFT issued High Court legal proceedings against those institutions, including Lloyds TSB Bank plc, to determine the legal status and enforceability of certain of the charges applied to their personal customers in relation to requests for unplanned overdrafts. On 24 April 2008, the High Court determined, in relation to the current terms and conditions of those financial institutions (including Lloyds TSB Bank plc), that the relevant charges are not capable of amounting to penalties but that they are assessable for fairness under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999. On 23 May 2008, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, along with the other relevant financial institutions, was given permission to appeal the finding that unplanned overdraft charges are assessable for fairness. The appeal hearing commenced on 28 October 2008 and concluded on 5 November 2008. On 26 February 2009, the Court of Appeal dismissed the banks’ appeal and held that the charges are assessable for fairness. The banks will now be applying to the House of Lords for permission to appeal this judgment. A further hearing was held on 7 to 9 July 2008 to consider whether those financial institutions’ historic terms and conditions are capable of being penalties, and to consider whether their historic terms are assessable for fairness. On 21 January 2009, the court confirmed that the relevant charges under Lloyds TSB Bank plc’s historic terms and conditions are not capable of being penalties but are assessable for fairness, to the extent that the bank’s contracts with customers included the applicable charging terms. The issue of whether the charges are actually fair will be determined at subsequent hearings. If various appeals are pursued, the proceedings may take a number of years to conclude. Cases before the Financial Ombudsman Service and the County Courts are currently stayed pending the outcome of the legal proceedings initiated by the OFT. Lloyds Banking Group intends to continue to defend its position strongly. Accordingly, no provision in relation to the outcome of this litigation has been made. Depending on the High Court’s determinations, a range of outcomes is possible, some of which could have a significant financial impact on the Group. The ultimate impact of the litigation on the Group can only be known at its conclusion. In addition, during the ordinary course of business the Group is subject to threatened or actual legal proceedings. All such material cases are periodically reassessed, with the assistance of external professional advisers where appropriate, to determine the likelihood of the Group incurring a liability. In those instances where it is concluded that it is more likely than not that a payment will be made, a provision is established to management’s best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at the relevant balance sheet date. In some cases it will not be possible to form a view, either because the facts are unclear or because further time is needed properly to assess the merits of the case. No provisions are held against such cases; however the Group does not currently expect the final outcome of these cases to have a material adverse effect on its financial position. THE FINANCIAL SERVICES COMPENSATION SCHEME The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is the UK’s statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms and pays compensation if a firm is unable to pay claims against it. The FSCS has borrowings from HM Treasury to fund the compensation costs associated with the institutions that have failed in 2008 and will receive the receipts from asset sales, surplus cash flow and other recoveries from these institutions in the future. The FSCS fulfils its obligations by raising management expenses levies, which include amounts to cover the interest on its borrowings, and compensation levies on the industry, each deposit-taking institution contributing in proportion to its share of total protected deposits. In 2008, the Group has accrued £122 million in respect of its current obligation to meet management expenses levies. If the FSCS does not receive sufficient funds from the failed institutions to repay HM Treasury in full, it will raise compensation levies. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the quantum or timing of any shortfall resulting from the cash flows received from the failed institutions and, accordingly, no provision for compensation levies, which could be significant, has been made in these financial statements. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS ARISING FROM THE BANKING BUSINESS Acceptances and endorsements arise where Lloyds Banking Group agrees to guarantee payment on a negotiable instrument drawn up by a customer. Other items serving as direct credit substitutes include standby letters of credit, or other irrevocable obligations, where Lloyds Banking Group has an irrevocable obligation to pay a third party beneficiary if the customer fails to repay an outstanding commitment; they also include acceptances drawn under letters of credit or similar facilities where the acceptor does not have specific title to an identifiable underlying shipment of goods. Performance bonds and other transaction-related contingencies (which include bid or tender bonds, advance payment guarantees, VAT Customs & Excise bonds and standby letters of credit relating to a particular contract or non-financial transaction) are undertakings where the requirement to make payment under the guarantee depends on the outcome of a future event. Lloyds Banking Group’s maximum exposure to loss is represented by the contractual nominal amount detailed in the table below. Consideration has not been taken of any possible recoveries from customers for payments made in respect of such guarantees under recourse provisions or from collateral held. F-70 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 48 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS continued 2008 £m 2007 £m Contingent liabilities Acceptances and endorsements 49 40 Other: Other items serving as direct credit substitutes 1,870 1,095 Performance bonds and other transaction-related contingencies 2,850 2,429 4,720 3,524 4,769 3,564 The contingent liabilities of the Group, as detailed above, arise in the normal course of its banking business and it is not practicable to quantify their future financial effect. 2008 £m 2007 £m Commitments Documentary credits and other short-term trade-related transactions 319 306 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 613 463 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: Less than 1 year original maturity: Mortgage offers made 3,056 4,639 Other commitments 46,006 52,791 49,062 57,430 1 year or over original maturity 31,761 32,165 81,755 90,364 Of the amounts shown above in respect of undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend, £46,890 million (2007: £53,036 million) was irrevocable. Included in commitments to lend above are not-yet-syndicated leveraged loan underwriting commitments which amounted to £931 million (2007: £1,158 million). All of the underlying assets are performing satisfactorily. OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS Where a Group company is the lessee the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable premises operating leases are as follows: 2008 £m 2007 £m Not later than 1 year 216 212 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 647 677 Later than 5 years 774 764 1,637 1,653 Operating lease payments represent rental payable by the Group for certain of its properties. Some of these operating lease arrangements have renewal options and rent escalation clauses, although the effect of these is not material. No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS Excluding commitments in respect of investment property (see note 22), capital expenditure contracted but not provided for at 31 December 2008 amounted to £92 million (2007: £102 million). Of this amount, £85 million (2007: £96 million) related to assets to be leased to customers under operating leases. The Group’s management is confident that future net revenues and funding will be sufficient to cover these commitments. F-71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT As a bancassurer, financial instruments are fundamental to the Group’s activities and, as a consequence, the risks associated with financial instruments represent a significant component of the risks faced by the Group. The primary risks affecting the Group through its use of financial instruments are: credit risk; market risk, which includes interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk; and liquidity risk. Information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and the Group’s management of capital can be found on pages 43 to 76. The following additional disclosures, which provide quantitative information about the risks within financial instruments held or issued by the Group, should be read in conjunction with that earlier information. MEASUREMENT BASIS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The accounting policies in note 2 describe how different classes of financial instruments are measured, and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised. The following table analyses the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category and by balance sheet heading. At fair value through profit or loss Derivatives designated as hedging instruments £m Held for trading £m Designated upon initial recognition £m Available- for-sale £m Loans and receivables £m Held at amortised cost £m Insurance contracts £m Total £m As at 31 December 2008 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks — — — — — 5,008 — 5,008 Items in the course of collection from banks — — — — — 946 — 946 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss — 857 44,207 — — — — 45,064 Derivative financial instruments 435 28,449 — — — — — 28,884 Loans and advances to banks — — — — 40,758 — — 40,758 Loans and advances to customers — — — — 242,735 — — 242,735 Available-for-sale financial assets — — — 55,707 — — — 55,707 Total financial assets 435 29,306 44,207 55,707 283,493 5,954 — 419,102 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks — — — — — 66,514 — 66,514 Customer accounts — — — — — 170,938 — 170,938 Items in course of transmission to banks — — — — — 508 — 508 Trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss — 6 6,748 — — — — 6,754 Derivative financial instruments 4,169 22,723 — — — — — 26,892 Debt securities in issue — — — — — 75,710 — 75,710 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts — — — — — — 33,792 33,792 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts — — — — — — 14,243 14,243 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses — — — — — — 270 270 Subordinated liabilities — — — — — 17,256 — 17,256 Total financial liabilities 4,169 22,729 6,748 — — 330,926 48,305 412,877 F-72 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued At fair value through profit or loss Derivatives designated as hedging instruments £m Held for trading £m Designated upon initial recognition £m Available- for-sale £m Loans and receivables £m Held at amortised cost £m Insurance contracts £m Total £m As at 31 December 2007 Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks — — — — — 4,330 — 4,330 Items in the course of collection from banks — — — — — 1,242 — 1,242 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss — 4,663 53,248 — — — — 57,911 Derivative financial instruments 264 8,395 — — — — — 8,659 Loans and advances to banks — — — — 34,845 — — 34,845 Loans and advances to customers — — — — 209,814 — — 209,814 Available-for-sale financial assets — — — 20,196 — — — 20,196 Total financial assets 264 13,058 53,248 20,196 244,659 5,572 — 336,997 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks — — — — — 39,091 — 39,091 Customer accounts — — — — — 156,555 — 156,555 Items in course of transmission to banks — — — — — 668 — 668 Trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss — 99 3,107 — — — — 3,206 Derivative financial instruments 800 6,782 — — — — — 7,582 Debt securities in issue — — — — — 51,572 — 51,572 Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts — — — — — — 38,063 38,063 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts — — — — — — 18,197 18,197 Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses — — — — — — 554 554 Subordinated liabilities — — — — — 11,958 — 11,958 Total financial liabilities 800 6,881 3,107 — — 259,844 56,814 327,446 RECLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS In accordance with the amendment to lAS 39 as disclosed in note 2, the Group reviewed the categorisation of its assets classified as held for trading and available-for-sale financial assets. On the basis that there was no longer an active market for some of those assets, which are therefore more appropriately managed as loans, the Group reclassified £2,993 million of assets classified as held for trading (measured at fair value through profit or loss immediately prior to reclassification) to loans and receivables with effect from 1 July 2008 and £437 million of assets classified as available-for-sale financial assets (measured at fair value through equity) to loans and receivables with effect from 1 November 2008. At the time of these transfers, the Group had the intention and ability to hold them for the foreseeable future or until maturity. HELD FOR TRADING TO LOANS AND RECEIVABLES In respect of the £2,993 million of assets transferred with effect from 1 July 2008, a loss of £172 million was recognised in the income statement for the six months to 30 June 2008 (year to 31 December 2007: £132 million) while they were classified as held for trading. If the assets had not been transferred and had been kept as held for trading, a loss of £347 million would have been recognised in the income statement for the six months to 31 December 2008 within net trading income. Since their reclassification to loans and receivables, a net credit of £31 million has been recognised in the income statement for the six months to 31 December 2008 within net interest income and a charge of £158 million within impairment. The weighted average effective interest rate of the assets transferred was 6.3 per cent with expected recoverable cash flows of £3,524 million. F-73 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS TO LOANS AND RECEIVABLES In respect of the £437 million of assets transferred with effect from 1 November 2008, a negative valuation movement of £261 million, including exchange movements, was recognised in the revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets for the ten months to 31 October 2008 while they were classified as available-for-sale financial assets. If the assets had not been transferred and had been kept as available-for-sale financial assets £3 million would have been recognised in interest income and £209 million would have been recognised in impairment in the income statement for the two months to 31 December 2008. Since their reclassification to loans and receivables, an amount of £3 million has been recognised in the income statement for the two months to 31 December 2008 within interest income and a further £23 million within impairment. The weighted average effective interest rate of the assets transferred was 10.9 per cent with expected recoverable cash flows of £837 million. For the year ended 31 December 2007, a negative valuation movement of £34 million, including exchange movements, was recognised in the revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale financial assets and £32 million was recognised in interest income. INTEREST RATE RISK In the Group’s retail banking business interest rate risk arises from the different repricing characteristics of the assets and liabilities. Liabilities are either insensitive to interest rate movements, for example interest free or very low interest customer deposits, or are sensitive to interest rate changes but bear rates which may be varied at the Group’s discretion and that for competitive reasons generally reflect changes in the Bank of England’s base rate. There are a relatively small volume of deposits whose rate is contractually fixed for their term to maturity. Many banking assets are sensitive to interest rate movements; there is a large volume of managed rate assets such as variable rate mortgages which may be considered as a natural offset to the interest rate risk arising from the managed rate liabilities. However a significant proportion of the Group’s lending assets, for example personal loans and mortgages, bear interest rates which are contractually fixed for periods of up to five years or longer. The Group establishes two types of hedge accounting relationships for interest rate risk: fair value hedges and cash flow hedges. The Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk on its fixed rate customer loans, its fixed rate customer deposits and the majority of its subordinated debt, and to cash flow interest rate risk on its variable rate loans and deposits together with its floating rate subordinated debt. The majority of the Group’s hedge accounting relationships are fair value hedges where interest rate swaps are used to hedge the interest rate risk inherent in the fixed rate mortgage portfolio. At 31 December 2008 the aggregate notional principal of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges was £37,243 million (2007: £50,734 million) with a net fair value liability of £1,231 million (2007: £197 million) (see note 17). The losses on the hedging instruments were £584 million (2007: losses of £233 million). The gains on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk were £426 million (2007: gains of £211 million). In addition the Group has a small number of cash flow hedges which are primarily used to hedge the variability in the cost of funding within the wholesale business. These cash flows are expected to occur over the next six years and the hedge accounting adjustments will be reported in the income statement as the cash flows arise. The notional principal of the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges at 31 December 2008 was £867 million (2007: £630 million) with a net fair value liability of £90 million (2007: £23 million) (see note 17). In 2008, there is no ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement that arises from cash flow hedges (2007: nil). There were no transactions for which cash flow hedge accounting had to be ceased in 2008 or 2007 as a result of the highly probable cash flows no longer being expected to occur. CURRENCY RISK Foreign exchange exposures comprise those originating in treasury trading activities and structural foreign exchange exposures, which arise from investment in the Group’s overseas operations. The corporate and retail businesses incur foreign exchange risk in the course of providing services to their customers. All non-structural foreign exchange exposures in the non-trading book are transferred to the trading area where they are monitored and controlled. These risks reside in the authorised trading centres who are allocated exposure limits. The limits are monitored daily by the local centres and reported to Wholesale and International Banking Market and Liquidity Risk. Associated VaR and the closing, average, maximum and minimum for 2007 and 2008 are disclosed on page 60. Risk arises from the Group’s investments in its overseas operations. The Group’s structural foreign currency exposure is represented by the net asset value of the foreign currency equity and subordinated debt investments in its subsidiaries and branches. Gains or losses on structural foreign currency exposures are taken to reserves. The Group hedges part of the currency translation risk of the net investment in certain foreign operations using cross currency swaps. At 31 December 2008 the aggregate notional principal of these cross currency swaps was £6,318 million (2007: £5,302 million) with a net fair value liability of £2,413 million (2007: liability of £316 million) (see note 17) and they were designated on an after-tax basis as hedges of net investments in foreign operations. In 2008, ineffectiveness of £14 million before tax and £10 million after tax (2007: nil) was recognised in the income statement arising from net investment hedges. The Group’s main overseas operations are in the Americas, Asia and Europe. Details of the Group’s structural foreign currency exposures, after net investment hedges, are as follows: F-74 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 2008 2007 £m £m Functional currency of Group operations Euro 133 95 US dollar (907 ) 7 Swiss franc: Gross exposure 2,784 1,945 Net investment hedge (2,663 ) (1,875 ) 121 70 Japanese yen: Gross exposure 3,667 2,148 Net investment hedge (3,645 ) (2,136 ) 22 12 Other non-sterling 296 196 (335 ) 380 CREDIT RISK The Group’s credit risk exposure arises predominantly in the United Kingdom and the European Union. The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group in the event of other parties failing to perform their obligations is detailed below. No account is taken of any collateral held and the maximum exposure to loss is considered to be the balance sheet carrying amount or, for non-derivative off-balance sheet transactions and financial guarantees, their contractual nominal amounts. 2008 2007 £m £m Loans and advances to banks 40,916 34,845 Loans and advances to customers 246,304 212,222 Deposit amounts available for offset1 (4,837 ) (6,206 ) Impairment losses (3,727 ) (2,408 ) 278,656 238,453 Available-for-sale debt securities and treasury and other bills 55,666 20,167 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 21,790 26,165 Derivative assets, before netting 28,884 8,659 Amounts available for offset under master netting arrangements1 (10,598 ) (3,287 ) 18,286 5,372 Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 385 350 Financial guarantees 10,382 9,753 Irrevocable loan commitments and other credit-related contingencies2 51,659 56,600 Maximum credit risk exposure 436,824 356,860 Maximum credit risk exposure before offset items 452,259 366,353 1 Deposit amounts available for offset and amounts available for offset under master netting arrangements do not meet the criteria under IAS 32 to enable loans and advances and derivative assets respectively to be presented net of these balances in the financial statements. 2 See note 48 – Contingent liabilities and commitments for further information. A general description of collateral held in respect of financial instruments is disclosed on page 51. Loans and advances to banks – the Group may require collateral before entering into a credit commitment with another bank, depending on the type of the financial product and the counterparty involved, and netting agreements are obtained whenever possible and to the extent that such agreements are legally enforceable. F-75 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Available-for-sale debt securities, treasury and other bills, and trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – the credit quality of the Group’s available-for-sale debt securities, treasury and other bills, and the majority of the Group’s trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held is set out below. An analysis of trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is included in note 16 and a similar analysis for available-for-sale financial assets is included in note 21. The Group’s non-participating investment contracts are all unit-linked. Movements in the fair values of trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss which back those investment contracts, including movements arising from credit risk, are borne by the contract holders. Derivative assets – the Group reduces exposure to credit risk by using master netting agreements and by obtaining cash collateral. An analysis of derivative assets is given in note 17. Of the net derivative assets of £18,286 million (2007: £5,372 million), cash collateral of £2,970 million (2007: £2,004 million) was held and a further £5,840 million was due from OECD banks (2007: £1,459 million). Assets arising from reinsurance contracts held – of the assets arising from reinsurance contracts held at 31 December 2008 of £385 million (2007: £350 million), £380 million (2007: £341 million) were due from insurers with a credit rating of AA or above. Financial guarantees – these represent undertakings that the Group will meet a customer’s obligation to third parties if the customer fails to do so. Commitments to extend credit represent unused portions of authorisations to extend credit in the form of loans, guarantees or letters of credit. The Group is theoretically exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total guarantees or unused commitments, however, the likely amount of loss is expected to be significantly less; most commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards. Reverse repo and repo transactions – for reverse repo transactions which are accounted for as collateralised loans, it is the Group’s policy to seek collateral which is at least equal to the amount loaned. At 31 December 2008, the fair value of collateral accepted under reverse repo transactions that the Group is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge was £5,858 million (2007: £10,300 million). Of this, £5,855 million (2007: £10,299 million) was sold or repledged as at 31 December 2008. The fair value of collateral pledged in respect of repo transactions, accounted for as secured borrowings, where the secured party is permitted by contract or custom to repledge was £5,734 million (2007: £768 million). LOANS AND ADVANCES Loans and advances designated at fair value through profit or loss £m Loans and advances to banks £m Loans and advances to customers Retail – mortgages £m Retail – other £m Wholesale £m Total £m 31 December 2008 Neither past due nor impaired 110,148 33,571 89,208 232,927 608 40,741 Past due but not impaired 3,134 1,146 555 4,835 — 17 Impaired – no provision required 479 150 1,253 1,882 — — – provision held 882 4,327 1,451 6,660 — 158 Gross 114,643 39,194 92,467 246,304 608 40,916 Allowance for impairment losses (note 20) (186 ) (2,345 ) (1,038 ) (3,569 ) — (158 ) Net 114,457 36,849 91,429 242,735 608 40,758 31 December 2007 Neither past due nor impaired 99,828 29,850 73,475 203,153 1,189 34,845 Past due but not impaired 2,153 966 639 3,758 — — Impaired – no provision required 415 100 293 808 — — – provision held 343 3,600 560 4,503 — — Gross 102,739 34,516 74,967 212,222 1,189 34,845 Allowance for impairment losses (note 20) (37 ) (2,029 ) (342 ) (2,408 ) — — Net 102,702 32,487 74,625 209,814 1,189 34,845 The analysis of lending between retail and wholesale has been prepared based upon the type of exposure and not the business segment in which the exposure is recorded. Included within retail are exposures to personal customers and small businesses, whilst included within wholesale are exposures to corporate customers and other large institutions. F-76 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued LOANS AND ADVANCES WHICH ARE NEITHER PAST DUE NOR IMPAIRED Loans and advances designated at fair value through profit or loss £m Loans and advances to banks £m Loans and advances to customers Retail – mortgages £m Retail – other £m Wholesale £m Total £m 31 December 2008 Good quality 109,437 21,251 50,718 129 40,295 Satisfactory quality 643 9,305 34,559 411 192 Lower quality — 900 3,444 56 240 Below standard, but not impaired 68 2,115 487 12 14 Total 110,148 33,571 89,208 232,927 608 40,741 31 December 2007 Good quality 99,407 18,157 46,240 191 34,647 Satisfactory quality 378 8,964 25,013 670 190 Lower quality 1 665 2,034 327 7 Below standard, but not impaired 42 2,064 188 1 1 Total 99,828 29,850 73,475 203,153 1,189 34,845 The definitions of good quality, satisfactory quality, lower quality and below standard, but not impaired applying to retail and wholesale are not the same, reflecting the different characteristics of these exposures and the way they are managed internally, and consequently totals are not provided. Wholesale lending has been classified using internal probability of default rating models mapped so that they are comparable to external credit ratings. Good quality lending comprises the lower assessed default probabilities, with other classifications reflecting progressively higher default risk. Classifications of retail lending incorporate expected recovery levels for mortgages, as well as probabilities of default assessed using internal rating models. Good quality lending includes the lower assessed default probabilities and all loans with low expected losses in the event of default, with other categories reflecting progressively higher risks and lower expected recoveries. LOANS AND ADVANCES WHICH ARE PAST DUE BUT NOT IMPAIRED Loans and advances designated at fair value through profit or loss £m Loans and advances to banks £m Loans and advances to customers Retail – mortgages £m Retail – other £m Wholesale £m Total £m 31 December 2008 0-30 days 1,527 853 289 2,669 — — 30-60 days 633 259 90 982 — — 60-90 days 424 32 70 526 — 17 90-180 days 549 2 77 628 — — Over 180 days 1 — 29 30 — — Total 3,134 1,146 555 4,835 — 17 Fair value of collateral held 2,637 n/a n/a n/a 31 December 2007 0-30 days 1,123 781 266 2,170 — — 30-60 days 445 155 107 707 — — 60-90 days 260 29 129 418 — — 90-180 days 325 1 67 393 — — Over 180 days — — 70 70 — — Total 2,153 966 639 3,758 — — Fair value of collateral held 2,111 n/a n/a n/a A financial asset is ‘past due’ if a counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due. F-77 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Collateral held against retail mortgage lending is principally comprised of residential properties; their fair value has been estimated based upon the last actual valuation, adjusted to take into account subsequent movements in house prices, after making allowance for indexation error and dilapidations. The resulting valuation has been limited to the principal amount of the outstanding advance in order to provide a clearer representation of the Group’s credit exposure. Lending decisions are based on an obligor’s ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided. Collateral values for non-mortgage lending are assessed more rigorously at the time of loan origination or when taking enforcement action and may fluctuate, as in the case of floating charges, according to the level of assets held by the customer. Whilst collateral is reviewed on a regular basis in accordance with business unit credit policy, this varies according to the type of lending and collateral involved. It is therefore not practicable to estimate and aggregate current fair values of collateral for non-mortgage lending. RENEGOTIATED LOANS AND ADVANCES Loans and advances that were renegotiated during the year and that would otherwise have been past due or impaired at 31 December 2008 totalled £144 million (2007: £579 million). REPOSSESSED COLLATERAL 2008 2007 £m £m Residential property 221 73 Other 26 9 Total 247 82 The Group does not take physical possession of properties or other assets held as collateral and uses external agents to realise the value as soon as practicable, generally at auction, to settle indebtedness. Any surplus funds are returned to the borrower or are otherwise dealt with in accordance with appropriate insolvency regulations. LOAN TO VALUE RATIO OF MORTGAGE LENDING 2008 2007 £m £m Analysis by loan to value ratio of the Group’s residential mortgage lending which is neither past due nor impaired: Less than 70 per cent 55,040 66,716 70 per cent to 80 per cent 15,812 15,690 80 per cent to 90 per cent 15,954 12,102 Greater than 90 per cent 23,342 5,320 Total 110,148 99,828 F-78 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Debt securities, treasury and other bills – analysis by credit rating: Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower Not rated Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m As at 31 December 2008 Debt securities held at fair value through profit or loss Trading assets: Government securities 38 — — — — — 38 Corporate and other debt securities 76 187 38 68 87 80 536 Total held as trading assets 114 187 38 68 87 80 574 Other assets held at fair value through profit or loss: Government securities 7,025 45 138 1 — 117 7,326 Other public sector securities — — — — — 18 18 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 96 337 — — — — 433 Mortgage backed securities 207 108 23 16 — 15 369 Other asset backed securities 206 362 391 277 105 1 1,342 Corporate and other debt securities 3,194 864 2,911 2,142 599 1,410 11,120 Total held at fair value through profit or loss 10,842 1,903 3,501 2,504 791 1,641 21,182 Available-for-sale financial assets Debt securities: Government securities 851 — 1 — — 16 868 Other public sector securities — — — — — 12 12 Bank and building society certificates of deposit — 9,418 166 — 18 — 9,602 Mortgage backed securities 4,388 6 21 — 14 — 4,429 Other asset backed securities 4,604 121 60 20 98 53 4,956 Corporate and other debt securities 4,111 1,424 304 71 113 567 6,590 Total debt securities 13,954 10,969 552 91 243 648 26,457 Treasury bills and other bills 26,858 2,351 — — — — 29,209 Total held as available-for-sale assets 40,812 13,320 552 91 243 648 55,666 F-79 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Rated BB AAA AA A BBB or lower Not rated Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m As at 31 December 2007 Debt securities held at fair value through profit or loss Trading assets: Government securities 62 — — — — — 62 Mortgage backed securities — 28 51 8 — — 87 Other asset backed securities — 15 61 38 3 5 122 Corporate and other debt securities 268 1,268 1,390 103 59 519 3,607 Total held as trading assets 330 1,311 1,502 149 62 524 3,878 Other assets held at fair value through profit or loss: Government securities 4,808 6 15 1 — 18 4,848 Bank and building society certificates of deposit 42 548 53 — — 168 811 Mortgage backed securities 61 — — — — 9 70 Other asset backed securities 1,367 214 153 71 — — 1,805 Corporate and other debt securities 5,118 1,606 2,868 2,528 340 1,104 13,564 Total held at fair value through profit or loss 11,726 3,685 4,591 2,749 402 1,823 24,976 Available-for-sale financial assets Debt securities: Government securities 310 — — — — 9 319 Other public sector securities — — — — — 5 5 Bank and building society certificates of deposit — 1,683 125 — 15 2 1,825 Mortgage backed securities 5,880 14 10 — — 146 6,050 Other asset backed securities 3,895 37 27 — — 112 4,071 Corporate and other debt securities 3,822 1,170 186 — — 1,092 6,270 Total debt securities 13,907 2,904 348 — 15 1,366 18,540 Treasury bills and other bills 31 1,596 — — — — 1,627 Total held as available-for-sale assets 13,938 4,500 348 — 15 1,366 20,167 There are no material amounts for debt securities, treasury and other bills which are past due but not impaired. F-80 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued LIQUIDITY RISK The table below analyses financial instrument liabilities of the Group, excluding those arising from insurance and participating investment contracts, on an undiscounted future cash flow basis according to contractual maturity, into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date; balances with no fixed maturity are included in the over 5 years category. Up to 1 month £m 1-3 months £m 3-12 months £m 1-5 years £m Over 5 years £m Total £m As at 31 December 2008 Deposits from banks 49,620 13,617 1,480 1,986 5 66,708 Customer accounts 151,164 8,258 9,675 2,303 697 172,097 Derivative financial instruments, trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 29,479 1,077 5,295 7,203 3,818 46,872 Debt securities in issue 24,381 26,944 9,192 13,643 3,489 77,649 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 14,243 — — — — 14,243 Subordinated liabilities 34 130 563 5,382 20,516 26,625 Total 268,921 50,026 26,205 30,517 28,525 404,194 As at 31 December 2007 Deposits from banks 35,466 2,218 1,480 26 — 39,190 Customer accounts 144,213 4,800 7,578 2,002 447 159,040 Derivative financial instruments, trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 10,286 2,176 3,607 1,589 1,851 19,509 Debt securities in issue 20,307 6,047 9,529 13,202 6,197 55,282 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 18,197 — — — — 18,197 Subordinated liabilities 27 210 1,067 6,371 14,292 21,967 Total 228,496 15,451 23,261 23,190 22,787 313,185 Trading derivatives (other than those in the insurance companies) and trading liabilities are included in the up to 1 month column at their fair value. Liquidity risk on these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity as they are frequently settled on demand at fair value and therefore this is considered a better presentation of the Group’s liquidity risk. Derivatives used in a hedging relationship are included according to their contractual maturity. Cash flows for undated subordinated liabilities whose terms give the Group the option to redeem at a future date are included within the table on the basis that the Group will exercise its option to redeem. The principal amount for undated subordinated liabilities with no redemption option is included within the over 5 years column; interest of approximately £412 million (2007: £223 million) per annum which is payable in respect of those instruments for as long as they remain in issue is not included beyond 5 years. Further information on the Group’s liquidity exposures is provided on pages 65 to 67. Liabilities arising from insurance and participating investment contracts are analysed on a behavioural basis, as permitted by IFRS 4, as follows: Up to 1 month £m 1-3 months £m 3-12 months £m 1-5 years £m Over 5 years £m Total £m As at 31 December 2008 340 927 2,626 7,030 22,869 33,792 As at 31 December 2007 238 651 1,570 9,548 26,056 38,063 F-81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued The following tables set out the amounts and residual maturities of Lloyds Banking Group’s off balance sheet contingent liabilities and commitments. Within 1 year £m 1-3 years £m 3-5 years £m Over 5 years £m Total £m 31 December 2008 Acceptances 49 — — — 49 Other contingent liabilities 1,722 1,525 402 1,071 4,720 Total contingent liabilities 1,771 1,525 402 1,071 4,769 Lending commitments 54,155 15,029 8,014 3,625 80,823 Other commitments 572 181 80 99 932 Total commitments 54,727 15,210 8,094 3,724 81,755 Total contingents and commitments 56,498 16,735 8,496 4,795 86,524 Within 1 year £m 1-3 years £m 3-5 years £m Over 5 years £m Total £m 31 December 2007 Acceptances 39 1 — — 40 Other contingent liabilities 1,441 1,032 255 796 3,524 Total contingent liabilities 1,480 1,033 255 796 3,564 Lending commitments 60,981 13,759 10,634 4,221 89,595 Other commitments 466 78 108 117 769 Total commitments 61,447 13,837 10,742 4,338 90,364 Total contingents and commitments 62,927 14,870 10,997 5,134 93,928 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Financial instruments include financial assets, financial liabilities and derivatives. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Wherever possible, fair values have been estimated using market prices for instruments held by the Group. Where market prices are not available, or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, fair values have been determined using valuation techniques which, to the extent possible, use market observable inputs. Valuation techniques used include discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models and, where appropriate, comparison to instruments with characteristics either identical or similar to those of the instruments held by the Group. These estimation techniques are necessarily subjective in nature and involve several assumptions. The fair values presented in the following table are at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid or received on the maturity or settlement date. Because a variety of estimation techniques are employed and significant estimates made, comparisons of fair values between financial institutions may not be meaningful. Readers of these financial statements are thus advised to use caution when using this data to evaluate the Group’s financial position. Fair value information is not provided for items that do not meet the definition of a financial instrument. These items include intangible assets, such as the value of the Group’s branch network, the long-term relationships with depositors and credit card relationships; premises and equipment; and shareholders’ equity. These items are material and accordingly the Group believes that the fair value information presented does not represent the underlying value of the Group. The valuation technique for each major category of financial instrument and, where valuation models are used, significant inputs into valuation models, are discussed below. Where referred to within the major categories listed, the Group’s use of lead manager quotes and market standard consensus pricing services are as described below: Lead manager quotes for illiquid assets in the current markets do not represent binding levels and are validated for consistency across the same asset class and by reference to discounted cash flow models that use expected loss and discount assumptions. Market standard consensus pricing services aggregate price and other market data inputs from leading participants in the relevant markets and provide average mid-level outputs adjusted to exclude prices that are clearly out of line with other prices observed; these levels do not represent binding quotes. F-82 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued TRADING AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS The fair values of financial instruments quoted in active markets are based on quoted prices. The fair values of financial instruments that are not quoted in active markets are determined using valuation techniques including cash flow models which, to the extent practicable, use observable market inputs such as interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option volatilities and currency rates that are either directly observable or are implied from instrument prices. The fair values of bonds classified as trading assets are determined predominantly from lead manager quotes and, where these are not available, by reference to market standard consensus pricing services, broker quotes and other research data. Certain corporate bonds were valued using credit default swap (CDS) spreads and assumptions around the bond/CDS spread. The fair values of the Group’s venture capital investments are determined using techniques which follow British Venture Capital Association (BVCA) guidelines. The fair value movement on assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss and gains in respect of instruments held for trading are disclosed in note 7. At 31 December 2008, the Group had a portfolio of corporate bonds hedged by CDS. Prior to October 2008, the markets for both corporate bonds and CDS were relatively liquid and both sides of the above position were valued using market observable inputs. During October 2008 bid/offer spreads widened severely and, consequently, the cash market for corporate bonds became inactive. The above position is valued in part using assumptions around the bond/CDS spread. The effect of using reasonably possible alternative adverse assumptions for this valuation would reduce net trading income by up to £105 million. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS All derivatives are recognised at their fair value. Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow and options pricing models, as appropriate. Derivatives are carried in the balance sheet as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative. Interest rate swaps are valued using discounted cash flow models; the most significant inputs into those models are interest rate yield curves which are developed from publicly quoted rates. Foreign exchange derivatives that do not contain options are priced using rates available from publicly quoted sources. Credit derivatives, except for the items noted below, are valued using publicly available yield and CDS curves; the Group uses standard models with observable inputs. Less complex interest rate and foreign exchange option products are valued using volatility surfaces developed from publicly available interest rate cap, interest rate swaption and other option volatilities; option volatility skew information is derived from a market standard consensus pricing service. For more complex option products, the Group calibrates its models using observable at-the-money data; where necessary, the Group adjusts for out-of-the-money positions using a market standard consensus pricing service. An analysis of derivatives including fair values by contract type is given in note 17. At 31 December 2008, the Group had a senior synthetic position in a structured corporate collateralised debt obligation (CDO) that is valued in part using assumptions around recovery levels. The effect of using reasonably possible alternative favourable or adverse assumptions for recovery levels would increase or reduce net trading income by up to £80 million respectively. At 31 December 2008, the Group had a credit valuation reserve on its derivative positions that is valued in part using assumptions around credit spreads and recovery risks. The effect of using reasonably possible alternative adverse combinations of assumptions for these risks would reduce net trading income by up to £70 million. LOANS AND ADVANCES TO BANKS AND CUSTOMERS The Group provides loans and advances to commercial, corporate and personal customers at both fixed and variable rates. The carrying value of the variable rate loans and those relating to lease financing is assumed to be their fair value. For fixed rate lending, several different techniques are used to estimate fair value, as considered appropriate. For commercial and personal customers, fair value is principally estimated by discounting anticipated cash flows (including interest at contractual rates) at market rates for similar loans offered by the Group and other financial institutions. The fair value for corporate loans is estimated by discounting anticipated cash flows at a rate which reflects the effects of interest rate changes, adjusted for changes in credit risk. Certain loans secured on residential properties are made at a fixed rate for a limited period, typically two to five years, after which the loans revert to the relevant variable rate. The fair value of such loans is estimated by reference to the market rates for similar loans of maturity equal to the remaining fixed interest rate period. The fair values of asset backed securities (ABS) and secondary loans, which were previously within assets held for trading and were reclassified to loans and receivables (see page F-73), are determined predominantly from lead manager quotes and, where these are not available, by alternative techniques including reference to credit spreads on similar assets with the same obligor, market standard consensus pricing services, broker quotes and other research data. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Listed securities are valued at current bid prices. Unlisted securities and other financial assets are valued based on discounted cash flows, market prices of similar instruments and other appropriate valuation techniques. The fair values of bonds classified as available-for-sale financial assets, including ABS, are determined predominantly from lead manager quotes and, where these are not available, by alternative techniques including reference to credit spreads on similar assets with the same obligor, market standard consensus pricing services, broker quotes and other research data. At 31 December 2008, the Group’s available-for-sale financial assets included ABS of £13,938 million. In respect of these assets, the effect of a 100 basis point shift in credit spreads would result in a pre-tax movement of £590 million which would be recognised, net of tax, in the revaluation reserve in respect of available-for-sale assets. DEPOSITS FROM BANKS AND CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS The fair value of deposits repayable on demand is considered to be equal to their carrying value. The fair value for all other deposits and customer accounts is estimated using discounted cash flows applying either market rates, where applicable, or current rates for deposits of similar remaining maturities. F-83 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued DEBT SECURITIES IN ISSUE AND SUBORDINATED LIABILITIES The fair value of short-term debt securities in issue is approximately equal to their carrying value. Fair value for other debt securities and for subordinated liabilities is estimated using quoted market prices. TRADING AND OTHER LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS The fair values of financial instruments quoted in active markets are based on quoted prices. The fair values of financial instruments that are not quoted in active markets are determined using valuation techniques including cash flow models which, to the extent practicable, use observable market inputs such as interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option volatilities and currency rates that are either directly observable or are implied from instrument prices. LIABILITIES ARISING FROM NON-PARTICIPATING INVESTMENT CONTRACTS The value of the Group’s non-participating investment contracts, all of which are unit-linked, is contractually linked to the fair values of financial assets within the Group’s unitised investment funds and is determined using current unit prices multiplied by the number of units attributed to the contract holders at the balance sheet date. Their value is never less than the amount payable on surrender, discounted for the required notice period where applicable. FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Financial guarantees are valued on the basis of cash premiums receivable. The Group considers that it is not meaningful or practical to provide an estimate of the fair value of other contingent liabilities and financial commitments, given the lack of an established market, the diversity of fee structures and the difficulty of separating the value of the instruments from the value of the overall transaction. Therefore only financial guarantees are included in the following table. Carrying value 2008 £m Carrying value 2007 £m Fair value 2008 £m Fair value 2007 £m Financial assets Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 45,064 57,911 45,064 57,911 Derivative financial instruments 28,884 8,659 28,884 8,659 Loans and advances to banks 40,758 34,845 40,425 34,832 Loans and advances to customers 242,735 209,814 237,079 209,066 Available-for-sale financial assets 55,707 20,196 55,707 20,196 Financial liabilities Deposits from banks 66,514 39,091 66,504 39,063 Customer accounts 170,938 156,555 171,119 156,608 Trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 6,754 3,206 6,754 3,206 Derivative financial instruments 26,892 7,582 26,892 7,582 Debt securities in issue 75,710 51,572 76,291 51,312 Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 14,243 18,197 14,243 18,197 Financial guarantees 35 26 35 26 Subordinated liabilities 17,256 11,958 11,199 12,128 50 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT (A) CHANGE IN OPERATING ASSETS 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Change in loans and advances to banks (3,360 ) 8,673 (11,063 ) Change in loans and advances to customers (30,357 ) (20,796 ) (13,910 ) Change in derivative financial instruments, trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (8,990 ) (4,348 ) (7,072 ) Change in other operating assets (318 ) (511 ) 50 Change in operating assets (43,025 ) (16,982 ) (31,995 ) F-84 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT continued (B) CHANGE IN OPERATING LIABILITIES 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Change in deposits from banks 25,279 2,136 5,222 Change in customer accounts 13,088 17,172 8,523 Change in debt securities in issue 22,401 (2,450 ) 15,068 Change in derivative financial instruments, trading and other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 22,565 3,840 556 Change in investment contract liabilities (3,061 ) (58 ) 3,795 Change in other operating liabilities 661 901 (95 ) Change in operating liabilities 80,933 21,541 33,069 (C) NON-CASH AND OTHER ITEMS 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Depreciation and amortisation 686 630 619 Revaluation of investment property 1,058 321 (631 ) Allowance for loan losses 2,876 1,721 1,560 Write-off of allowance for loan losses (1,498 ) (1,405 ) (1,299 ) Impairment of available-for-sale securities 130 70 — Impairment of goodwill 100 — — Change in insurance contract liabilities (4,555 ) 853 1,060 Customer remediation paid (9 ) (54 ) (93 ) Other provision movements 16 2 (19 ) Net charge in respect of defined benefit schemes 164 175 109 Contributions to defined benefit schemes (547 ) (452 ) (556 ) Other non-cash items (3,371 ) 870 104 Total non-cash items (4,950 ) 2,731 854 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 896 741 694 Profit on disposal of businesses — (657 ) — Other (10 ) (31 ) 7 Total other items 886 53 701 Non-cash and other items (4,064 ) 2,784 1,555 (D) ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AS SHOWN IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Cash and balances with central banks 5,008 4,330 1,898 Less: mandatory reserve deposits1 (545 ) (338 ) (300 ) 4,463 3,992 1,598 Loans and advances to banks 40,758 34,845 40,638 Less: amounts with a maturity of three months or more (12,461 ) (6,946 ) (16,798 ) 28,297 27,899 23,840 Total cash and cash equivalents 32,760 31,891 25,438 1 Mandatory reserve deposits are held with local central banks in accordance with statutory requirements; these deposits are not available to finance the Group’s day-to-day operations. Included within cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2008 is £8,255 million (2007: £7,426 million; 2006: £9,054 million) held within the Group’s life funds, which is not immediately available for use in the business. F-85 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT continued (E) ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN FINANCING DURING THE YEAR 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Share capital (including share premium account): At 1 January 2,730 2,695 2,590 Issue of share capital: Private placement 760 — — Other 119 35 105 At 31 December 3,609 2,730 2,695 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Minority interests: At 1 January 284 352 435 Exchange and other adjustments 28 (1 ) (4 ) Repayment of capital to minority shareholders (3 ) (80 ) (151 ) Minority share of profit after tax 26 32 104 Dividends to minority shareholders (29 ) (19 ) (32 ) At 31 December 306 284 352 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Subordinated liabilities: At 1 January 11,958 12,072 12,402 Exchange and other adjustments 2,658 186 (687 ) Issue of subordinated liabilities 3,021 — 1,116 Repayments of subordinated liabilities (381 ) (300 ) (759 ) At 31 December 17,256 11,958 12,072 (F) ACQUISITION OF GROUP UNDERTAKINGS AND BUSINESSES 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Net asets acquired: Loans and advances to customers — — 11 Other net assets — — 1 — — 12 Goodwill arising on consolidation — — 4 Net cash outflow from acquisitions in the year — — 16 Payments to former members of Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society acquired during 2000 19 8 4 Net cash outflow from acquisitions 19 8 20 During 2006, the Group, through its Asset Finance subsidiaries, acquired two businesses engaged in consumer finance for a total consideration of £16 million, settled in cash in that year. Goodwill of £4 million arose on those acquisitions; no significant fair value adjustments were made. (G) DISPOSAL AND CLOSURE OF GROUP UNDERTAKINGS AND BUSINESSES 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Cash and balances at central banks — 37 — Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss — 10,999 — Loans and advances to banks — 1,150 — Value of in-force business — 412 — Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts — (4,349 ) — Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts — (7,283 ) — Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses — (15 ) — Other net assets and liabilities — (95 ) — — 856 — Profit on sale of businesses — 657 — Cash and cash equivalents disposed of — (37 ) — Consideration of 2005 disposal settled in cash — — 936 Net cash inflow from disposals — 1,476 936 F-86 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 FUTURE ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS The following pronouncements will be relevant to the Group but were not effective at 31 December 2008 and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements. The full impact of these accounting changes is being assessed by the Group, however, the initial view is that none of these pronouncements are expected to cause any material adjustments to reported numbers in the financial statements. Pronouncement Nature of change Effective date IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Addresses accounting by entities who grant customer loyalty award credits to customers as part of sales transactions and which can be redeemed in the future for free or discounted goods or services. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008. IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation1 Provides guidance on accounting for hedges of net investments in foreign operations in an entity’s consolidated financial statements. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revises the overall requirements for the presentation of financial statements, guidance for their structure and minimum content requirements. The revised standard requires the presentation of all non-owner changes in equity within a statement of comprehensive income. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Requires interest and other costs incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds to be recognised as an expense except for those which are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale which must be capitalised as part of the cost of those assets. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. IFRS 8 Operating Segments Replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires reporting of financial and descriptive information about operating segments which are based on how financial information is reported and evaluated internally. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. IFRS 2 Share-based Payment – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations The amendment restricts the definition of vesting conditions to include only service conditions and performance conditions and deals with the accounting consequences of a failure to meet a condition other than a vesting condition including how to deal with cancellations by the counterparty and circumstances where neither the entity nor the counterparty is in a position to choose whether or not to meet a vesting condition. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation The amendment requires some puttable financial instruments (being those which give the holder the right to put the instrument back to the issuer for cash or another financial asset) and some financial instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation to be classified as equity. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. Improvements to IFRSs Sets out minor amendments to IFRS standards as part of annual improvements process. Dealt with on a standard by standard basis but not earlier than annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements – Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate Removes the definition of the cost method and requires the presentation of dividends as income in the separate financial statements of the investor. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. IFRS 3 Business Combinations1, 2 The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, however, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, some contingent payments are subsequently remeasured at fair value through income, goodwill may be calculated based on the parent’s share of net assets or it may include goodwill related to the minority interest, and all transaction costs are expensed. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements1, 2 Requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control; any remaining interest in an investee is re-measured to fair value in determining the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss where control over the investee is lost. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners1, 2 Provides accounting guidance for non-reciprocal distributions of non-cash assets to owners (and those in which owners may elect to receive a cash alternative). Annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement – Eligible Hedged Items1, 2 Clarifies how the principles underlying hedge accounting should be applied in particular situations. Annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. 1 At the date of this report, these pronouncements are awaiting EU endorsement. 2 Subject to EU endorsement, the Group has not yet made a final decision as to whether it will apply these pronouncements in the 2009 financial statements. F-87 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 52 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS SHARE CAPITAL On 19 November 2008, Lloyds Banking Group plc shareholders approved, subject to certain conditions, an increase in the Company’s share capital by creating 14,911,908,221 new ordinary shares of 25 pence each, and creating 625,000,000 new preference shares of 25 pence each. These conditions were met in January 2009. On 13 January 2009, the Group issued 2,596,653,203 ordinary shares at 173.3p, largely subscribed for by HM Treasury, raising a total of £4,500 million. On 15 January 2009, the Company issued £1,000,000,000 12 per cent fixed to floating non-cumulative callable preference shares to HM Treasury pursuant to the preference share subscription agreement entered into with effect from 13 October 2008 by the Company and HM Treasury. These preference shares became fungible with the £3,000,000,000 12 per cent fixed to floating non-cumulative callable preference shares issued by the Company on 16 January 2009 (see below); under the terms of these preference shares, the payment of cash dividends to ordinary shareholders is not permitted until the preference shares are repaid. So as to improve the position of HBOS preference shareholders following the acquisition of HBOS (see below), on 16 January 2009 the Group cancelled a number of HBOS preference share issuances in exchange for preference shares issued by Lloyds Banking Group plc. In this regard, the Company issued £299,987,729 9.25 per cent fixed rate non-cumulative preference shares, £99,999,942 9.75 per cent fixed rate non-cumulative preference shares, £186,190,532 6.475 per cent fixed rate non-cumulative preference shares, £745,431,000 6.0884 per cent fixed to floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares, £334,951,000 6.3673 per cent fixed to floating non-cumulative callable preference shares, US$750,000,000 6.413 per cent fixed to floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares, US$750,000,000 5.92 per cent fixed to floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares, US$750,000,000 6.657 per cent fixed to floating rate non-cumulative callable preference shares and £3,000,000,000 12 per cent fixed to floating non-cumulative callable preference shares. On 19 January 2009, the Company issued US$1,250,000,000 7.875 per cent non-cumulative callable preference shares and €500,000,000 7.875 per cent non-cumulative callable preference shares. ACQUISITION On 16 January 2009, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the ordinary share capital of HBOS plc, which together with its subsidiaries undertakes banking, insurance and other financial services related activities. Under the terms of the acquisition, HBOS shareholders received 0.605 Lloyds Banking Group shares for every 1 HBOS share. The total fair value of the purchase consideration was £7,751 million, comprising 7,775,694,993 Lloyds Banking Group ordinary shares with a fair value of £7,651 million based on the closing price of 98.4p per ordinary share on 15 January 2009, the trading day immediately prior to completion, and directly attributable transaction costs of approximately £100 million. Because of the limited time available between the acquisition and the approval of these financial statements, the Group is still in the process of establishing the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. The audited net assets of HBOS at 31 December 2008 as shown in the accounts were £13,499 million. CAPITALISATION ISSUE On 19 November 2008, the Company’s shareholders approved, subject to certain conditions, a resolution authorising the board to capitalise an amount out of the Company’s reserves and to apply such amount in paying up new Company shares. On 26 February 2009, the board approved a capitalisation issue of one for forty ordinary shares held. NAME CHANGE On 19 November 2008, the Company’s shareholders approved, subject to certain conditions, a resolution changing the name of the Company to Lloyds Banking Group plc. These conditions were met and the Company changed its name on 16 January 2009. F-88 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 PARENT COMPANY DISCLOSURES A COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT 2008 £m 2007 £m 2006 £m Net interest (expense) income (85 ) (46 ) 18 Other income 2,386 1,957 1,917 Total income 2,301 1,911 1,935 Operating expenses (32 ) (41 ) (42 ) Profit on ordinary activities before tax 2,269 1,870 1,893 Taxation charge (13 ) (15 ) (16 ) Profit for the year 2,256 1,855 1,877 B COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 2008 £ million 2007 £ million Assets Non-current assets: Investment in subsidiaries 5,589 5,589 Loans to subsidiaries 3,009 2,820 Deferred tax assets — 2 8,598 8,411 Current assets: Derivative financial instruments 1,297 169 Other assets 205 165 Amounts due from subsidiaries 216 92 Cash and cash equivalents 1,201 58 2,919 484 Total assets 11,517 8,895 Equity and liabilities Capital and reserves: Share capital 1,513 1,432 Share premium account 2,096 1,298 Retained profits 2,147 1,935 Total equity 5,756 4,665 Non-current liabilities: Subordinated liabilities 2,875 2,345 Debt securities in issue — 50 2,875 2,395 Current liabilities: Debt securities in issue 2,644 1,694 Current tax liabilities 116 28 Derivative financial instruments — 29 Amounts owed to subsidiaries — — Other liabilities 126 84 2,886 1,835 Total liabilities 5,761 4,230 Total equity and liabilities 11,517 8,895 F-89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 PARENT COMPANY DISCLOSURES continued C COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Share capital and premium £ million Retained profits £ million Total £ million Balance at 1 January 2006 2,590 2,055 4,645 Profit for the year* — 1,877 1,877 Dividends — (1,919 ) (1,919 ) Purchase/sale of treasury shares — (20 ) (20 ) Employee share option schemes: Value of employee services — 33 33 Proceeds from shares issued 105 — 105 Balance at 31 December 2006 2,695 2,026 4,721 Profit for the year — 1,855 1,855 Dividends — (1,957 ) (1,957 ) Purchase/sale of treasury shares — (19 ) (19 ) Employee share option schemes: Value of employee services — 30 30 Proceeds from shares issued 35 — 35 Balance at 31 December 2007 2,730 1,935 4,665 Profit for the year — 2,256 2,256 Dividends — (2,042 ) (2,042 ) Purchase/sale of treasury shares — (14 ) (14 ) Shares issued via private placement 760 — 760 Employee share option schemes: Value of employee services — 12 12 Proceeds from shares issued 119 — 119 Balance at 31 December 2008 3,609 2,147 5,756 D COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2008 £ million 2007 £ million 2006 £ million Profit before tax 2,269 1,870 1,893 Dividend income (2,294 ) (1,957 ) (1,918 ) Fair value and exchange adjustments (68 ) 10 3 Change in other assets (166 ) 103 (44 ) Change in other liabilities 42 (128 ) 156 Tax (paid) received 77 (32 ) 46 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (140 ) (134 ) 136 Cash flows from investing activities Capital lending to subsidiaries — (1,111 ) — Cash flows from financing activities Dividends received from subsidiaries 2,294 1,957 1,918 Dividends paid to equity shareholders (2,042 ) (1,957 ) (1,919 ) Proceeds from issue of debt securities 1,896 1,770 — Repayment of debt securities in issue (1,744 ) — — Proceeds from issue of subordinated liabilities — — 1,116 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares via private placement 760 — — Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 119 35 105 Repayment of subordinated liabilities — — (250 ) Repayment of amounts due to subsidiaries — (1,715 ) — Net cash generated by financing activities 1,283 90 970 Change in cash and cash equivalents 1,143 (1,155 ) 1,106 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 58 1,213 107 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,201 58 1,213 F-90 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 PARENT COMPANY DISCLOSURES continued E INTERESTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The principal subsidiaries, all of which have prepared accounts to 31 December and whose results are included in the consolidated accounts of Lloyds Banking Group plc, are: Country of registration/ Incorporation Percentage of equity share capital and voting rights held Nature of business Lloyds TSB Bank plc England 100% Banking and financial services Lloyds TSB Commercial Finance Limited England 100%† Credit factoring Lloyds TSB Leasing Limited England 100%† Financial leasing Lloyds TSB Private Banking Limited England 100%† Private banking The Agricultural Mortgage Corporation PLC England 100%† Long-term agricultural finance Lloyds TSB Offshore Limited Jersey 100%† Banking and financial services Lloyds TSB Scotland plc Scotland 100%† Banking and financial services Lloyds TSB General Insurance Limited England 100%† General insurance Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Group Limited England 100%† Investment management Lloyds TSB Insurance Services Limited England 100%† Insurance broking Lloyds TSB Asset Finance Division Limited England 100%† Consumer credit, leasing and related services Black Horse Limited England 100%† Consumer credit, leasing and related services Scottish Widows plc Scotland 100%† Life assurance Scottish Widows Annuities Limited Scotland 100%† Life assurance † Indirect interest. The principal area of operation for each of the above subsidiaries is the United Kingdom and the Channel Islands, except as follows: Lloyds TSB Bank plc operates principally in the UK but also through branches in Belgium, Dubai, Ecuador, France, Germany, Gibraltar, Hong Kong, Japan, Jersey, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Monaco, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Uruguay and the USA, and representative offices in China, Colombia, Guatemala and Paraguay. F-91 THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK GLOSSARY Term used US equivalent or brief description. Accounts Financial statements. Allotted Issued. Associates Long–term equity investments accounted for by the equity method. Attributable profit Net income. ATM Automatic Teller Machine. Balance sheet Statement of financial position. Broking Brokerage. Building society A building society is a mutual institution set up to lend money to its members for house purchases. See also ‘Demutualisation’. Called-up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid. Contract hire Leasing. Creditors Payables. Debtors Receivables. Deferred tax Deferred income tax. Demutualisation Process by which a mutual institution is converted into a public limited company. Depreciation Amortisation. Endowment mortgage An interest–only mortgage to be repaid by the proceeds of an endowment insurance policy which is assigned to the lender providing the mortgage. The sum insured, which is payable on maturity or upon the death of the policyholder, is used to repay the mortgage. Finance lease Capital lease. Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity. Interchange System allowing customers of different ATM operators to use any ATM that is part of the system. ISA Individual Savings Account. Leasehold Land or property which is rented from the owner for a specified term under a lease. At the expiry of the term the land or property reverts back to the owner. Lien Under UK law, a right to retain possession pending payment. Life assurance Life insurance. Loan capital Long–term debt. Members Shareholders. Memorandum and articles of association Articles and bylaws. National Insurance A form of taxation payable in the UK by employees, employers and the self-employed, used to fund benefits at the national level including state pensions, medical benefits through the National Health Service (NHS), unemployment and maternity. It is part of the UK’s national social security system and ultimately controlled by HM Revenue & Customs. Nominal value Par value. Open Ended Investment Company (‘OEIC’) Mutual fund. Ordinary shares Common stock. Overdraft A line of credit, contractually repayable on demand unless a fixed–term has been agreed, established through a customer’s current account. Preference shares Preferred stock. 141 GLOSSARY Term used US equivalent or brief description. Premises Real estate. Profit attributable to equity shareholders Net income. Provisions Reserves. Regular premium Premiums which are payable throughout the duration of a policy or for some shorter fixed period. Reinsurance The insuring again by an insurer of the whole or part of a risk that it has already insured with another insurer called a reinsurer. Retained profits Retained earnings. Share capital Capital stock. Shareholders’ equity Stockholders’ equity. Share premium account Additional paid-in capital. Shares in issue Shares outstanding. Single premium A premium in relation to an insurance policy payable once at the commencement of the policy. Tangible fixed assets Property and equipment. Undistributable reserves Restricted surplus. Write-offs Charge-offs. 142 FORM 20-F CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET Form 20–F Item Number and Caption Location Page Part I Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers A. Directors and senior management Not applicable. B. Advisers Not applicable. C. Auditors Not applicable. Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable A. Offer statistics Not applicable. B. Method and expected timetable Not applicable. Item 3. Key Information A. Selected financial data “Selected consolidated financial data” 3 “Exchange rates” 4 B. Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable. C. Reason for the offer and use of proceeds Not applicable. D. Risk factors “Risk factors” 127 