ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, contains forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by several risk factors, including those summarized below: Risks Relating to Our Company We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may not continue to be profitable. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we reported net income of $33.7 million and $60.1 million, respectively, and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, we reported net loss of approximately $23.1 million. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $5.9 million as of December 31, 2012. While we were profitable in 2012, there is no assurance that we will continue to be profitable in the future. Unexpected interruptions in our mining business may cause us to incur losses or the revenue we generate from production may not be sufficient to fund continuing operations including exploration and development costs. Our failure to report future profits may adversely affect the price of our common stock and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our existing production is limited to a single mine and any interruptions or stoppages in our mining activities would adversely affect our revenue. We are presently relying on a single mine to provide ore for processing at our mill facility which contains the mineralized material we sell to fund our operations. Any interruption in our ability to mine this location, such as a labor strike, natural disaster, or loss of permits would negatively impact our ability to collect revenue in the foreseeable future. Additionally, if we are unable to economically develop additional mines, we will eventually deplete the ore body and will no longer generate revenue sufficient to fund our operations. A decrease in or cessation of our mining operations would adversely affect our financial performance and may eventually cause us to cease operations. If we are unable to achieve gold and silver production levels anticipated from our El Aguila Project, our financial condition and results of operation will be adversely affected. We have proceeded with the processing of the El Aguila open-pit area ore and the development of the La Arista mine at the El Aguila Project based on estimates of mineralized material identified in our drilling program and estimates of gold and silver recovery based on test work developed during our scoping study. However, risks related to metallurgy are inherent when working with extractable minerals. Sales of gold and silver that we realize from future mining activity will be less than anticipated if the mined material does not contain the concentration of gold and silver predicted by our geological exploration. This risk may be increased since we have not sought or obtained a feasibility study or reserve report with regard to any of our properties. If sales of gold and silver are less than anticipated, we may not be able to recover our investment in our property and our operations may be adversely affected. Our inability to realize production based on quarterly or annual projections may also adversely affect the price of our common stock and you may lose all or part of your investment. 7 We have no proven or probable reserves and our decision to commence commercial production is not based on a study demonstrating economic recovery of any mineral reserves and is therefore inherently risky. Any funds spent by us on exploration or development could be lost. We have not established the presence of any proven or probable mineral reserves, as defined by the SEC, at any of our properties. Under Guide 7, the SEC has defined a “reserve” as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Any mineralized material discovered or produced by us should not be considered proven or probable reserves. In order to demonstrate the existence of proven or probable reserves, it would be necessary for us to perform additional exploration to demonstrate the existence of sufficient mineralized material with satisfactory continuity and obtain a positive feasibility study which demonstrates with reasonable certainty that the deposit can be economically and legally extracted and produced. We have not completed a feasibility study with regard to all or a portion of any of our properties to date. Since we commenced commercial production of mineralized material at the El Aguila Project without a feasibility study, there is inherent uncertainty as to whether the mineralized material can be economically produced or if so, for what period of time. The absence of proven or probable reserves makes it more likely that our properties may cease to be profitable and that the money we spend on exploration and development may never be recovered. Since we have no proven or probable reserves, our investment in mineral properties is not reported as an asset in our financial statements which may cause volatility in our net earnings and have a negative impact on the price of our stock. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and report substantially all exploration and construction expenditures as expenses until such time, if ever, we are able to establish proven or probable reserves. Since it is uncertain when, if ever, we will establish proven or probable reserves, it is uncertain whether we will ever report these types of future capital expenditures as an asset. Accordingly, our financial statements report fewer assets and greater expenses than would be the case if we had proven or probable reserves, which could produce volatility in our earnings and have a negative impact on our stock price. Estimates of mineralized material are based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. When making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, such as the El Aguila Project, we rely upon estimated calculations as to the mineralized material on our properties. Since we have not conducted a feasibility study demonstrating proven or probable reserves, estimates of mineralized material presented in our press releases and regulatory filings contain less certainty than would be the case if the estimates were made in accordance with the SEC-recognized definition of proven or probable reserves. Until mineralized material is actually mined and processed, it must be considered an estimate only. These estimates are imprecise and depend on geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot assure you that these mineralized material estimates will be accurate or that this mineralized material can be mined or processed profitably and any decision to move forward with development is inherently risky. Any material changes in estimates of mineralized material will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and such property’s return on capital. This risk is increased since we have not received a feasibility study on any of our properties. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale metallurgical tests will be recovered at production scale. These in-place mineralized material estimates will be diluted in the mining process. Revenue from the sale of our metals concentrates may be adversely affected by loss or damage to the concentrate during shipment and storage at our buyer’s facilities. We rely on third party transportation companies to transport the concentrate to our buyer’s facilities for processing and further refining. The terms of our sales contract with the buyer require us to rely on assay results from samples of our concentrate that are obtained at the buyer’s warehouse to determine the final sales value for our concentrates. Once the concentrate leaves our mill facility, we no longer have direct custody and control of these products. Theft or loss in transit or improper storage, fire, natural disasters, tampering or other unexpected events while at the buyer’s location may lead to the loss of all or a portion of our concentrate products. Such losses may not be covered by insurance and may lead to a delay or interruption in our revenue and our operating results may be adversely affected. Tampering, theft or environmental factors may impact the metal content of our concentrates between the time they are sampled at our mill site for provisional price purposes and the time they are sampled at the buyer’s warehouse for final price purposes and significant variances in these measurements may negatively impact our revenue. The volatility of the price of gold and silver could adversely affect our future operations and, if warranted, our ability to develop our properties. The profitability of our operations, the value of our properties and our ability to raise funding to conduct continued exploration and development, if warranted, are directly related to the market price of gold, silver and other metals. The price of gold may also have a significant influence on the market price of our common stock. Our decision to put a mine into production and to commit the funds necessary for that purpose must be made long before the first revenue from production would be received. A decrease in the price of gold and silver may prevent our properties from being economically mined or result in the write-off of assets whose value is impaired as a result of lower gold or silver prices. 8 The volatility in gold and silver prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth for each of the past five calendar years, the average annual market prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of gold and silver based on the daily London P.M. fix: Mineral 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Gold $ 872.00 $ 972.00 $ 1,225.00 $ 1,572.00 $ 1,689.00 Silver $ 14.99 $ 14.67 $ 20.19 $ 35.12 $ 31.96 The price of gold and silver is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including inflation, fluctuation of the United States dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, the sale of gold and silver by central banks, and the political and economic conditions of major gold and silver producing countries throughout the world and accordingly no amount of planning or technical expertise can fully eliminate these risks. In the event gold prices decline or remain low for prolonged periods of time, we might be unable to develop our properties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows. We currently do not enter into forward sales, commodity, derivatives or hedging arrangements with respect to our gold and silver production and, as a result, we are exposed to the impact of any significant decrease in the price of gold or silver. We sell the gold and silver we are producing at the prevailing market price. Currently, we do not enter into forward sales, commodity, derivative or hedging arrangements to establish a price in advance for the sale of future gold or silver production, although we may do so in the future. As a result, we may realize the benefit of any short-term increase in the gold or silver price, but we are not protected against decreases in the gold or silver price. If the gold or silver price decreases significantly, our revenues may be materially adversely affected. Our current property portfolio is limited to a single producing property and our ability to remain profitable over the long term will depend on our ability to expand the known deposits like Arista and / or identify, explore and develop additional properties. Gold and silver properties are wasting assets. They eventually become depleted or uneconomical to continue mining. The acquisition of gold and silver properties and their exploration and development are subject to intense competition. Companies with greater financial resources, larger staff, more experience and more equipment for exploration and development may be in a better position than us to compete for such mineral properties. If we are unable to find, develop, and economically mine new properties, we most likely will not be profitable on a long term basis and the price of our common stock may suffer. Our producing property is subject to a lease in favor of a third party which provides for royalties on production. We lease a portion of our El Aguila property from a third party. The leased portion of the property provides for a net smelter return royalty of 4% where production is sold in the form of gold/silver dorè and 5% where production is sold in concentrate form. All of our production to date has been from the leased property and processed and sold as concentrate. The requirement to pay royalties to the owner of the concessions at our El Aguila property, which includes the open pit mine and underground mine, will reduce our profitability from production of gold or other precious metals. The construction and development of our underground mine and optimization and continued expansion and operation of our mill are subject to all of the risks inherent in construction development, and operations. These risks include potential delays, cost overruns, shortages of material or labor, construction defects, breakdowns and injuries to persons and property. We expect to engage a combination of American and Mexican subcontractors and material suppliers in connection with the continued development of the El Aguila Project. While we anticipate taking all measures which we deem reasonable and prudent in connection with construction and development of the underground mine and the operation of the mill, there is no assurance that the risks described above will not cause delays or cost overruns in connection with such construction or operation. Any delays would postpone our anticipated receipt of revenue and adversely affect our operations, which in turn may adversely affect the price of our stock. Our underground mining operations are subject to unique risks. The exploration for minerals and the development and production of mining operations from an underground mine involve a high level of risk and are often affected by hazards outside of our control. Some of these risks include, but are not limited to, underground fires or floods, fall-of-ground accidents, seismic activity and unexpected geological formations or conditions including noxious fumes or gases. The occurrence of one or more of these events in connection with our exploration, development, or production activities may result in the death of, or personal injury to, our employees, other personnel or third parties, the loss of mining equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, monetary losses, deferral or unanticipated fluctuations in production, environmental damage and potential legal liabilities, all of which may adversely affect our reputation, business, prospects, results of operations and financial position. Our operations are subject to permitting requirements which could require us to delay, suspend or terminate our operations. Our operations, including our ongoing exploration drilling program and production at the El Aguila Project, 9 require permits from the Mexican government. If we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving future permits, our timetable and business plan will be adversely affected. We have been named as a defendant in securities class action and shareholder lawsuits which could result in substantial damages and may divert management’s time and attention from our business. We and certain of our officers and directors are named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit, and in a shareholder derivative lawsuit, each filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado and described in more detail in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” These lawsuits and any other related lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties, and the actual costs to be incurred relating to these lawsuits will depend upon many unknown factors. The outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain, and we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of these suits, and we may not prevail. Monitoring and defending against legal actions is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with the litigation. We are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from these matters, and we cannot be certain how long it may take to resolve the litigation or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to these lawsuits. It is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions could result in the payment of substantial damages and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations, financial position and stock price. Our properties are located in Mexico and are subject to changes in political or economic conditions and regulations in that country. All of our existing properties are located in Mexico. The risks with respect to Mexico or other developing countries include, but are not limited to: nationalization of properties, military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, criminal activity, lack of personal safety or ability to safeguard property, labor instability or militancy, mineral title irregularities and high rates of inflation. In addition, changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Mexico may adversely affect our business. We may be affected in varying degrees by government regulation with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, opposition from non-governmental organizations, water use and mine safety. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted but may adversely impact our proposed operations in any foreign jurisdiction. Changes in legislation affecting the mining industry could significantly affect our operations. As in other countries, legislation has been introduced in Mexico which would impose a royalty on production from mineral properties. In the event any such legislation was successfully passed and signed into law, it could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations. Legislation relating to employee profit sharing in Mexico was recently passed that could effectively increase mandated profit sharing distributions to our mine employees. This legislation may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We do not insure against all of the risks to which we may be subject in our operations. While we currently maintain insurance against general commercial liability claims and the physical assets at our El Aguila Project, we do not maintain insurance to cover all of the potential risks associated with our operations. We might be subject to liability for environmental, pollution or other hazards associated with mineral exploration and development, which risks may not be insured against, which may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage, or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. We may also not be insured against interruptions to our operations. Losses from these or other events may cause us to incur significant costs which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fund activities on our property. A significant loss could force us to reduce or terminate our operations. Our ability to develop our property is subject to the rights of the Ejido (local inhabitants) to use the surface for agricultural purposes. Our ability to mine minerals is subject to maintaining satisfactory arrangements with the Ejido for access and surface disturbances. Ejidos are groups of local inhabitants who were granted rights to conduct agricultural activities on the property. We must negotiate and maintain a satisfactory arrangement with these residents in order to disturb or discontinue their rights to farm. While we have successfully negotiated and signed such agreements related to the El Aguila Project, our inability to maintain these agreements or consummate similar agreements for new projects could impair or impede our ability to successfully mine the properties. Competition in the mining industry is intense, and we have limited financial and personnel resources with which to compete. Competition in the mining industry for desirable properties, investment capital and personnel is intense. Numerous companies headquartered in the United States, Canada and elsewhere throughout the world compete for properties on a global basis. We are an insignificant participant in the gold mining industry due to our limited financial and personnel resources. We presently operate with a limited number of personnel and we anticipate that we will compete with other companies in our industry to hire additional qualified personnel which will be required to successfully operate our mine and mill site. We may be unable to attract the necessary investment capital or personnel to fully explore and if warranted, develop our properties and be unable to acquire other desirable properties. 10 We may require significant additional capital to fund our business plan. We will be required to expend significant funds to determine if proven or probable mineral reserves exist at any of our properties, to continue exploration and if warranted, develop our existing properties and to identify and acquire additional properties to diversify our property portfolio. We have spent and will be required to continue to expend significant amounts of capital for drilling, geological and geochemical analysis, assaying and feasibility studies with regard to the results of our exploration. We may not benefit from these investments if we are unable to identify commercially exploitable mineralized material. If we do locate commercially mineable material or decide to put additional properties into production, we may be required to upgrade our milling facility at the El Aguila Project or construct new facilities. Our ability to obtain necessary funding for these purposes, in turn, depends upon a number of factors, including the status of the national and worldwide economy and the price of gold and other precious metals. Capital markets worldwide have been adversely affected by substantial losses by financial institutions, in turn caused by investments in asset-backed securities. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing, or if we can obtain such financing, such financing may not be on terms that are favorable to us. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further mining operations or exploration and development and the possible partial or total loss of our potential interest in our properties. Since most of our expenses are paid in Mexican pesos, and we sell our production in United States dollars, we are subject to adverse changes in currency values that may adversely affect our results of operation. Our operations in the future could be affected by changes in the value of the Mexican peso against the United States dollar. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies such as the peso against the U.S. dollar increases expenses and the cost of purchasing capital assets in U.S. dollar terms in Mexico, which can adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. Conversely, depreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies usually decreases operating costs and capital asset purchases in U.S. dollar terms. The value of cash and cash equivalents, and other monetary assets and liabilities, denominated in foreign currencies also fluctuate with changes in currency exchange rates. Our activities are subject to significant environmental regulations, which could raise the cost of doing business or adversely affect our ability to develop our properties. Our mining operations are subject to environmental regulation by SEMARNAT, the environmental protection agency of Mexico. Regulations governing development of new projects or significant changes to existing projects require that an environmental impact statement, known in Mexico as a Manifiestacion de Impacto Ambiental, be prepared by a third party contractor for submission to SEMARNAT. Studies required to support this impact statement include a detailed analysis of many subject areas, including soil, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural resources and socio-economic impacts. We may also be required to submit proof of local community support for a project to obtain final approval. If an environmental impact statement is adverse or if we cannot obtain community support, our ability to develop our properties could be adversely affected. Significant environmental legislation exists in Mexico, including fines and penalties for spills, release of emissions into the air, seepage and other environmental damage, which fines or penalties could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation. Our continuing reclamation obligations at the El Aguila Project and our other properties could require significant additional expenditures. We are responsible for the reclamation obligations related to disturbances located on all of our properties, including the El Aguila Project. We have reserved a liability on our balance sheet to cover the estimated amount of our reclamation obligation. However, there is a risk that any reserve could be inadequate to cover the actual costs of reclamation when carried out. Continuing reclamation obligations will require a significant amount of capital. There is a risk that we will be unable to fund these additional obligations, and further, that the regulatory authorities may increase reclamation requirements to such a degree that it would not be commercially reasonable to continue exploration activities, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows. The nature of mineral exploration and production activities involves a high degree of risk and the possibility of uninsured losses. Exploration for and the production of minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risk than many other businesses. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization, and any mineralization discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Our operations are, and any future development or mining operations we may conduct will be, subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for and development of mineral properties, such as, but not limited to: • Economically insufficient mineralized material; • Fluctuation in production costs that make mining uneconomical; • Labor disputes; • Unanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems; • Environmental hazards; • Water conditions; 11 • Difficult surface or underground conditions; • Industrial accidents; • Metallurgic and other processing problems; • Mechanical and equipment performance problems; • Failure of pit walls or dams; • Unusual or unexpected rock formations; • Personal injury, fire, flooding, cave-ins and landslides; and • Decrease in the value of mineralized material due to lower gold and silver prices. Any of these risks can materially and adversely affect, among other things, the development of properties, production quantities and rates, costs and expenditures, potential revenues and production dates. We currently have limited insurance to guard against some of these risks. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not likely to be recovered, we would incur a write down of our investment in these interests. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are not recoverable, or result in additional expenses. We depend upon a limited number of personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Due to the relatively limited number of personnel that we employ and our status as an exploration stage company, we are dependent on a limited number of individuals to run our business. These individuals include our executive officers, including William and Jason Reid and Brad Blacketor, and to a lesser extent, our employees Rick Irvine and Barry Devlin. If any of these individuals were to die, become disabled or leave our company, we would be forced to identify and retain individuals to replace them. There is no assurance that we can find suitable individuals to replace them or to add to our employee base if that becomes necessary. We have no life insurance on any individual, and we may be unable to hire a suitable replacement for them on favorable terms, should that become necessary. In the event of a dispute regarding title to our property or any facet of our operations, it will likely be necessary for us to resolve the dispute in Mexico, where we would be faced with unfamiliar laws and procedures. The resolution of disputes in foreign countries can be costly and time consuming, similar to the situation in the United States. However, in a foreign country, we face the additional burden of understanding unfamiliar laws and procedures. We may not be entitled to a jury trial, as we might be in the United States. Further, to litigate in any foreign country, we would be faced with the necessity of hiring lawyers and other professionals who are familiar with the foreign laws. For these reasons, we may incur unforeseen losses if we are forced to resolve a dispute in Mexico or any other foreign country. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial statements and our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. In order to provide reliable financial reports and operate successfully as a publicly traded company, we must maintain effective control over our financial reporting. In connection with the restatement of certain interim financial statements during 2012, we determined and reported to our external auditors there was an internal control deficiency in our concentrate sales process at March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012 that did not prevent or detect on a timely basis the potential impact to concentrate sales that results from material variances between assays from concentrate samples taken at the mine site, and assays from samples taken at the buyer’s warehouse, prior to final settlement with the buyer. Management concluded that concentrate sales should have been adjusted at the time the material assay differences were known, even though final settlement had not yet occurred. We believe that this material weakness does not exist as of December 31, 2012. However, we can make no assurances that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies may not subsequently arise. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, it could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, result in material misstatements in our financial statements, restatement of financial statements, sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, or loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure and financial accounting standards may result in additional expenses and affect our reported results of operations. Keeping informed of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting standards, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as new and proposed SEC regulations and accounting standards, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. Compliance with such requirements may result in increased general and administrative expenses and an increased allocation of management time and attention to compliance activities. 12 The laws of the State of Colorado and our Articles of Incorporation may protect our directors from certain types of lawsuits. The laws of the State of Colorado provide that our directors will not be liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors of the company. Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to indemnify our directors and officers against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law. The exculpation provisions may have the effect of preventing shareholders from recovering damages against our directors caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. The indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors and officers against claims, including claims arising out of their negligence, poor judgment, or other circumstances. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile and as a result you could lose all or part of your investment. In addition to volatility associated with equity securities in general, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: • Changes in the worldwide price for gold; • Disappointing results from our exploration or production efforts; • Producing at rates lower than those targeted; • Weather conditions, including unusually heavy rains; • Failure to meet our revenue or profit goals or operating budget; • Decline in demand for our common stock; • Downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or changes in general market conditions; • Technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; • Investor perception of our industry or our prospects; and • General economic trends. In the last 12 months, the price of our stock has ranged from a low of $12.31 to a high of $28.37. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of securities have been highly volatile. These fluctuations are often unrelated to operating performance and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, you may be unable to resell your shares at a desired price. Past payments of dividends on our common stock are not indictors of future payments of dividends. As of March 15, 2013, we have declared an instituted cash dividend on our common stock of $0.06 per share per month. However, our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend on a number of factors, including cash flow, development requirements and strategies, construction projects, spot gold and silver prices and taxation and general market conditions. Further, a portion of our cash flow will likely be retained to finance our operations. Any material change in our operations may affect future dividends which may be modified at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Any decrease in our monthly dividend would likely have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The sale of common stock by certain of our shareholders may depress the price of our common stock due to the limited trading market which exists. Due to a number of factors, including our stage of development and the past history of our common stock trading in the over the counter securities market prior to becoming listed on a national securities exchange, the trading volume in our common stock has been limited. Trading over the last 90 days has averaged approximately 400,000 shares per day. The sale of a significant amount of common stock by our principal shareholders, including Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited, may depress the price of our common stock. As a result, you may lose all or a part of your investment. A small number of existing shareholders own a significant amount of our common stock, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 10% of our common stock and our largest shareholder owns approximately 28% of our common stock as of March 15, 2013. Under our Articles of Incorporation and Colorado law, the vote of a majority of the shares outstanding is generally required to approve most shareholder action. As a result, this group may be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes for the foreseeable future, including votes concerning the election of directors, amendments to our Articles of Incorporation or proposed mergers or other significant corporate transactions. We have no existing agreements or plans for mergers or other corporate transactions that would require a shareholder vote at this time. However, you should be aware that you may have limited ability to influence the outcome of any vote in the future. We are subject to the Continued Listing Criteria of the NYSE MKT and our failure to satisfy these criteria may result in delisting of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE MKT. In order to maintain the listing, we must maintain certain share prices, financial and share distribution targets, including maintaining a minimum 13 amount of shareholders’ equity and a minimum number of public shareholders. In addition to objective standards, the NYSE MKT may delist the securities of any issuer if, in its opinion, the issuer’s financial condition and/or operating results appear unsatisfactory; if it appears that the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the security has become so reduced as to make continued listing on the NYSE MKT inadvisable; if the issuer sells or disposes of principal operating assets or ceases to be an operating company; if an issuer fails to comply with the NYSE MKT’s listing requirements; if an issuer’s common stock sells at what the NYSE MKT considers a “low selling price” and the issuer fails to correct this via a reverse split of shares after notification by the NYSE MKT; or if any other event occurs or any condition exists which makes continued listing on the NYSE MKT, in its opinion, inadvisable. If the NYSE MKT delists our common stock, investors may face material adverse consequences, including, but not limited to, a lack of trading market for our securities, reduced liquidity, decreased analyst coverage of our securities, and an inability for us to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. Issuances of our stock in the future could dilute existing shareholders and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have the authority to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and also to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock without stockholder approval. As of March 15, 2013, there were 52,679,369 shares of common stock outstanding. Future issuances of our securities could be at prices substantially below the price paid for our common stock by our current shareholders. In addition, we can issue blocks of our common stock in amounts up to 20% of the then outstanding shares without further shareholder approval. Because we experience lower trading volume in our common stock than many of our larger peers, the issuance of a significant amount of our common stock may have a disproportionately large impact on our share price compared to larger companies. Our awards of stock options to employees may not have their intended effect. A portion of our total compensation program for our executive officers and key personnel has historically included the award of options to buy our common stock. If the price of our common stock performs poorly, such performance may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract critical personnel. In addition, any changes made to our stock option policies, or to any other of our compensation practices, which are made necessary by governmental regulations or competitive pressures could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 