ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, contains forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by several risk factors, including those summarized below: Risks Relating to Our Company We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may not continue to be profitable. We achieved our first year of profitability in 2011 since our inception in 1998. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we reported net losses of approximately $23.1 million and $34.1 million, respectively and we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $39.5 million as of December 31, 2011. While we were profitable in 2011, there is no assurance that we will continue to be profitable in the future. Unexpected interruptions in our mining business may cause us to incur losses or the revenue we generate from production may not be sufficient to fund continuing operations including exploration and development costs. Our failure to report future profits may adversely affect the price of our common stock and you may lose all or part of your investment. 3 Table of Contents Our existing production is limited to a single mine and any interruptions or stoppages in our mining activities would adversely affect our revenue. We are presently relying on a single mine to provide ore for processing at our mill facility which contains the mineralized material we sell to fund our operations. Any interruption in our ability to mine this location, such as a labor strike, natural disaster, or loss of permits would negatively impact our ability to collect revenue in the foreseeable future. Additionally, if we are unable to economically develop additional mines, we will eventually deplete the ore body and will no longer generate revenue sufficient to fund our operations. A decrease in or cessation of our mining operations would adversely affect our financial performance and may eventually cause us to cease operations. We have no proven or probable reserves and our decision to commence commercial production is not based on a study demonstrating economical recovery of any mineral reserves and is therefore inherently risky. Any funds spent by us on exploration or development could be lost. We have not established the presence of any proven or probable mineral reserves, as defined by the SEC, at any of our properties. Under Guide 7, the SEC has defined a “reserve” as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Any mineralized material discovered or produced by us should not be considered proven or probable reserves. In order to demonstrate the existence of proven or probable reserves, it would be necessary for us to perform additional exploration to demonstrate the existence of sufficient mineralized material with satisfactory continuity and obtain a positive feasibility study which demonstrates with reasonable certainty that the deposit can be economically and legally extracted and produced. We have not completed a feasibility study with regard to all or a portion of any of our properties to date. Since we commenced commercial production of mineralized material at the El Aguila Project without a feasibility study, there is inherent uncertainty as to whether the mineralized material can be economically produced or if so, for what period of time. The absence of proven or probable reserves makes it more likely that our properties may cease to be profitable and that the money we spend on exploration and development may never be recovered. Since we have no proven or probable reserves, our investment in mineral properties is not reported as an asset in our financial statements which may have a negative impact on the price of our stock. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and have reported substantially all exploration and construction expenditures as expenses until such time, if ever, we are able to establish proven or probable reserves, and expect to continue that practice in the future. If we are able to establish proven or probable reserves, we would report development expenditures as an asset subject to future amortization using the units-of-production method. Since it is uncertain when, if ever, we will establish proven or probable reserves, it is uncertain whether we will ever report these types of future capital expenditures as an asset. Accordingly, our historical financial statements report fewer assets and greater expenses than would be the case if we had proven or probable reserves, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. Estimates of mineralized material are based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. When making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, such as the El Aguila Project, we rely upon estimated calculations as to the mineralized material on our properties. Since we have not conducted a feasibility study demonstrating proven or probable reserves, estimates of mineralized material presented in our press releases and regulatory filings contain less certainty than would be the case if the estimates were made in accordance with the SEC-recognized definition of proven and probable reserves. Until mineralized material is actually mined and processed, it must be considered an estimate only. These estimates are imprecise and depend on geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot assure you that these mineralized material estimates will be accurate or that this mineralized material can be mined or processed profitably and any decision to move forward with development is inherently risky. Any material changes in estimates of mineralized material will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and such property’s return on capital. This risk is increased since we have not received a feasibility study on any of our properties. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale metallurgical tests will be recovered at production scale. These in-place mineralized material estimates will be diluted in the mining process. The volatility of the price of gold and silver could adversely affect our future operations and, if warranted, our ability to develop our properties. The profitability of our operations, the value of our properties and our ability to raise funding to conduct continued exploration and development, if warranted, are directly related to the market price of gold, silver and other precious metals. The price of gold may also have a significant influence on the market price of our common stock. Our decision to put a mine into production and to commit the funds necessary for that purpose must be made long before the first revenue from production would be received. A decrease in the price of gold and silver may prevent our property from being economically mined or result in the write-off of assets whose value is impaired as a result of lower gold or silver prices. The price of gold and silver is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including inflation, fluctuation of the United States dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, the sale of gold and silver by central banks, and the political and economic conditions of major gold and silver producing countries throughout the world. 4 Table of Contents The volatility in gold and silver prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth for each of the past five calendar years, the average annual market prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of gold and silver based on the daily London P.M. fix: Mineral 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Gold $ 696.00 $ 872.00 $ 972.00 $ 1,225.00 $ 1,572.00 Silver $ 13.38 $ 14.99 $ 14.67 $ 20.19 $ 35.12 The volatility of mineral prices represents a substantial risk which no amount of planning or technical expertise can fully eliminate. In the event gold prices decline or remain low for prolonged periods of time, we might be unable to develop our properties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows. We currently do not enter into forward sales, commodity, derivatives or hedging arrangements with respect to our gold and silver production and as a result we are exposed to the impact of any significant decrease in the price of gold or silver. We sell the gold and silver we are producing at the prevailing market price. Currently, we do not enter into forward sales, commodity, derivative or hedging arrangements to establish a price in advance for the sale of future gold or silver production, although we may do so in the future. As a result, we may realize the benefit of any short-term increase in the gold or silver price, but we are not protected against decreases in the gold or silver price, and if the gold or silver price decreases significantly, our revenues may be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to achieve gold and silver production levels anticipated from our El Aguila Project, our financial condition and results of operation will be adversely affected. We have proceeded with the processing of the El Aguila open-pit area ore and the development of the La Arista mine at the El Aguila Project based on estimates of mineralized material identified in our drilling program and estimates of gold and silver recovery based on test work developed during our scoping study. However, risks related to metallurgy are inherent when working with extractable minerals. Sales of gold and silver that we realize from future mining activity will be less than anticipated if the mined material does not contain the concentration of gold and silver predicted by our geological exploration. This risk may be increased since we have not sought or obtained a feasibility study or reserve report with regard to any of our properties. If sales of gold and silver are less than anticipated, we may not be able to recover our investment in our property and our operations may be adversely affected. Our inability to realize production based on quarterly or annual projections may also adversely affect the price of our common stock and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our current property portfolio is limited to a single producing property and our ability to remain profitable over the long term will depend on our ability to identify, explore and develop additional properties. Gold and silver properties are wasting assets. They eventually become depleted or uneconomical to continue mining. The acquisition of gold and silver properties and their exploration and development are subject to intense competition. Companies with greater financial resources, larger staff, more experience and more equipment for exploration and development may be in a better position than us to compete for such mineral properties. If we are unable to find, develop, and economically mine new properties, we most likely will not be profitable on a long term basis and the price of our common stock may suffer. Our producing property is subject to a lease in favor of a third party which provides for royalties on production. We lease our El Aguila property from a third party. Our lease for the El Aguila property provides for a net smelter return royalty of 4% where production is sold in the form of gold/silver dorè and 5% where production is sold in concentrate form. All of our production to date has been processed and sold as concentrate. The requirement to pay royalties to the owner of the concessions at our El Aguila property, which includes the open pit mine and underground mine, will reduce our profitability from production of gold or other precious metals. Since we have a very limited operating history, investors have little basis to evaluate our ability to operate. We were organized in 1998 and declared commercial production of our first mine less than two years ago. Our activities to date have been focused on raising financing, exploring our properties and preparing for production at the El Aguila Project. Our mill at the El Aguila Project is still optimizing production and we are presently processing ore using only the flotation circuit of the mill. We face all of the risks commonly encountered by other businesses that lack an established operating history, including the need for additional capital and personnel, and intense competition. There is no assurance that our business plan will be successful. 5 Table of Contents The construction of our underground mine and optimization and continued operation of our mill are subject to all of the risks inherent in construction, start-up and operations. These risks include potential delays, cost overruns, shortages of material or labor, construction defects, breakdowns and injuries to persons and property. We expect to engage a combination of American and Mexican subcontractors and material suppliers in connection with the continued development of the El Aguila Project. While we anticipate taking all measures which we deem reasonable and prudent in connection with construction of the underground mine and the operation of the mill, there is no assurance that the risks described above will not cause delays or cost overruns in connection with such construction or operation. Any delays would postpone our anticipated receipt of revenue and adversely affect our operations, which in turn may adversely affect the price of our stock. Our underground mining operations are subject to unique risks. The exploration for minerals and the development and production of mining operations from an underground mine involve a high level of risk and are often affected by hazards outside of our control. Some of these risks include, but are not limited to, underground fires or floods, fall-of-ground accidents, seismic activity and unexpected geological formations or conditions including noxious fumes or gases. The occurrence of one or more of these events in connection with our exploration, development, or production activities may result in the death of, or personal injury to, our employees, other personnel or third parties, the loss of mining equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, monetary losses, deferral or unanticipated fluctuations in production, environmental damage and potential legal liabilities, all of which may adversely affect our reputation, business, prospects, results of operations and financial position. Our operations are subject to permitting requirements which could require us to delay, suspend or terminate our operations. Our operations, including our ongoing exploration drilling program and production at the El Aguila Project, require permits from the Mexican government. If we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving future permits, our timetable and business plan will be adversely affected. Our properties are located in Mexico and are subject to changes in political conditions and regulations in that country. All of our existing properties are located in Mexico. In the past, Mexico has been subject to political and social instability, changes and uncertainties which may cause changes to existing government regulations affecting mineral exploration and mining activities. Our mineral exploration and mining activities in Mexico may be adversely affected in varying degrees by changing governmental regulations relating to the mining industry or shifts in political conditions that increase the costs related to our activities or maintaining our properties. Finally, Mexico’s status as a developing country may make it more difficult for us to obtain required financing for our projects. Our business operations may be adversely affected by social and political unrest in Oaxaca or by violence and crime in Mexico. Our existing properties are all located in the State of Oaxaca, Mexico. Oaxaca City, the capital of the State of Oaxaca, experienced a period of social and political unrest in 2006. Certain civilian groups seeking political reform staged protests and demonstrations in various locations in Oaxaca City, including schools, government offices and major roadways. Our business operations could be negatively impacted if Oaxaca or other areas of Mexico experiences another similar event. Additionally, various areas in Mexico are impacted by increasing violence and crime which may lead local residents to resist cooperating with the federal government and outside organizations and also to an increased military presence in those areas. Our operating activities may be interrupted if we are unable to hire qualified personnel or if we are denied access to the site where our properties are located due to social unrest or increased violence and crime. We may also be required to make additional expenditures to provide increased security in order to protect property or personnel located at our properties. Significant delays in exploration or increases in expenditures will likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in legislation affecting the mining industry could significantly affect our operations. As in other countries, legislation has been introduced in Mexico which would impose a royalty on production from mineral properties. In the event any such legislation was successfully passed and signed into law, it could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations. We do not insure against all of the risks to which we may be subject in our operations. While we currently maintain insurance against general commercial liability claims and the physical assets at our El Aguila Project, we do not maintain insurance to cover all of the potential risks associated with our operations. We might be subject to liability for environmental, pollution or other hazards associated with mineral exploration and development, which risks may not be insured against, which may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage, or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. We may also not be insured against interruptions to our operations. Losses from these or other events may cause us to incur significant costs which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fund activities on our property. A significant loss could force us to reduce or terminate our operations. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to develop our property is subject to the rights of the Ejido (local inhabitants) to use the surface for agricultural purposes. Our ability to mine minerals is subject to maintaining satisfactory arrangements with the Ejido for access and surface disturbances. Ejidos are groups of local inhabitants who were granted rights to conduct agricultural activities on the property. We must negotiate and maintain a satisfactory arrangement with these residents in order to disturb or discontinue their rights to farm. While we have successfully negotiated and signed such agreements related to the El Aguila Project, our inability to maintain these agreements or consummate similar agreements for new projects could impair or impede our ability to successfully mine the properties. Competition in the mining industry is intense, and we have limited financial and personnel resources with which to compete. Competition in the mining industry for desirable properties, investment capital and personnel is intense. Numerous companies headquartered in the United States, Canada and elsewhere throughout the world compete for properties on a global basis. We are an insignificant participant in the gold mining industry due to our limited financial and personnel resources. We presently operate with a limited number of personnel and we anticipate that we will compete with other companies in our industry to hire additional qualified personnel which will be required to successfully operate our mine and mill site. We may be unable to attract the necessary investment capital or personnel to fully explore and if warranted, develop our properties and be unable to acquire other desirable properties. We may require significant additional capital to fund our business plan. We will be required to expend significant funds to determine if proven and probable mineral reserves exist at any of our properties, to continue exploration and if warranted, develop our existing properties and to identify and acquire additional properties to diversify our property portfolio. We have spent and will be required to continue to expend significant amounts of capital for drilling, geological and geochemical analysis, assaying and feasibility studies with regard to the results of our exploration. We may not benefit from these investments if we are unable to identify commercially exploitable mineralized material. If we do locate commercially mineable material or decide to put additional properties into production, we may be required to upgrade our milling facility at the El Aguila Project or construct new facilities. Our ability to obtain necessary funding for these purposes, in turn, depends upon a number of factors, including the status of the national and worldwide economy and the price of gold and other precious metals. Capital markets worldwide have been adversely affected by substantial losses by financial institutions, in turn caused by investments in asset-backed securities. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing, or if we can obtain such financing, such financing may not be on terms that are favorable to us. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further mining operations or exploration and development and the possible partial or total loss of our potential interest in our properties. Since most of our expenses are paid in Mexican pesos, and we sell our production in United States dollars, we are subject to adverse changes in currency values that may adversely affect our results of operation. Our operations in the future could be affected by changes in the value of the Mexican peso against the United States dollar. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies such as the peso against the U.S. dollar increases expenses and the cost of purchasing capital assets in U.S. dollar terms in Mexico, which can adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. Conversely, depreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies usually decreases operating costs and capital asset purchases in U.S. dollar terms. The value of cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies also fluctuates with changes in currency exchange rates. Our activities are subject to significant environmental regulations, which could raise the cost of doing business or adversely affect our ability to develop our properties. Our mining operations are subject to environmental regulation by SEMARNAT, the environmental protection agency of Mexico. Regulations governing development of new projects or significant changes to existing projects require that an environmental impact statement, known in Mexico as a Manifiestacion de Impacto Ambiental, be prepared by a third party contractor for submission to SEMARNAT. Studies required to support this impact statement include a detailed analysis of many subject areas, including soil, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural resources and socio-economic impacts. We may also be required to submit proof of local community support for a project to obtain final approval. If an environmental impact statement is adverse or if we cannot obtain community support, our ability to develop our properties could be adversely affected. Significant environmental legislation exists in Mexico, including fines and penalties for spills, release of emissions into the air, seepage and other environmental damage, which fines or penalties could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation. The nature of mineral exploration and production activities involves a high degree of risk and the possibility of uninsured losses. Exploration for and the production of minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risk than many other businesses. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization, and any mineralization 7 Table of Contents discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Our operations are, and any future development or mining operations we may conduct will be, subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for and development of mineral properties, such as, but not limited to: • Economically insufficient mineralized material; • Fluctuation in production costs that make mining uneconomical; • Labor disputes; • Unanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems; • Environmental hazards; • Water conditions; • Difficult surface or underground conditions; • Industrial accidents; • Metallurgic and other processing problems; • Mechanical and equipment performance problems; • Failure of pit walls or dams; • Unusual or unexpected rock formations; • Personal injury, fire, flooding, cave-ins and landslides; and • Decrease in the value of mineralized material due to lower gold and silver prices. Any of these risks can materially and adversely affect, among other things, the development of properties, production quantities and rates, costs and expenditures, potential revenues and production dates. We currently have limited insurance to guard against some of these risks. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not likely to be recovered, we would incur a writedown of our investment in these interests. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are not recoverable, or result in additional expenses. We depend upon a limited number of personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. If any of our current executive employees or our principal financial consultant were to die, become disabled or leave our company, we would be forced to identify and retain individuals to replace them. Messrs. William, David and Jason Reid, and Mr. Juan Manuel Flores are our critical employees at this time. Paul E. Oberman is a financial consultant who provides services to us as chief financial officer. There is no assurance that we can find suitable individuals to replace them or to add to our employee base if that becomes necessary. We are entirely dependent on these individuals as our critical personnel at this time. We have no life insurance on any individual, and we may be unable to hire a suitable replacement for them on favorable terms, should that become necessary. In the event of a dispute regarding title to our property or any facet of our operations, it will likely be necessary for us to resolve the dispute in Mexico, where we would be faced with unfamiliar laws and procedures. The resolution of disputes in foreign countries can be costly and time consuming, similar to the situation in the United States. However, in a foreign country, we face the additional burden of understanding unfamiliar laws and procedures. We may not be entitled to a jury trial, as we might be in the United States. Further, to litigate in any foreign country, we would be faced with the necessity of hiring lawyers and other professionals who are familiar with the foreign laws. For these reasons, we may incur unforeseen losses if we are forced to resolve a dispute in Mexico or any other foreign country. We are required to annually evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on internal control over financial reporting. Such a report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our management. In addition, our evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls will be subject to an annual audit by our independent registered public accounting firm and there is no assurance that they will agree with our assessment. If we are unable to maintain and to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if we disclose material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm does not agree with our assessment, you could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 8 Table of Contents The laws of the State of Colorado and our Articles of Incorporation may protect our directors from certain types of lawsuits. The laws of the State of Colorado provide that our directors will not be liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors of the company. Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to indemnify our directors and officers against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law. The exculpation provisions may have the effect of preventing shareholders from recovering damages against our directors caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. The indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors and officers against claims, including claims arising out of their negligence, poor judgment, or other circumstances. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile and as a result you could lose all or part of your investment. In addition to volatility associated with equity securities in general, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: • Changes in the worldwide price for gold; • Disappointing results from our exploration or production efforts; • Producing at rates lower than those targeted; • Weather conditions, including unusually heavy rains; • Failure to meet our revenue or profit goals or operating budget; • Decline in demand for our common stock; • Downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or changes in general market conditions; • Technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; • Investor perception of our industry or our prospects; and • General economic trends. In the last 12 months, the price of our stock has ranged from a low of $15.06 to a high of $31.38. In addition, stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of securities have been highly volatile. These fluctuations are often unrelated to operating performance and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, you may be unable to resell your shares at a desired price. The sale of common stock by certain of our shareholders may depress the price of our common stock due to the limited trading market which exists. Due to a number of factors, including our stage of development and the past history of our common stock trading in the over the counter securities market prior to becoming listed on a national securities exchange, the trading volume in our common stock has been limited. Trading over the last 90 days has averaged approximately 200,000 shares per day. The sale of a significant amount of common stock by our principal shareholders, including Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited, may depress the price of our common stock. As a result, you may lose all or a part of your investment. A small number of existing shareholders own a significant amount of our common stock, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 18% of our common stock and our largest shareholder owns approximately 28% of our common stock as of February 28, 2012. Under our Articles of Incorporation and Colorado law, the vote of a majority of the shares outstanding is generally required to approve most shareholder action. As a result, this group may be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes for the foreseeable future, including votes concerning the election of directors, amendments to our Articles of Incorporation or proposed mergers or other significant corporate transactions. We have no existing agreements or plans for mergers or other corporate transactions that would require a shareholder vote at this time. However, you should be aware that you may have limited ability to influence the outcome of any vote in the future. We are subject to the Continued Listing Criteria of the NYSE Amex and our failure to satisfy these criteria may result in delisting of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE Amex. In order to maintain the listing, we must maintain certain share prices, financial and share distribution targets, including maintaining a minimum amount of shareholders’ equity and a minimum number of public shareholders. In addition to objective standards, the NYSE Amex may delist the securities of any issuer if, in its opinion, the issuer’s financial condition and/or operating results appear unsatisfactory; if it appears that the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the security has become so reduced as to make continued listing on the NYSE Amex inadvisable; if the issuer sells or disposes of principal operating assets or ceases to be an operating company; if an issuer fails to comply with the NYSE Amex’s listing requirements; if an issuer’s common stock sells at what the NYSE Amex considers a “low selling price” and the issuer fails to correct this via a reverse split of shares after notification by the NYSE Amex; or if any other event occurs or any condition exists which makes continued listing on the NYSE Amex, in its opinion, inadvisable. 9 Table of Contents If the NYSE Amex delists our common stock, investors may face material adverse consequences, including, but not limited to, a lack of trading market for our securities, reduced liquidity, decreased analyst coverage of our securities, and an inability for us to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. Issuances of our stock in the future could dilute existing shareholders and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have the authority to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and also to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock without stockholder approval. As of February 28, 2012, there were 52,902,620 shares of common stock outstanding. Future issuances of our securities could be at prices substantially below the price paid for our common stock by our current shareholders. In addition, we can issue blocks of our common stock in amounts up to 20% of the then outstanding shares without further shareholder approval. Because we experience lower trading volume in our common stock than many of our larger peers, the issuance of a significant amount of our common stock may have a disproportionately large impact on our share price compared to larger companies. Past payments of dividends on our common stock are not indictors of future payments of dividends. As of February 28, 2012, we have declared an instituted cash dividend on our common stock of $0.05 per share per month. However, our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend on a number of factors, including cash flow, development requirements and strategies, spot gold and silver prices and taxation and general market conditions. Further, a portion of our cash flow will likely be retained to finance our operations. Any material change in our operations may affect future dividends which may be modified at the discretion of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 