RISK FACTORS The following are risk factors that relate materially to our company and to an investment in our Preferred Shares or ADSs. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed if any of these risks materialize and, as a result, the trading price of our Preferred Shares or ADSs could decline and a holder of those securities could lose a substantial portion or all of his investment. Risks Related to Our Business Regulatory developments could affect our services, including placing restrictions on the rates we charge for our services, which could adversely impact our business. Our main activities, as well as the main activities of our competitors, are subject to regulation and inspection by the Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações ("Anatel"). The regulations enacted by Anatel and applicable to our activities include provisions regarding charges, fees, universalization, quality of services, net expansion, licenses, competition, changes in our corporate control (including participation by foreign investors), interconnection and other operational issues related to the functioning of our telecommunications net. Any changes in the laws, regulations or governmental policies applicable to the telecommunications sector or in the interpretation of such laws and regulations may have material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, it is not possible to predict which policies for the telecommunications sector will be adopted by the government in the future or the consequences of such policies to our business and the business of our competitors. The new concession contracts contain sections regarding the new Plano Geral de Metas de Qualidade (General Plan for Quality Targets; the “PGMQ”) and the new Plano Geral de Metas de Universalização (General Plan for Universalization Targets; the “PGMU”) related to (i) new targets for the universalization of services; (ii) change in the criteria for the charging of local calls, substituting pulses for minutes in the calculation of charges; (iii) new parameters for the adjustment of rates (the Telecommunications Industry Index (“IST”) became the official index to measure the sector inflation and adjust rates, although private-regime companies that compete with us do not require Anatel approval when setting their rates and may unilaterally determine the prices they charge for their services) and interconnection rates; and (iv) portability of fixed line telephone numbers. These changes may affect the financial balance of our concession contract and adversely affect our business and financial conditions. We are currently discussing certain terms of the new concession contract with Anatel to reconcile the face that such terms do not contemplate investments made by us to reach the previous targets determined by our old concession contract, the fact that we are to bear the costs associated with the new universalization targets and the fact that the IST may not accurately reflect inflation in a given period. We can not assure that we will be able to successfully challenge such provisions. Termination of Concession Contracts According to the General Telecommunications Law, as well as according to the Concession Contracts, the concessions are revocable in the following situations: non-renewal upon the expiration of the concessions; an extraordinary situation in which the public interest is in jeopardy, during which time the Brazilian government may operate our company. In such cases, the Brazilian government must be legislatively authorized to terminate the concession and our company must be indemnified; contractual, legal or free-will termination by us when an act or omission of the Brazilian government makes rendering services excessively burdensome to us, or: 12 Table of Contents the occurrence of: (a) a split-up, spin-off, amalgamation, merger, capital reduction or transfer of our corporate power without Anatel’s authorization; (b) the transfer of the concessions without Anatel’s authorization; (c) our dissolution or bankruptcy; or (d) an extraordinary situation where Brazilian government intervention, although legally possible, is not undertaken since such intervention would prove to be inconvenient, unnecessary or would result in unfair benefits for us. A proposed bill of law terminating monthly subscription fees may adversely affect our business and financial conditions. On May 12, 2004, the Consumer Defense Committee of the House of Representatives approved a bill of law proposing the termination of the monthly subscription fees charged for fixed-line services by Brazilian telephone concessionaires, including our company. The bill is still under consideration before the House of Representatives, where a special committee was created on June 3, 2005 to discuss and to make a report regarding the bill. The bill will be subject to the approval of the House of Representatives, the Senate and the President. In 2005 the revenue of monthly subscription fees charged for fixed-line was R$3.5 billion. Should this bill be approved, it may have an impact on our current rate structure and, as a result, our operations and competitive position could be adversely affected. We are subject to financial covenants and other contractual provisions under our existing indebtedness. Failure to comply with these provisions could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The agreements that govern our debt, including our credit facilities with National Bank for Social and Economic Development (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social – “BNDES”), contain a number of significant covenants, the failure to comply with which could adversely impact our business. In particular, the terms of these agreements restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to incur additional debt, make capital expenditures, grant liens, pledge assets, sell or dispose of assets and make certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations. Furthermore, in accordance with a number of our debt agreements, including our credit facilities with BNDES, we are required to comply with these covenants and maintain certain specified financial ratios in order to maintain the current maturity dates for these debt agreements. As a general rule, the occurrence of an event of default under a credit facility with BNDES may trigger the acceleration of other agreements representing our indebtedness. During December 2004, we initiated a process of adjusting the covenants related to certain agreements with BNDES, in order to fit them to the new reality of the telecommunications sector and our company. As part of this adjustment process, we and BNDES introduced a new mechanism in the credit facility agreements. In the event of a failure by us to comply with semi-annual financial covenants, instead of the right to accelerate the entire amount of the debt, which may trigger cross-defaults in our debt instruments, BNDES may request the retention of funds in a blocked account in an amount equivalent to three times the highest installment of principal plus interest due under such agreement.. If we, after the creation of such a blocked account, we again fail to comply with the financial covenants, then BNDES will have the right, but not the obligation, to declare the acceleration of the debt. The adjustment process extended these remedies to all BNDES agreements to which we are a party, effective as of December 31, 2004. Any failure by us to comply with the financial covenants of our debt instruments, and subsequent acceleration of our debt by BNDES, would have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our operations. On January 5, 2006, we announced that we intended to book provisions in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, in the amount of R$622 million (see description in PART II of this report in our Financial Statements). Such provisions, if booked, could affect our results and, accordingly, jeopardize the compliance in the fiscal year ended on December 31, 2005 until and including the third quarter of 2006 of financial covenants set forth in certain debt agreements, including the credit facilities with BNDES, and the Escritura de Emissão, 13 Table of Contents relating to the Debentures of the 4th issuance, being the 3rd public, the loan agreements entered into with Japan Bank of International Cooperation (“JBIC”) and with Sumitomo – Mitsui Banking Corporation. Therefore, prior to making the decision to book the provisions, we initiated negotiations with our creditors to adjust the affected financial covenants, in particular the ratio between EBTIDA and the financial expenses. On January 6, 2006, we entered into negotiations with BNDES and the financial institutions acting as its agents under the credit facilities. In view of our failure to comply with certain financial covenants, BNDES decided to retain funds in a blocked account equivalent to the highest installment plus interest due under agreement in an amount of approximately R$250 million. In February 2005, the agreements were amended to determine that the funds to be retained shall be equivalent to the highest installment plus interest, instead of three times such figure, as provided for in the initial amendment to the credit facilities. On January 30, 2006, the holders of our outstanding debentures of the 4th issuance approved an adjustment to the financial covenant relating to the ratio between Consolidated EBITDA and Consolidated Financial Expenses, contained in Section 4.19.1(e)(i) Escritura de Emissão from equal or higher than 2.25, to equal or higher than 1.5, as of the fourth quarter of 2005, until and including the third quarter of 2006. If we had not obtained this amendment, we would not have been in compliance with this financial covenant for the fourth quarter of 2005, when we reached a ratio of 2.17. See “Item 10. Additional Information – Material Contracts – Debentures – Escritura de Emissão.” On February 17, 2006, we signed the First Amendment to the Loan Agreement entered into with JBIC, dated March 18, 2004, and the First Amendment to the Loan Agreement entered into with Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, dated March 24, 2004. These amendments adjusted the financial covenants in each respective loan agreement relating to EBTIDA and the financial expenses from equal or higher than 2.25, to equal or higher than 1.5, as of the fourth quarter until and including the third quarter of 2006. For the fourth quarter of 2005 we achieved a Consolidated EBITDA over Consolidated Financial Expenses ratio of 2.17. See “Item 10. Additional Information – Material Contracts – JBIC – Guaranteed Loan.” Regarding the loan agreements with BNDES we failed to comply with the financial covenant of Brasil Telecom Participações’ consolidated results. The Consolidated EBITDA over Consolidated Financial Expenses ratio was supposed to remain above or equal to 2.50, but we reached 2.17 in the fourth quarter of 2006. Following the provisions established in the agreements, BNDES is running retention up to R$250 million of our cash investments, without penalties concerning interest or fees, which will be valid until we achieve the 2.50 ratio. On February 3, 2006, we obtained a waiver from BNDES in order to avoid the acceleration of the agreements in view of a potential failure to comply with the financial covenants in the first semester of 2006. See “Item 10. Additional Information – Material Contracts – JBIC – BNDES Loan Agreements.” Compliance with these covenants in future periods will depend upon our financial and operating performance, which may be affected by adverse business, market and economic conditions. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, or to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt agreements may be accelerated and the terms of our debt agreements may be otherwise amended adversely. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness." Certain beneficial owners directly or indirectly control a large percentage of our voting shares, and their interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders, including minority shareholders. Disputes among our controlling shareholders and entities that manage our controlling shareholders have had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our management and operations. We are controlled by Brasil Telecom Participações S.A., which is in turn controlled by Solpart Participações S.A. ("Solpart"), whose stockholders are Timepart, Techold and TII. As the controlling shareholder of Brasil Telecom Participações S.A., Solpart has the power to modify our business plan, modify our dividend plan and sell our material assets. As of the date of this annual report, control of Solpart, as well as certain actions taken by Solpart’s shareholders and their affiliates are the subject of a number of judicial and arbitration proceedings. 14 Table of Contents On March 9, 2005, International Equity Investments, Inc. as the sole shareholder of CVC/Opportunity Equity Partners LP (since renamed Citigroup Venture Capital International Brazil, LP) ("CVC LP") – which holds a direct stake in Brasil Telecom Participações S.A. and a substantial indirect stake in Zain Participações S.A. (“Zain”), a company that indirectly owns a majority of the voting interests in Solpart, and therefore indirectly owns a majority of the voting shares of Brasil Telecom Participações S.A. and our company, publicly announced the ouster of CVC/Opportunity Equity Partners, Ltd ("CVC Ltd"), currently named Opportunity Equity Partners, Ltd., (“Opportunity Ltd.”) from the management of CVC LP. Opportunity Ltd. was replaced by a new company incorporated abroad, Citigroup Venture Capital International Brazil LLC ("CVC International Brazil"). On March 9, 2005, CVC LP, in compliance with CVM/SEP/GEA-2 Written Notice 225/05 and the terms of CVM Instruction 358, announced that International Equity Investments, Inc. and CVC International Brazil had entered into certain agreements with Investidores Institucionais Fundo de Investimento em Ações (“Investidores Institucionais FIA”), Caixa de Previdência dos Funcionários do Banco do Brasil – Previ (“Previ”), Fundação dos Economiários Federais – Funcef (“Funcef”) and Fundação Petrobras de Seguridade Social – Petros (“Petros”), including a voting agreement with respect to their shares of Zain (collectively, the “Agreements”). Under the Agreements, CVC LP and Investidores Institucionais FIA, with combined holdings of approximately 90% of the voting shares of Zain, will jointly exercise the corporate control of Zain and Invitel S.A. (“Invitel”), a company controlled by Zain with approximately 68% of its voting shares, and in which Previ, Funcef, Petros and other Brazilian pension entities hold nearly all of the remaining shares. The Agreements also establish that the parties are to attempt to disinvest, under identical terms, jointly and in an organized manner, their shareholdings in Zain and Invitel, companies which control, among other companies, us, our Parent, and our subsidiary, 14 Brasil Telecom Celular S.A. (“BrT Celular”). In connection with the execution of the Agreements, Previ, Funcef and Petros signed the Put Option on Shares Issued by Zain granting CVC LP a put option on its Zain shares, which may be exercised under certain circumstances during a limited period of time, but not before November 2007. CVC LP’s right to exercise the put option is conditioned on the occurrence of certain future events, some of which are beyond the control of CVC LP, Investidores Institucionais FIA, Previ, Funcef and Petros. If CVC LP exercises its put option, the exercise price is set at R$1,045,941,692.43, adjusted by the variation of the IGP-DI Index + 5% p.a. The fulfillment of the conditions to the exercise of such put option granted by Previ, Funcef and Petros does not depend and is not tied to the occurrence of any operation or business involving, directly or indirectly, property or other assets owned by Zain, Invitel or any of their controlled companies, including us, our Parent and BrT Celular. On April 12, 2005, Anatel issued a decision approving among other things: (i) the replacement of Opportunity Ltd. by CVC International Brazil as the general partner of CVC LP; (ii) the replacement of CVC/Opportunity Equity Partners Administradora de Recursos Ltda. by Angra Partners Consultoria Empresarial e Participações Ltda. as the new manager of Investidores Institucionais FIA, an indirect shareholder of Brasil Telecom Participações S.A. and Brasil Telecom S.A.; and (iii) certain changes resulting from the Agreements entered into by CVC LP and Investidores Institucionais. This decision was published in the Federal Gazette (Diário Oficial) on April 14, 2005. After reviewing our appeal filed by prior management related to Opportunity Ltd., Anatel upheld its April 12, 2005 decision. On October 6, 2003, Fundação 14 de Previdência Privada (“Fundação 14”), successor to Fundação Sistel de Seguridade Social, was prevented by the other shareholders of Investidores Institucionais FIA from exercising its voting rights at the Investidores Institucionais FIA's Unitholders Meeting. At such meeting, Banco Opportunity S.A. was ousted from the administration of Investidores Institucionais FIA. Consequently, Fundação 14 brought an ordinary action before the 5th Federal Court of Rio de Janeiro against Previ and several investors in Investidores Institucionais FIA, seeking a declaration that the resolutions adopted at the Investidores Institucionais FIA's Unitholders Meeting held on October 6, 2003 were invalid. On May 18, 2005, an injunction granted on May 17, 2005 in favor of Fundação 14 by a federal tribunal in Rio de Janeiro, which would have allowed Banco Opportunity S.A. to return to the management of Investidores Institucionais FIA’s was revoked by a decision granted by Superior Tribunal de Justiça (“STJ”), the highest Brazilian court for non-constitutional matters; in the proceeding SLS 128. On July 12, 2005, Fundação 14 filed before the 5th Federal Court of Rio de Janeiro a motion to abandon this lawsuit. To the best of our knowledge, this STJ decision is being challenged by Banco Opportunity S.A. 15 Table of Contents On July 27, 2005, at an Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting of our Parent, the shareholders removed and replaced the members of the board. The new board members assumed their board positions on August 25, 2005, and at their first formal meeting replaced the officers of our Parent. At an Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meeting held on September 30, 2005, our shareholders removed and replaced the prior members of our Board of Directors (except for Mr. Antonio Cardoso dos Santos, who was elected by the holders of our preferred stock and remains a director). Also on September 30, 2005, our newly constituted Board of Directors replaced all of the senior officers with a new management team, including Mr. Ricardo Knoepfelmacher, as Chief Executive Officer, Charles Lagana Putz, as Chief Financial Officer and Investor Relations Officer, Luiz Francisco Tenorio Perrone as Human Resources Officer, and Francisco Aurelio Sampaio Santiago as Network Officer. Subsequently, at an Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meetings held on November 17, 2005 and January 12, 2006, our shareholders removed and replaced the members of our fiscal council (which functions as our audit committee for purposes of SEC and NYSE rules and regulations). The process of replacing the directors and officers of Brasil Telecom Participações S.A. and Brasil Telecom S.A. was litigious, as evidenced by various lawsuits filed by our former managers and their affiliates in an attempt to resume their former management roles. While we cannot predict the cumulative effect of this ongoing litigation on our business and results of operations, extensive litigation regarding ownership of our company creates uncertainty with respect to the identity of our current and future management, which may impair our ability to carry out our business plan. ASSESSMENT OF THE ACTIONS OF OUR FORMER MANAGERS UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF OPPORTUNITY LTD. In observance of their fiduciary duties, under the terms of the applicable legislation, the current management of Brasil Telecom Participações S.A. and the current management of Brasil Telecom S.A. have performed and continue to perform internal investigations of the businesses and operations conducted by the former managers appointed by Opportunity, Ltd. In the course of such investigations, the current managers identified management acts indicating abuse of controlling power, breach of fiduciary duties, and conflict of interest, as well as various violations of Brazilian law and Companies Bylaws. Therefore, in accordance with a notice to shareholders released on December 12, 2005, we filed a formal complaint with the CVM - the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission, against our former management, Opportunity Fund and other individuals and companies, both domestic and foreign, linked to our former management, who have been involved with, or participated in any way, or benefited from the actions which are the object of the formal complaint. On March 21, 2006, a second formal complaint, as an amendment to the first complaint, was submitted to CVM, in light of new management actions identified. We intend to pursue all appropriate legal measures to recover potential losses and damages suffered, consistent with our best interests and fiduciary obligations. On April 28, 2006, at Ordinary and Extraordinary Meetings of Shareholders of Brasil Telecom S.A. and Brasil Telecom Participações S.A., the shareholders of each company approved the filing of damages lawsuits against prior management. Despite the potentially misleading actions of our prior management as described above, to the knowledge of our management, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the company as of, and for, the periods presented in this report. ISSUES ARISING OUT OF OVERLAPPING OF LICENSES WITH A TELECOM ITALIA AFFILIATE When we received the certification of achievement of universalization targets for 2003, established by Anatel, we were already providing fixed telephone services (“PSTN”) at domestic local and long distance modalities (“DLD”) intra-regional in Region II of the General Concession Plan (“PGO”). 16 Table of Contents After the achievement of such targets, Anatel, in January 2004, issued authorizations enlarging our potential areas of operations: PSTN local and LDN in Regions I and III of PGO (and in a few sectors of Region II); International Long Distance Call (“ILD”) in Regions I, II and III of PGO; mobile telephone, by means of our subsidiary BrT Celular, in Region II of Personal Mobile Service (“SMP”). Our existing concession agreements were also expanded, allowing LDN calls to any Brazilian territory. If TII acquires an indirect controlling interest in our Parent, TII and TIM could be viewed as affiliated companies under the Brazilian telecommunications law. As a result, our ability to render domestic (NLD) and international (ILD) fixed telephone services, as well as mobile telephone services, in the same regions as TIM, would be at risk of partial restriction or revocation by Anatel. On January 16, 2004, Anatel issued Act 41,780, establishing a period of 18 months during which TII could reacquire an indirect controlling interest in our company, as long as TII neither participated nor voted on any issues related to the overlapping services offered by us and TIM, including domestic and international long distance calls and mobile telephone services. On June 30, 2004, the Administrative Council for Economic Defense – CADE, in the records of Writ of Prevention 08700.000018/2004 -68, set forth restrictions on the exercise of control rights by TII and its representatives over the Boards of Directors of Solpart, our Parent and our company. On April 28, 2005, certain TII affiliates and BrT Celular purported to enter into various corporate agreements, including an instrument called “Merger Agreement” and a “Protocol” related thereto. The April 28, 2005 agreements alleged that the proposed merger was justified as a possible solution to the overlapping regulatory licenses and authorizations with TIM, and to avoid sanctions and penalties which could be imposed by Anatel. Certain actions contemplated by these agreements have since been forbidden by injunctions issued by the US and Brazilian courts. The agreements are also subject to legal challenges by our indirect shareholders. Regardless of whether the validity of the April 28, 2005 agreements is confirmed, there is the possibility that assets related to our fixed and mobile segments (see Note 43) will eventually lose their value as a result of overlapping operations or sanctions issued by Anatel. It is possible that these agreements will be declared null and void by courts or in arbitration proceedings, which would remove TII from the control block of that group, eliminating the overlapping concessions and consequently, the regulatory risks. Nevertheless, it is not possible at this time to anticipate such legal developments and their future effects on our operations or financial statements. On July 7, 2005, Anatel declared, by means of Act 51,450, that the counting of an 18 month term to solve the overlapping of licenses would start on the date of the effective return of TII to our control group. On July 26, 2005, Anatel, by means of Order 576/2005, declared that the counting of term would start on April 28, 2005. Therefore, according to Anatel, the interested companies shall adopt the measures necessary to eliminate the overlapping of licenses until the end of the 18 month term, October 2006, under the penalty of legal sanctions, which may affect either companies or both of them. Depending on the final decision of Anatel, the threatened sanctions could have a material adverse effect on the business and operations of us and our subsidiary, BrT Celular. On March 15, 2006, we and our subsidiary, BrT Celular, began an arbitration against TIM International N.V. (“TIMINT”) and TIM Brasil Serviços e Participações S.A. (“TIMB”), seeking to annul the Merger Agreement. We disclosed such arbitration in a material fact on March 16, 2006. On May 2, 2006, TIMINT and TIMB announced their decision to terminate the Merger Agreement. In the same letter, TIMINT and TIMB reserved their alleged rights under sections 10.3 and 11.1 of the Merger Agreement. The arbitration that we brought against the Merger Agreement continues. LAWSUITS AND INJUNCTIONS AFFECTING OUR OPERATIONS Disputes among controlling shareholders We are unable to predict the outcome of the disputes related to the overlap of licenses and whether such disputes will be resolved without the issuance by Anatel of any sanctions or penalties. In addition, the disputes among the shareholders of Solpart, including the dispute over the ownership structure of Solpart, and management 17 Table of Contents of entities which hold a stake in Brasil Telecom Participações S.A. and Zain may result in changes to our board and/or senior management. Delays in payment or defaults of our clients for long periods may adversely affect our business. On March 31, 2006, we accounted losses related to accrued receivables in the amount of R$112.8 million, as a result of the default of subscribers, which correspond to 3.1% of our consolidated net earnings during the period ended on that date. Subscribers “in default” are those who fail to pay their bills within 30 days of their maturity date. Anatel requires us to render our services to all consumers, notwithstanding their credit history. Therefore, we may not select our subscribers or refuse to provide our services to certain subscribers, except if such subscriber has failed to pay past debts with us. High levels of default for long periods may adversely affect our business, our financial health and operational results. Problems with billing, invoicing and collection services may adversely affect our earnings. On July 2003, users were given the option to use our code to complete calls from mobile handsets. By Resolution No. 343, dated as of July 17, 2003, Anatel established that carriers shall render invoicing and collection services to other carriers with which they had entered into traffic agreements. Upon the certification that we had achieved the then established universalization targets, we were authorized to complete long distance national and international calls. We have entered into agreements with several carriers to include on our telephone bills the long distance services rendered by such carriers, as well as the long distance services rendered by other collective interest carriers. Any problems with the execution of invoicing and collection services by other carriers may adversely affect our levels of bad debts. Any reduction in the offer of products by suppliers may adversely affect us. We rely on several technology, equipment and services suppliers. Any difficulty in obtaining these products, due to, for example, a decrease in supply, excessive demand by global telecommunication players (causing product price pressure), discontinuity in the operations of one or more relevant suppliers (including bankruptcy or production problems), problems with the transfer or any other factor which affects the supplying of goods, may jeopardize either our expansion plans or the continuity of our services. We sponsor employee social security plans and any changes in the regulations regarding mortality rates may require us to book additional provisions on our financial statements. The amount, frequency and duration of our contributions to employee social security employees plans is directly related to the mortality rate, which represents the average life span of employees, among other factors. Any change in these criteria may result in the need to contribute for longer periods in comparison to those initially provided. Consequently, we may be compelled to book additional provisions on our financial statements, which may adversely affect our results. We may need to enter financing agreements with third parties in order to conclude potential strategic acquisitions carry on new transactions, effect regulatory investments, and maintain wireless and fixed telephone line plants. We may not be able to bear financing demands through funds arising out of ordinary cash flow and may need to enter into financing agreements with third parties in the future. Such financing may not be available to us in acceptable and competitive conditions or indeed in market conditions. If we are unable to obtain financings on terms favorable to us or at all, our transactions and operations may be materially and adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Problems with sophisticated information and processing systems may cause significant adverse effects on our financial status and operational results. Our sophisticated information and processing systems are vital for our growth and our ability to monitor costs, collect debts, detect frauds, provide services to consumers, reach operational efficiency and accomplish service targets, particularly in view of the increase in competition in our region. The updating and modernization of our systems may not be sufficient to avoid future flaws in each of these systems, which may have a significant adverse effect on our financial status and operational results. We may be required to obtain certain environmental licenses or fines may be levied against us for the failure to obtain such licenses. In Brazil, environmental licenses are regulated specially by Resolution No. 237/97, enacted by the National Environmental Council (“CONAMA”). This resolution lists those activities that require an environmental license and also establishes compulsory licensing for certain activities which may produce significant potential environmental impacts. In Brazil, federal, state and local governments each have the authority to determine whether an activity may potentially result in significant environmental effects and, consequently, demand and award environmental permissions for the implementation of these activities. Our regular operations include the installation and maintenance of cables, wires and transmission antenna towers in our operating region. The installation and maintenance of cables, wires and transmission antenna towers are not referred to in CONAMA Resolution No. 237/97 as activities that require previous compulsory licenses. We cannot be assured, though, that a jurisdiction will not interpret installation and maintenance as activities that may potentially cause environmental impacts and therefore require us to obtain an environmental license for the implementation of these activities. If we are compelled to obtain environmental licenses in some jurisdictions and we fail to obtain these licenses, we may be subject to the imposition of fines, which may vary from R$500 to R$10 million, total or partial suspension of those activities, and/or civil and criminal sanctions. According to environmental crimes law (Law nº 9.605/98), the criteria for the imposition of fines include the degree of the violation, taking into account the motivation for the violation, the consequences for public health and for the environment, and the criminal precedents of the agent regarding the accomplishment of environmental law and its economic capacity. The imposition of fines or the compliance with these environmental regulations may have a significant adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Risks Related to the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry We face increasing competition in all segments of the Brazilian telecommunications industry, and the telecommunications industry may not continue to grow or may grow at a slower rate than in the past. This may have a material adverse effect on our market share, margins, results of operations and financial condition. The telecommunications industry in Brazil is becoming increasingly competitive. Our public-regime fixed-line concessions are not exclusive, and Anatel could grant additional private-regime authorizations in our region. Our fixed-line services are also subject to competition from wireless service providers. However such competition is still limited by the fact that rates for wireless calls are currently much higher than rates for calls on our fixed-line network. We also face competition from wireless service providers in the low end of the market through the offer of prepaid plans by such wireless providers. To date, Telemar Norte Leste S.A. ("Telemar"), Empresa Brasileira de Telecomunicações S.A. ("Embratel"), Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda ("Intelig"), Telecomunicações de São Paulo S.A. ("Telesp"), Global Village Telecom ("GVT"), Telmex do Brasil Ltda ("Telmex"), Fonet Brasil Ltda ("Fonet"), and Novação Telecomunicações Ltda ("Novação") have been granted permission by Anatel to provide local fixed telecommunications services in the totality of our Region. Additionally, to date, TNL PCS S.A. ("Oi"), Embratel, Intelig, Telesp, GVT, Albra Telecomunicações Ltda ("Albra"), TIM Celular S.A. ("TIM Cellular"), and Easytone Telecomunicações Ltda ("Easytone") have been granted permission by Anatel to provide long distance telecommunications services in the totality of our Region. Now we also have to compete in our region against competitors from outside of our region that offer fixed-line, mobile, data local and/or long distance telecommunications services throughout Brazil. Increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our market share, margins, results of operations and financial condition. Since 19 Table of Contents January 2004, we have developed the ability to counteract losses in our market share in the local fixed-line market by providing interregional and international long-distance telecommunications services. In September 2004, we commenced offering wireless services. Wireless services are equally competitive and we face competition in Region II from (i) a joint venture between Telefônica and Portugal Telecom (marketed under the brand name "Vivo"), (ii) Telmex, which competes against us in our region through América Móviles (marketed under the brand name "Claro"), (iii) TIM Cellular, (iv) Sercomtel Celular, and (v) CTBC Celular. Competition for wireless telecommunications customers may require us to increase our costs and marketing expenses or provide services at lower rates than those we currently expect to charge for such services. Competition in data transmission services is not subject to regulatory restrictions. The market is open to a great number of competitors. Increased competition in data transmission services may require us to reduce the rates we charge for data transmission services. In addition, the Brazilian telecommunications industry is consolidating, which results in larger competitors with greater resources. There can be no assurance that increased competition in all segments of the Brazilian telecommunications industry will not have a material adverse effect on our market share, margins, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to continue to compete successfully will depend on the success of our marketing, financial and other resources (including our access to capital) in comparison to our competitors and on our ability to anticipate and respond to competitive factors affecting the industry, including the introduction of new services, changes in consumer preferences, changes in regulation, demographic trends, economic conditions, discount pricing strategies by competitors as well as further industry consolidation. Currently, we compete with our competitors primarily on the basis of features, pricing and customer service. However, we cannot predict exactly which factors in the future will be important in maintaining our competitive position, such as the increasing need to offer promotions, discounts and other marketing initiatives, or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide the necessary technologies, products and services to remain competitive. An inability to compete in any of these factors may adversely affect our market share, margins, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may also face increased competition due to unbundling regulations. On May 13, 2004, Anatel issued Order (Despacho) 172, which establishes rules for partial unbundling of local telephone networks, which we refer to as "line sharing", and full unbundling of local telephone networks, and requires us to make our networks available to other telecommunications service providers. This legislation limits the rate we can charge for line sharing per line for broadband speeds of up to 512 kbps. Additional charges, such as co-location charges, are applied over the line sharing base price, increasing the total cost of the unbundled line. Anatel has not yet fixed rates for full unbundling, although we expect that these rates will be lower than the rates we currently are permitted to charge. This regulation was designed to increase competition in the local fixed-line and broadband internet access markets by making it easier for new telephone companies operating under either the public or private regime to enter these markets and for existing providers to provide new services or enter new regions, since the networks of all telecommunications service providers, including fixed-line operators such as us, will be made available at lower rates. Similarly, this legislation makes it easier for us to provide new services and enter into new regions in competition with other operators. However, operational rules for the implementation of unbundling have not yet been agreed to among Brazilian telecommunications operators. These regulations are recent, and as of December 31, 2005 no unbundled lines had been used by competitors in our region. We cannot assure that we can compete without suffering an adverse impact on market share, margins, and results of operations or financial condition based on the implementation of unbundling. Moreover, cable television services companies offer telecommunication services, and there are other alternatives to render telecommunication services, such as satellite transmission and VoIP. Another example is the conversion of fixed-line telephone users to wireless telephone users. These changes may lead to the migration of some of our subscribers, resulting in a reduction in earnings, which may adversely affect our company. Any economic, technological or other developments resulting in a slowdown in growth or a reduction in demand for our fixed-line or other services may harm our business and revenues. To remain competitive we must diversify further our services, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. 20 Table of Contents We depend on other telecommunications services providers. We may not be able to enter into favorable interconnection and unbundling agreements. In order to receive or send calls from or to customers of other fixed-line and wireless Brazilian networks and international networks, we must interconnect with the networks of our competitors. The Brazilian General Telecommunications Law requires all telecommunications service providers to interconnect their networks with those of other providers on a non-discriminatory basis. The rates to be paid by one fixed-line network operator to the other for the use of each other's fixed-line network are currently regulated by Anatel. The current interconnection model is asymmetric, with higher rates in effect for mobile interconnection than fixed-line interconnection. As a result, mobile operators generally retain more than 80% of net revenues from fixed-to-mobile calls, while fixed-line carriers, like us, usually offer this service incurring negative margins. In light of such imbalance, Anatel established that from July 2004 on, interconnection rates for wireless networks (the VU-M) would be freely negotiated. The companies agreed to establish a provisional readjustment and submit the final decision to Anatel’s arbitrage under the telecommunication sector legislation. We can not assume that Anatel’s arbitrage regarding the interconnection tariffs will be favorable to us. If Anatel’s decision is unfavorable to us, our operating and financial results may be adversely affected. The failure to implement the technology necessary to assess and combat fraud on our network could adversely affect our results of operations. The fraudulent use of telecommunications networks imposes a significant cost upon service providers, who must bear the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. We suffer loss of revenue as a result of fraudulent use, and also cash costs due to our obligation to reimburse carriers for the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. During 2004, we installed a Fraud Management System to detect and prevent fraud. In addition to a system to monitor customers' usage based on their traffic behavior, we implemented a system to keep subscribers under close surveillance. The fraud system is based on a signaling network and has an interface to the call-blocking platform in order to limit revenue loss once fraudulent use has been identified. We cannot guarantee that our Fraud Management System will effectively detect and prevent fraud. In addition, there can be no assurance that all operators with which our network is interconnected have appropriate anti-fraud treatment in their networks. In 2001, we created a fraud management department to provide specialized customer service to customers affected by fraud. During fiscal year 2002, several automated procedures were created and placed in various parts of our operations to detect and control possible abnormalities that could represent fraudulent activities. These controls have a preventive function, and work both pro-actively and, should a fraud occur, reactively. In 2003, we implemented controls to capture fraud events automatically, such as a non-billing mechanism for fraud-blocked terminals, a cut-off limit system for service usage, and a webpage to gather any fraud claims from the community. At the end of 2003, we created the IT Revenue Assurance Group, which develops systems to assist the revenue assurance department in fraud combating. During 2004, the Group implemented a significant number of applications to monitor and detect fraud in different areas including public telephone, bad debt, revenue chain, key performance indicators and others. These actions achieved a better level of control and mitigated the risk of loss from fraud as compared to previous years. We cannot guarantee that these fraud control measures will continue to be accurate and effective to reach the desired level of fraud control. We continue to deploy and implement the technology necessary to assess the accuracy and effectiveness of our fraud combative procedures. Should we not be able to correctly quantify and combat fraud on our network, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Developments in the global telecommunications industry and technology are difficult to predict, and a failure by us to respond to such developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. All companies in the global telecommunications industry must adapt to rapid and significant changes in technology that are often difficult to anticipate. While we have been upgrading our network with technologically advanced fiber optic cable with a microwave overlay, it is possible that our network will be challenged by competition from improved or new technologies in the future. Technological changes may adversely affect our competitive position, require substantial new capital expenditures and/or require write-offs of obsolete technology. 21 Table of Contents If we fail to implement technological advances, we may be unable to continue to compete in the global telecommunications industry. The mobile telephone sector, in particular, requires considerable technological developments, constant capacity, quality and digital technology data transmission speed improvements, shorter development periods of new cycles and changes due to users' needs and preferences. New technologies, superior to the ones used by BrT GSM may be developed. Furthermore, it is expected that Anatel will promote 3G (Third Generation) mobile telephone auctions in the near future, which will allow eventual buyers of such licenses to adopt technological platforms which allow the offer of more advanced mobile telephone services than those allowed by our current mobile platform. Thus, it cannot be assured that we will remain competitive due to the adoption, in due time, of the new technologies, as they are developed. In the event of a natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance or for economic reasons, the Brazilian government could temporarily seize or permanently expropriate our assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Brazilian government has the authority to temporarily seize all assets related to telecommunications concessions in the event of natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance, threats to internal peace, or for economic reasons and other reasons related to national security. In addition, the Brazilian government has the statutory right to permanently expropriate any telecommunications concession and claim any related assets for reasons of public interest. Brazilian law provides for compensation in connection with losses and damages related to temporary seizure or expropriation. However, in the event of a temporary seizure or expropriation of any of our assets there can be no assurance that the actual compensation paid would be adequate or that such payment would be timely. An inadequate or untimely payment would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Restructuring of Governmental Regulatory Agencies may adversely affect the transactions of our company. A bill of law subject to the approval of National Congress provides for the administration, organization and social controlling of Governmental Regulatory Agencies, such as Anatel. The purpose of this bill of law is to change the structure, functioning and competence of those agencies, by, among other measures: (i) implementing administration agreements to be entered into by and between the agencies and the correspondent related ministries; (ii) creating public hearings on the agencies, with the purpose of controlling the services rendered and monitoring the internal process of adjudication of accusations and complaints by citizens, either against the agencies’ activities or the entities subject to their control; (iii) changing the mandates of managers, including presidents and directors, to four years; and (iv) transferring the authority to award concession licenses for rendering public services to ministries, leaving for the agencies the task of regulating, inspecting, monitoring bid proceedings and awarding authorizations for the operation of services under private-regime. Considering the level of political influence over the ministries, the agencies may be subject to further instability in their administration, which may trigger unexpected changes on regulation and policies affecting public services concessionary companies, such as our company. We cannot foresee the impact of the approval of the referred bill of law on our transactions and our competitive position. The failure to accomplish Anatel’s targets may result in the imposition of sanctions and penalties on our company. We are required to accomplish targets established by the Federal Government and Anatel. Due to the public nature of the services rendered by our company, according to the terms of the Concession Contracts and of the applicable regulation, we must cover a geographic area and comply with targets on the execution of the services rendered. In this regard, the PGMU and the PGMQ also provide for targets that we must achieve. Potential consequences of our failure to comply with such targets include the imposition of fines and/or other penalties and 22 Table of Contents the termination of our concession contract, which may cause significant financial loss to business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Operations in Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and the market price of the Preferred Shares underlying our ADSs. Substantially all of our operations and customers are located in Brazil. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are substantially dependent on Brazil's economy, which has been characterized by frequent and occasionally drastic intervention by the Brazilian government and volatile economic cycles in the past. The Central Bank reduced the base interest rate (“SELIC”) from 17.75% in December 2004 to 15.75% in April 2006. Facing the economic, political and inflation indicators during 2005, the Central Bank increased the SELIC to 19.75% between June and September 2005. In 2002, as a reaction to political and economic uncertainties, the global economic downturn, the crisis in Argentina and the Brazilian presidential elections, the dollar appreciated by 52.3% against the real to R$3.5333 per US$1.00 at December 31, 2002. The real recovered in 2003, appreciating by 18.2% to R$2.8892 per US$1.00, at December 31, 2003. In 2004, the real appreciated by 8.1% against the dollar, quoted at R$2.6544 per US$1.00 on December 31, 2004. In 2005, the real appreciated by 13.4% against the dollar, quoted at R$2.3407 per US$1.00 on December 31, 2005. We cannot guarantee that the real will not substantially devalue again in the future. In the past, the Brazilian government has often changed monetary, fiscal, taxation and other policies to influence the course of Brazil's economy. We have no control over and cannot predict what measures or policies the Brazilian government may take in response to the current Brazilian economic situation or how Brazilian government intervention and government policies will affect the Brazilian economy and, both directly and indirectly, our operations and revenues. Our operations, financial condition and the market price of our Preferred Shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by changes in policy involving exchange controls, tax and other matters, as well as factors such as: fluctuations in exchange rates; base interest rate fluctuations; fiscal and taxation legislation changes; inflation; and other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments within and outside Brazil that affect the country. On January 1, 2003, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva from the Labor Party took office as the new President of Brazil. Although the government has not departed significantly from the economic policies of the former administration, the real appreciated 13.4% against the dollar during 2005 and concerns remain about the future policies of the Brazilian government. While the current administration's policies to date have not been adverse to the telecommunications industry, uncertainty over the future economic policies of the Brazilian government may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian international securities markets, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally the Presidential Election is expected to occur in October 2006 in Brazil. The President of Brazil has considerable power to change the future economic policies of the Brazilian government. The election may change government political policies and the elected administration may implement new policies. We cannot 23 Table of Contents predict what policies will be adopted and we cannot predict their effect on the economy, our business or our results of operations. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our revenues and the market price of the Preferred Shares and ADSs may be reduced. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation, with annual rates of inflation reaching as high as 2,489.1% in 1993 (according to the Brazilian National Consumer Price Index (¥ndice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor published by the Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística (“IBGE”). Inflation and governmental measures to combat inflation have both in the past had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. In 1994 the Brazilian Government introduced the Plano Real (“Real Plan”) with the objective of reducing inflation and building a base to sustainable economic growth. Since the introduction of Plano Real, inflation has remained at stable levels, substantially below prior periods. However recent international events like the emerging markets crisis, the US terrorist attacks, and the subsequent military conflicts, have caused and may continue to cause destabilization in international markets. These events may affect the Brazilian economy in the form of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the Plano Real, interest rate increases, oil price increases, and, consequently, increases in the rate of inflation. In 2003, the inflation rate measured by the Extensive Consumer Price Index (“IPCA”) was 9.3% above the established initial target of 4% with 2 percentage points of tolerance above and below the target. In 2004 the established target was 5.5% with 2.5 percentage points of tolerance above and below the target. For 2005 and 2006 the established target was/is 4.5% with 2.5 percentage points of tolerance. The measured inflation by IPCA in 2005 was 5.7% and until March 31, 2006 the cumulative inflation was 1.4%. Actions taken to combat inflation and public speculation about possible future actions have also contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our costs may increase, and our gross profit may be affected to the extent that our rate increases and our net operating revenues do not keep up with the rate of inflation. Additionally, our service debt and the cost of new financial funding may increase. We cannot predict the effect that an inflation increase would have on our financial condition, our capacity, our cash generation, or our operational results. Devaluation of the real may lead to substantial losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies and a reduction in our revenues. During the last four decades, the Brazilian Central Bank has periodically devalued the Brazilian currency. The exchange rate between the real and the dollar has varied significantly in recent years. For example, the real/dollar exchange rate fell from R$1.9554 per dollar at December 31, 2000 to R$3.5333 at December 31, 2002. In 2003, the real appreciated in value by 18.1% to R$2.8892 per dollar. In 2004 the real appreciated in value by 8.1% to R$2.6544 per dollar. In 2005 the real appreciated in value by 13.4% to R$2.3407 per dollar. A significant amount of our financial assets and liabilities are denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, primarily dollars. As of December 31, 2005, R$1,064.1 million or 21.7% of our financial indebtedness was denominated in a foreign currency. When the Brazilian currency is devalued, we incur losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, such as our dollar-denominated long-term debt and foreign currency loans, and experience gains on our monetary assets denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, as the liabilities and assets are translated into reais. If devaluation occurs when the value of such liabilities significantly exceeds the value of such assets, including any financial instruments entered into for hedging purposes, we could incur significant reduction in our revenues, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. This could adversely affect our ability to meet certain of our payment obligations. A failure to meet certain of our payment obligations could trigger a default in certain financial covenants in our loan and credit facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to delays and delinquency on our accounts receivable. 24 Table of Contents Our business is affected by customers' ability to pay their bills. If the Brazilian economy worsens because of, among other factors: the level of economic activity; inflation; devaluation of the real; or an increase in domestic interest rates, a greater portion of our customers may not be able to pay their bills, which would increase our bad debts and provisions for doubtful accounts. Strict regulation from Anatel prevents us from implementing certain policies that could have the effect of reducing delinquency, such as service restrictions or limitations on the types of services provided based on a subscriber's credit record. Losses from accounts receivable reached R$449.3 million in 2005, against R$411.3 million in 2004 and R$298.0 million in 2003, increasing in percentage of gross revenues terms, from 2.7% in 2003 to 3.2% in 2004 and 3.1% in 2005. However, if economic conditions worsen in Brazil or if we are unable to implement policies to limit subscriber delinquencies or otherwise select our customers, persistent subscriber delinquencies and bad debt can adversely affect our financial results. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Provision for Doubtful Accounts." Any increase in taxes levied on the telecommunications sector in connection with tax reforms expected to be implemented in the future could affect the results of our operations. Increases in Brazil's already high level of taxation could adversely affect our profitability. Increases in taxes for the telecommunications sector usually result in higher tariffs for our customers. High tariff levels generally result in lower levels of usage of our services and, therefore, lower net sales. Lower net sales result in lower margins because a significant portion of our costs are fixed and thus do not vary substantially based on the level of usage of our network or our services. Although mobile and fixed services are equally taxed, there can be no assurance that the Brazilian government will not increase current tax levels, at state and/or federal levels, and that this will not adversely impact our business. In December 2003, the Federal Senate approved part of a tax reform bill, the text of which was consolidated in Constitutional Amendment 42, enacted on December 19, 2003. Constitutional Amendment 42 provides for an extension on the assessment of the Provisional Contribution of Financial Transfers (Contribuição Provisória sobre Movimentação Financeira - "CPMF"), the assessment of Programa de Integração Social ("PIS"); and Contribuição para Financiamento da Seguridade Social ("COFINS") taxes on import transactions, and the assessment of COFINS under a non-cumulative regime. Certain issues that were under discussion in 2003, related to taxes on the commercialization of goods and rendering of services, were not included in Constitutional Amendment 42 and may be discussed again in 2007. Some important issues originally provided for in the tax reform bill relate to: (i) harmonization of ICMS tax rules, which would be governed by a single federal legislation applicable to all states; (ii) equalization of ICMS rates; and (iii) limitations on granting tax incentives. If approved, such measures will be gradually adopted in 2007. Additionally, the Federal Senate has discussed the merger of the ICMS and IPI into a single federal tax assessed upon the commercialization of goods and rendering of interstate and intermunicipal transportation and communication services. We cannot guarantee that, if the merger of the ICMS and IPI is accomplished, certain tax incentives granted to us in the past will continue to be granted, and cannot determine the effect that a cessation of such tax incentives may have on our results of operations. See "Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation." Proposed changes in Brazilian labor law may affect our labor relations. In April 2003, the Lower House reopened discussions regarding changes in the Brazilian Labor Law (Consolidação das Leis do Trabalho, or CLT). A further revision of union relations in Brazil is also under discussion in the Lower House. Although the progress of these proposed modifications has slowed during the last 25 Table of Contents year as political forces have showed some resistance, we cannot predict the effect on any such modifications on our labor relations, which could have a negative effect on our business. It may be difficult to effect service of process upon, or to enforce foreign judgments upon us, our directors and our officers. We are organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets, and most or all of the assets of our directors and officers, are located in Brazil. As a result, it may be difficult for an ADS holder to effect service of process within the United States or other jurisdictions outside of Brazil upon us or such persons. In addition, because substantially all of our assets and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors or officers may not be collectible within the United States. There is a doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended the (“Securities Act”) or the U.S. Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) pursuant to original actions instituted in Brazil. Risks Related to Our Preferred Shares and American Depositary Shares Our ADS holders may not have the same rights with respect to voting, dividends, distributions, and preemptive rights, among others, that may expose our ADS holders to greater risk than holders of our Preferred Shares. Our ADS holder may not have the same voting rights as holders of our Preferred Shares. Under our Bylaws and Brazilian Corporation law, in the limited circumstances where holders of our Preferred Shares are able to vote, an ADS holder will be able to exercise voting rights with respect to the Preferred Shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are practical limitations upon an the ability of holders of our ADSs to exercise voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with such holders. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders" and “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Voting Rights." An ADS holder that is a resident of the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights or certain other rights with respect to our Preferred Shares. A holder of our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the ADSs unless a registration statement is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not required to file a registration statement relating to preemptive rights with respect to our Preferred Shares, and there can be no assurance that we will file any such registration statement. If a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, Citibank, N.A., as depositary (the "Depositary"), will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and our ADS holders will be entitled to receive their share of the proceeds of the sale. However, the preemptive rights will expire if the Depositary cannot sell them, and therefore we cannot guarantee that our ADS holders will be able to either exercise their preemptive rights or receive the proceeds from their sale. For a more complete description of preemptive rights with respect to our Preferred Shares, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association." Pursuant to our deposit agreement with the Depositary, any payments of cash dividends and distributions that we may make will be made in Brazilian currency to Banco Bradesco S.A., as custodian for the Preferred Shares underlying our ADSs, on behalf of the Depositary. The Depositary will then convert such proceeds into dollars and cause such dollars to be delivered to the Depositary for distribution to our ADS holders. Holders of ADSs could be adversely affected by devaluations of the Brazilian currency that may occur due to delays in, or a refusal to grant, any required government approval for conversions of Brazilian currency payments and remittances abroad in connection with the Preferred Shares underlying our ADSs. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Dividends." We may agree with the Depositary to modify the deposit agreement at any time without the consent of the holders of our ADSs. We will give holders of our ADSs 30 days' prior notice of any modifications that would materially prejudice any of their substantial rights under the deposit agreement. After receipt of such notice, our ADS holders will be bound by the modifications to the deposit agreement if such holders continue to hold ADSs after the modifications to the deposit agreement become effective. 26 Table of Contents Holder of ADSs may have fewer and less well-defined shareholders' rights than in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Bylaws and Brazilian Corporation Law, which may differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Under Brazilian Corporation Law, the holders of our Preferred Shares and our ADSs may have fewer and less well-defined rights to protect their interests relative to actions taken by our board of directors or the holders of our Common Shares than under the laws of other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, rules and policies against self-dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may not be as detailed, well-established and enforced in Brazil as in the United States, which may potentially disadvantage the holders of our Preferred Shares and/or ADSs. For example, when compared to Delaware corporation law, Brazilian Corporation Law and practice has less detailed and well-established rules, and fewer judicial precedents relating to the review of management decisions involving duty of care and duty of loyalty standards in the context of corporate restructurings, transactions with related parties and sale-of-business transactions. In addition, shareholders in Brazilian companies must hold at least 5.0% of the outstanding share capital of a corporation in order to have standing to bring shareholders' derivative suits. Furthermore, shareholders in Brazilian companies ordinarily do not have standing to bring class action suits. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may substantially limit an ADS holder's ability to sell the Preferred Shares underlying the ADSs at the price and time desired. Brazilian investments, such as investments in our securities, are subject to economic and political risks that may affect the ability of investors to receive payment, in whole or in part, in respect of their investments, including, among others: changes in the regulatory, tax, economic and political environment; and restrictions on foreign investment and on repatriation of capital invested. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major U.S. and European securities markets, and are not as highly regulated or supervised as those markets. As a consequence, the trading volume of our ADSs has traditionally been relatively low. Even if the trading volume of our ADSs increases, we can give no assurance that it will be maintained or will result in a desirable stock price. As a result of this relatively low trading volume, it may be difficult to identify buyers to whom our ADS holders can sell their ADSs, and the ability of our ADS holders to sell the Preferred Shares underlying the ADSs may be substantially limited. Furthermore, the trading price of our ADSs representing Preferred Shares is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Developments in other countries may affect the Brazilian economy and the market price of our Preferred Shares and our ADSs. The securities of Brazilian issuers have been influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries, especially other emerging market countries. Since the end of 1997, and in particular during 2001 and 2002, the international financial markets have experienced significant volatility as a result of economic problems in various emerging market countries. Investors subsequently have had a heightened risk perception for investments in such markets. As a result, in some periods, Brazil has experienced a significant outflow of dollars and Brazilian companies have faced higher costs for raising funds, both domestically and abroad and have been impeded from accessing international capital markets. We cannot assure investors that international capital markets will remain open to Brazilian companies, including our company, or that prevailing interest rates in these markets will be advantageous to us or that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. As a consequence, the market value of our securities may be adversely affected by these or other events outside of Brazil. See “Item 9. The Offer and Listing — Offer and Listing Details." There can be no assurances that future events elsewhere, especially in emerging market countries, will not have an adverse effect on the market value of our Preferred Shares and our ADSs. 27 Table of Contents Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an impact on the taxes applicable to the disposition of the ADSs. According to Law 10,833, enacted on December 29, 2003, capital gains earned by a non-Brazilian resident upon the sale of assets located in Brazil to a Brazilian resident or to another non-Brazilian resident are subject to Brazilian withholding tax. Considering the general and unclear scope of Law 10,833 and the absence of judicial guidance in respect thereof, we cannot predict the exact scope of Law 10,833 or the effect that Law 10,833 will have on holders of our ADSs or Preferred Shares. 