Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report before you decide to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our securities could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company We have never generated revenues or profits from operations and we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. We are a development stage company and have not generated revenues from operations or been profitable since inception, and it is possible we will never achieve profitability. We have devoted our resources to developing a new generation of therapeutic products, but such products cannot be marketed until clinical testing is completed and governmental approvals have been obtained. Accordingly, there is no current source of revenues from operations, much less profits, to sustain our present activities, and no revenues from operations will likely be available until, and unless, our product candidates are clinically tested, approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies and successfully marketed, either by us or a partner, an outcome which we are not able to guarantee. We have limited capital resources and will need to raise additional funds to support our operations. We have experienced significant operating losses in funding our research, development and clinical testing of product candidates, accumulating operating losses totaling over $89 million as of December 31, 2006, and we expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $51.7 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in securities and we do not expect to generate positive net cash flows for the foreseeable future. We will need to raise significant amounts of additional capital to finance our ongoing operations. We cannot be certain we will be able to obtain such financing on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that it will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay or reduce the scope of our research and development programs or attempt to continue development by entering into arrangements with partners or others that, if available at all, may not be on favorable terms and may require us to relinquish some or all of our rights to our product candidates or the financial benefits thereof. Based on our current loss rate and existing capital resources as of the date of the filing of this report, we estimate that we have sufficient funds to sustain our operations at their current levels for at least the next twelve months; however, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not require additional funds earlier. Because we do not know whether our clinical research and development programs will progress at the rates expected, it is difficult to estimate our projected capital needs beyond our current spending levels. We will seek to raise additional capital and may do so at any time and may do so through various financing alternatives, including selling shares of our common or preferred stock and rights to acquire our common or preferred stock, licensing or selling our technologies and product candidates, or through the issuance of one or more forms of senior or subordinated debt. Each of these financing alternatives carries certain risks. Raising capital through the issuance of common stock may depress the market price of our stock and may substantially dilute our existing stockholders. If we instead seek to raise capital through licensing transactions or sales of one or more of our technologies or product candidates, then we will likely need to share a significant portion of future revenues from these product candidates with our licensees. Additionally, the development of any product candidates licensed or sold to third parties will no longer be in our control and thus we may not realize the full value of any such relationships. Debt financing would likely involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as 23 Table of Contents prohibitions on our ability to create liens or make investments and may, among other things, preclude us from making distributions to stockholders (either by paying dividends or redeeming stock) and taking other actions beneficial to our stockholders. Our ability to timely raise capital may be impaired if we became ineligible to file shelf registration statements on Form S-3. We will become ineligible if we fail to comply with all applicable requirements of Form S-3, including filing in a timely manner all reports required to be filed by us. Though we are a small company with limited resources, we are subject to the wide-ranging laws and regulations applicable to public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which may impair our ability to timely and completely comply with the requirements of Form S-3. If we are unable to raise additional capital to fund future operations, then we may be required to reduce operations or defer or abandon one or more of our clinical or pre-clinical research programs. Further testing of our product candidates will be required and there is no assurance of FDA approval. Human pharmaceutical products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and other approval procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Various federal and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate U.S. and foreign statutes and regulations are time-consuming and require the expenditure of substantial resources. In addition, these requirements and processes vary widely from country to country. The effect of government regulation and the need for FDA approval will delay commercialization of our product candidates for a considerable period of time, impose costly procedures upon our activities, and provide an advantage to larger companies that compete with us. There can be no assurance that the FDA or other regulatory approval for any products developed by us will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Even though we have an agreement under the SPA process for our Phase III clinical trial of CoFactor in the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, the FDA may still require additional studies or data before granting marketing approval for CoFactor, if such approval is ever granted. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, approvals would materially and adversely affect the marketing of any contemplated products and the ability to earn product revenue. Further, regulation of manufacturing facilities by state, local, and other authorities is subject to change. Any additional regulation could result in limitations or restrictions on our ability to utilize any of our technologies, thereby adversely affecting our operations. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. In addition, if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; and • our reputation may suffer. 24 Table of Contents Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product candidate, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements related to the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the product. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval in the United States, we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States. In order to market any products outside of the United States of America, or the U.S., we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. As described above, such effects include the risks that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and have an adverse effect on potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. Positive results in our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not ensure that future clinical trials will be successful or that our product candidates will receive the regulatory approvals necessary for their commercialization. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that each product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Success in preclinical testing and clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be 25 Table of Contents successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in FDA policy for drug approval during the period of product development and FDA regulatory review of each submitted new drug application, or NDA. There is a significant risk that any of our product candidates could fail to show satisfactory results in continued trials, and would not justify further development. A failure to obtain requisite regulatory approvals or to obtain approvals of the scope requested will delay or preclude us from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of the products, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect intense competition in the marketplace for CoFactor and in the target markets for our other product candidates. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and rapidly changing. If successfully developed and approved, all of our product candidates will likely compete with existing and new products and therapies and our competitors may succeed in commercializing products more rapidly or effectively than us, which would have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ANX-510, or CoFactor, our leading product candidate, would likely compete against a well-established generic product, leucovorin, as well as isovorin, which is marketed primarily in Japan. In addition, there are numerous companies with a focus in oncology and/or anti-viral therapeutics that are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases as are targeted by the products being developed by us. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition in the future as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. There is no assurance that existing products or new products developed by competitors will not be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than those we may market and sell. Competitive products may render our products and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Companies likely to have products that will compete with CoFactor, such as Wyeth and Roche, and our other product candidates have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources and are better equipped to develop, manufacture, market and distribute products. Many of these companies have extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products and have products that have been approved or are in late-stage development and operate large, well-funded research and development programs. Other companies, such as Merck Eprova, which manufactures folates, may be developing products which compete with CoFactor. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations are becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their inventions and are actively seeking to commercialize the technology they have developed. If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval do not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues we generate from their sales will be limited. Our success will depend in substantial part on the extent to which our products for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are accepted by the medical community and reimbursement of them by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including, among other things: • limitations or warnings in a product’s approved labeling; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and efficacy of our products and our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • availability of alternative treatments; • the product’s perceived advantages over existing treatment methods (including relative convenience and ease of administration and prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects); 26 Table of Contents • pricing and cost-effectiveness; • reimbursement and coverage policies of government and third-party payors; and • the prevalence of off-label substitution of chemically equivalent products. We cannot predict or guarantee that physicians, patients, healthcare insurers or maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any of our products. If our products are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by these parties, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products to become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors regarding the benefits of our products may require significant resources and may never be successful. We are subject to uncertainty relating to healthcare reform measures and reimbursement policies that, if not favorable to our products, could hinder or prevent our products’ commercial success. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely effect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues or achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability to us of capital. If we are successful in getting FDA approval for CoFactor, we will compete with leucovorin, a generic drug, which has a lower cost and a long, established history of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize CoFactor will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. These payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement, particularly for new therapeutic products. Accordingly, even if coverage and reimbursement are provided, market acceptance of our products would be adversely affected if the amount of coverage and/or reimbursement available for the use of our products proved to be unprofitable for healthcare providers. There have been federal and state proposals to subject the pricing of healthcare goods and services, including prescription drugs, to government control and to make other changes to the U.S. healthcare system. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which became effective January 1, 2006, and mandates other reforms. While we cannot predict the full outcome of the implementation of this legislation, it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in additional government reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may make some prescription drugs more affordable but may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. It is uncertain if future legislative proposals, whether domestic or abroad, will be adopted that might affect the product candidates in our programs or what actions federal, state, or private payors for healthcare treatment and services may take in response to any such healthcare reform proposals or legislation. Any such healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on the marketability of any products for which we ultimately require or receive FDA approval. 27 Table of Contents We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce. Delays in the commencement or completion of preclinical testing or clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues. We set goals for and make public statements regarding our estimates of the timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to any number of factors, including delays or failures in our preclinical testing and clinical trials and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process. We have an active preclinical program that we use to assess the merits of potential product candidates and future research and development activities. Delays in our preclinical program could occur for a number of reasons, including: • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs; • failures on the part of our CROs in developing study procedures or otherwise conducting the studies on timeframes requested by us; • changes in regulatory requirements or other standards or guidance relating to preclinical testing, including testing of pharmaceutical products in animals; • a lack of availability of animals that are suitable for the types of studies we plan to conduct; and • unforeseen results of preclinical testing that require us to amend study designs or delay future preclinical testing, clinical trials and related regulatory filings. In addition, we do not know whether planned clinical trials or timelines for enrollment in our Phase III clinical trial of CoFactor for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer will commence on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • identifying appropriate trial sites and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, trial sites and clinical investigators, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs, trial sites and clinical investigators; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same indication as our product candidates; and • retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. For example, we are seeking to enroll 1,200 patients in our Phase III clinical trial of CoFactor for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. Currently, because bevacizumab, a component of the study, is typically not reimbursed outside the U.S., we are seeking to enroll patients only in the U.S. and, accordingly, the potential pool of patients for our study is correspondingly limited. If we chose to enroll patients outside the U.S., we will most likely be required to, among other things, reimburse the cost of bevacizumab and engage CROs to assist with these overseas trials, all of which will add substantial cost to the study. 28 Table of Contents In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance relating to clinical trials may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to institutional review boards for reexamination or renegotiate terms with CROs, trial sites and clinical investigators, all of which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. There can be no assurance that our preclinical testing and clinical trials will commence or be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, our clinical trials or preclinical testing, the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials or preclinical testing may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we are able to ultimately commercialize our product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market and established a competitive advantage. We rely in part on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and other aspects of our research and development programs. We do not possess research and development facilities necessary to conduct all of the activities associated with our research and development programs. We engage consultants, advisors and CROs to design and conduct clinical trials in connection with the development of our product candidates. As a result, these important aspects of our product candidates’ development are outside our direct control. In addition, there can be no assurance that such third parties will perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us or will perform those obligations satisfactorily. The CROs with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and subsequent collection and analysis of data, and we will likely depend on other CROs and clinical investigators to conduct our future clinical trials or assist with our on-going clinical trials. For instance, for our CoFactor phase III clinical trial, we rely on Synteract, Inc., for data management, biostatistics and pharmacovigilance, and Pharmatech, Inc., for site management and enrollment support, both of which are CROs. Individuals working at these companies, as well as clinical investigators at the sites at which our clinical trials are conducted, are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If these CROs fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our clinical trials, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our applications to regulatory agencies and our introduction of our products. Failure of these CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, these CROs may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. We do not have manufacturing capabilities and may not be able to effectively develop manufacturing capabilities or contract for such services from third parties on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We do not have any manufacturing capability. We meet our manufacturing requirements by establishing relationships with third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of clinical trial material and we anticipate establishing relationships with third-party manufacturers for the commercial production of our products, though we 29 Table of Contents do not have any long-term agreements or commitments for the supply of these materials or products. We cannot ensure that we will be able to establish relationships with third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to establish relationships with third parties for our manufacturing requirements on commercially acceptable terms would have a material and adverse effect on us. Even if we successfully establish relationships with third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, our manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. In addition, all manufacturers of our products and product candidates must comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program, as well as applicable requirements of foreign regulatory authorities. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products and product candidates may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. We have little control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. Furthermore, the manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing and shortages of qualified personnel. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to provide product candidates to patients in our clinical trials may be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our research and development programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the trials completely. We cannot ensure that manufacturing or quality control problems will not arise in connection with the manufacture of our products or product candidates, or that third-party manufacturers will be able to maintain the necessary governmental licenses and approvals to continue manufacturing such products or product candidates. Any of the above factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products and product candidates may adversely affect our future costs and our ability to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. Our success will depend on patents and other protection we and our licensors obtain on our product candidates and proprietary technology. Our success will depend in part on our ability and, in certain cases, our licensors’ ability to: • obtain and maintain patent protection with respect to our products; • maintain our licenses; • prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; • maintain trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others; and • obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement would otherwise occur, both in the U.S. and in foreign countries. The patent and intellectual property positions of biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no guarantee that we or our licensors have or will develop or 30 Table of Contents obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology we develop or have developed or that is licensed to us. In addition, we cannot be certain that patents issued or licensed to us will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, including by our competitors, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, patent applications in the U.S. are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors of any patent or patent application owned or licensed to us were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and patent applications or that such inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and others. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance, however, that binding agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. In addition, there can be no assurance that inventions relevant to us will not be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. Our market opportunity for CoFactor may be limited by the lack of composition-of-matter patents in territories outside the United States and Canada. We do not hold composition-of-matter patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of CoFactor outside the United States and Canada. Composition-of-matter patents are widely viewed as the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products as they apply without regard to any method of use or other type of limitation. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredients as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use or formulation patents that we may hold. The principal patent protection that covers, or that we expect will cover, CoFactor outside the United States and Canada is method-of-use patents. This type of patent protects the product only when used or sold for the specified method. This type of patent does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside of the patented method. Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive identical product for off-label indications that are covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method of use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. We have licensed several of our product candidates from third parties and, if we default on any of our obligations, we could lose rights to our product candidates. We have licensed rights to our product candidates that are important to our business, and we expect to enter into similar licenses in the future. For instance, the license agreement pursuant to which we license our lead product candidate, CoFactor, which is also the agreement pursuant to which we license ANX-540, or Selone, and the license agreement pursuant to which we license ANX-201, or Thiovir™, permit the licensor, the University of Southern California, or USC, to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, such as our failure to use our reasonable (for CoFactor and the compounds in our organoselenones program) or diligent (for ANX-201) efforts to commercialize the licensed technology or the occurrence of any other uncured breach by us. In addition, in January 2006, we further amended the license agreement pursuant to which we license ANX-201 such that, among other things, we became subject to certain development milestone obligations that, if not achieved, provide USC a 30-day right to terminate the underlying license. These license agreements also provide that the licensor is primarily responsible for obtaining patent protection for the technology licensed, and we are required to reimburse the licensor for the costs it incurs in performing these activities. These license agreements also require the payment of specified royalties. Any inability or failure to observe these terms or pay these costs or royalties could result in the termination of the applicable license agreement in certain cases. The termination of any license agreement could have a material and adverse effect on us. 31 Table of Contents The United States government and the University of Southern California retain certain rights in the technologies we have licensed from the University of Southern California. The technologies developed by the University of Southern California were developed in part through funding provided by the U.S. government. Therefore, in addition to the University of Southern California’s termination rights described above, our licenses are subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free right of the U.S. government and the University of Southern California to practice the licensed technologies for research purposes and, in the case of the U.S. government, other governmental purposes on behalf of the U.S. and on behalf of any foreign government or international organization pursuant to any existing or future treaty or agreement with the U.S., but only to the extent that the government funded the research. The government also reserves the right to require us to grant sublicenses to third parties when necessary to fulfill public health and safety needs or if we do not reasonably satisfy government requirements for public use of the technology. In addition, the University of Southern California has the right to use all improvements to the licensed technology for research and educational purposes. Although we are currently the only parties licensed to actively develop the technology, we cannot assure you that the government will not in the future require us to sublicense the technology. Any action by the government to force us to issue such sublicenses or development activities pursuant to its reserved rights in the technology would erode our ability to exclusively develop our products and product candidates based on the technology and could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. Licenses of technology developed through funding provided by the U.S. government, including the University of Southern California licenses, require that licensees — in this case, us — and our affiliates and sub-licensees agree that products covered by the licenses will be manufactured substantially in the U.S. We cannot assure you that we will be able to contract for manufacturing facilities in the U.S. on favorable terms or obtain waivers of such requirement, or that such requirement will not impede our ability to license our products or product candidates to others. If we are unable to contract for manufacturing facilities in the U.S. or obtain an appropriate waiver, we risk losing our rights under the University of Southern California licenses, which could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. If we are sued for infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have an adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends on our ability and the ability of our future collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our future collaborators are or may be developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our products and product candidates may give rise to claims that our products or product candidates infringe the rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to publish and issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our products, product candidates or technologies infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products, product candidates and/or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of these patents was found to cover our products, product candidates, technologies or their uses, we or our future collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our technologies or methods unless we or they are able to obtain a license to the patent or intellectual property right. A license may not be available to us or our future collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, a patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable remedy that could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; 32 Table of Contents • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to our products; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, technology or methods. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our field, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, technology or methods. In addition, it may be necessary for us to enforce patents under which we have rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights, which may affect our rights. There can be no assurance that our owned or licensed patents would be held valid by a court or administrative body or that an alleged infringer would be found to be infringing. The uncertainty resulting from the mere institution and continuation of any technology-related litigation or interference proceeding could have a material and adverse effect on us. We currently have no sales capability, and limited marketing capability. We currently do not have sales personnel. We have limited marketing and business development personnel. To commercialize our products, we will have to acquire or develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or rely on marketing partners or other arrangements with third parties for the marketing, distribution and sale of products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to establish marketing, distribution or sales capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform those activities on terms satisfactory to us, or that any internal capabilities or third party arrangements will be cost-effective. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution infrastructure will require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and negatively impact our product development efforts. In addition, any third parties with which we establish marketing, distribution or sales arrangements may have significant control over important aspects of the commercialization of our products, including market identification, marketing methods, pricing, composition of sales force and promotional activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to control the amount and timing of resources that any third party may devote to our products or prevent any third party from pursuing alternative technologies or products that could result in the development of products that compete with, or the withdrawal of support for, our products. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of March 1, 2007, we had 24 full-time employees. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage our operations and clinical trials, continue our research and development programs and commercialize our product candidates. Our management and personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • manage our clinical trials effectively, including our Phase III clinical trial for CoFactor, which is being conducted at numerous distinct clinical trial sites; • manage our internal development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to collaborators and other third parties; 33 Table of Contents • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and; • attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. We have engaged in and may continue to engage in opportunistic acquisitions of companies and intellectual property, which could negatively affect our business and operations. In April 2006, we acquired SD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., including its portfolio of product candidates. We intend to continue to be opportunistic in acquiring products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business or complement our existing product candidates. There are risks associated with such activities. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a prospective merger partner, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integrating acquired businesses, facing resistance from customers or employees, and being unable to profitably deploy assets acquired in the transaction. Additional country- and region-specific risks are associated with transactions outside the U.S. To the extent we issue securities in connection with additional transactions, these transactions and related issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and our ownership. Our operations, financial condition, and prospects after a merger or acquisition depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired products, business or technologies. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings. Any cost savings which are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to operations. We may be unable to retain skilled personnel and maintain key relationships. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific and other personnel, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading research institutions and consultants and advisors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions, particularly in the San Diego, California area. We are currently dependent upon our scientific staff, which has a deep background in our product candidates and our research and development programs. Recruiting and retaining senior employees with relevant product development experience in cancer and infections diseases is costly and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such individuals on an uninterrupted basis and on commercially acceptable terms, and the failure to do so could have a material and adverse effect on us by significantly delaying one or more of our research and development programs. The loss of any of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, president/chief medical officer, chief scientific officer or our vice president, medical affairs, in particular, could have a material and adverse effect on us and the market for our common stock, particularly if such loss was abrupt or unexpected. None of our employees is obligated to provide services to us for any particular period of time. We do not have non-competition agreements with any of our employees. Furthermore, even if we successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, we may not select individuals with the appropriate skills for the jobs for which they are hired or that integrate well with our existing personnel. Underperforming employees and internal friction may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and negatively impact our product development efforts. In addition, we may incur costs and liabilities terminating our employment relationship with unsatisfactory employees. We face potential product liability exposure and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product or product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. In the future, we anticipate that we will need to obtain additional or increased product liability insurance coverage and it is uncertain that such increased or additional insurance coverage can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Our business (in particular, the use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of our products for which we obtain marketing approval) will expose us to product liability risks. Product liability claims might be 34 Table of Contents brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products or product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our products and product candidates. We maintain $10 million in limited product liability insurance for our clinical trials, but our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval of any of our product candidates, but we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance on commercially acceptable terms or that we will be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential losses. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. If a trademark infringement action is commenced against us regarding the use of our corporate name, we could be required to pay monetary damages and/or change our name. In March of 2005, we received correspondence from Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its parent, Sanofi-Aventis, or collectively Sanofi, in which Sanofi asserted that our use of the word “ADVENTRX” infringes upon their trademark “AVENTIS” and demanded that we discontinue use of the word ADVENTRX. In May of 2005, we responded with a letter in which we outlined reasons why we believe that our name, ADVENTRX, does not infringe on Sanofi’s trademark, AVENTIS. Since our response, counsels for both parties have exchanged further communications and Sanofi has made further inquiries regarding our use of the “ADVENTRX” mark. In June 2006, we received a letter from counsel to Sanofi that, based on the fact that we do not own any registrations or applications for the ADVENTRX name and that Sanofi is not aware of any instances of actual confusion in the marketplace, Sanofi has decided not to take any further action. Sanofi indicated that, if we attempt to secure trademark/service mark registration protection for the ADVENTRX name or should instances of actual confusion come to Sanofi’s attention, it will reevaluate its position. Accordingly, Sanofi may take legal action in the future, including proceeding with an action for trademark infringement. Depending upon the circumstances, an adverse result in a trademark infringement action could require the payment of monetary damages by us and/or changing our corporate name. Changes in laws and regulations that affect the governance of public companies have increased our operating expenses and may continue to do so. Recently enacted changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and AMEX listing requirements, as well as disclosure requirements related to executive and director compensation, have imposed new duties on us and on our executives, directors, attorneys and independent accountants. In order to comply with these new rules, we have hired additional personnel (and may hire additional personnel) and engaged outside legal, accounting and advisory services, which have increased and are likely to continue increasing our operating expenses. In particular, we expect to incur additional administrative expenses as we continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to extensively evaluate and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls. For example, we have incurred significant expenses, and expect to incur additional expenses, in connection with the evaluation, implementation, documentation and testing of our existing and newly 35 Table of Contents implemented control systems. Management time associated with these compliance efforts necessarily reduces time available for other operating activities, which could adversely affect operating results. If we are unable to achieve full and timely compliance with these regulatory requirements, we could be required to incur additional costs and expend additional money and management time on additional remedial efforts, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Market prices for our securities and the securities of other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have historically been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • changes in the regulatory status of CoFactor and our other product candidates, including results of our clinical trials and other research and development programs; • FDA or international regulatory actions and regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events (including clinical trial results) by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • developments concerning intellectual property rights generally or those of our or our competitors; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our products or product candidates; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or deviations in our business and the trading price of our common stock from the estimates of securities analysts; • events affecting our existing in-license agreements and any future collaborations, commercial agreements and grants; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or pursuant to effective shelf registration statements that register shares of our common stock that may be sold by certain of our current stockholders; • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • third party reimbursement policies. The realization of any of the foregoing could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that such sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by, or the perceived possibility of sales by, our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. In addition, we have filed shelf registration statements to register shares of our common stock that may be sold by certain of our stockholders, which may increase the likelihood of sales by, or the perception of an increased likelihood of sales by, our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult, which could depress our stock price. Alternatively, prohibitions on anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may restrict us from acting in the best interests of our stockholders. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our bylaws limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders and establish advance notice requirements for nomination for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the Board of Directors approves the transaction. Our Board of Directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our Board of Directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In addition, provisions of certain contracts, such as stock option agreements under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan and employment agreements with our executive officers, may have an anti-takeover effect. In particular, we agreed with each of our president/chief medical officer and chief financial officer that, among other things, in the event of our acquisition, 50% of any unvested portion of an option we granted to them would vest upon such acquisition, with the remaining unvested portion vesting monthly over the 12 months following such acquisition. As a result, if an acquirer desired to retain the services of our president/chief medical officer or our chief financial officer following an acquisition, it may be required to further incentive each with additional options or other securities, which may deter or affect the terms of an acquisition or potential acquisition. In connection with a July 2005 private placement, we agreed with the investors in that transaction that we would not implement certain additional measures that would have an anti-takeover effect. As a result, under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are prohibited from dividing our Board of Directors into classes and adopting or approving any “rights plan,” “poison pill” or other similar plan or device. A classified board of directors could serve to protect our stockholders against unfair treatment in takeover situations, by making it more difficult and time-consuming for a potential acquirer to take control of our Board of Directors. A company may also adopt a classified board of directors to ensure stability in the board of directors and thereby improve long-term planning, which may benefit stockholders. A “poison pill” or similar plan or device may encourage potential acquirers to discuss their intentions with the board of directors of a company and avoid the time, expense and distraction of a hostile take-over. Any benefit to us and our stockholders from instituting a classified board or adopting or approving a “poison pill” or similar plan or device in these and other circumstances would be unavailable unless and until we amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers and directors and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock and their affiliates, in aggregate, beneficially own approximately 22.2% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006. These persons, if acting together, will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholders’ approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control our management and affairs. Further, the interests of significant stockholders may be different than yours and they may support transactions that you feel are not in your best interest. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by delaying or preventing a change in control of our company at a premium price even if beneficial to our other stockholders. 37 Table of Contents Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Furthermore, we are subject to various laws and regulations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Accordingly, the success of your investment in our capital stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation and there is no guarantee that our capital stock will appreciate in value. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 