Risk Factors You should consider the following risks as well as the other information set forth in this annual report when evaluating an investment in our company. In general, investing in the securities of issuers in emerging market countries, such as Brazil, involves a higher degree of risk than investing in the securities of issuers in the United States. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or those that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Any of the following risks could materially affect us. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. Risks Relating to the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry and Our Company Our fixed-line telecommunications services face increased competition from mobile services providers, other fixed-line service providers and cable television service providers, which may adversely affect our revenues and margins. Our fixed-line telecommunications services in Region II (which consists of the Federal District of Brazil and nine states of Brazil located in the western, central and southern regions of Brazil) face increasing competition from mobile services as the prices for mobile services decline and approach those of fixed-line services. Based on information available from ANATEL, from December 2006 to December 2009, the number of fixed lines in service in Brazil increased from 38.8 million to 41.5 million. We expect (1) the number of fixed lines in service in Brazil to continue to stagnate or decline, as certain customers eliminate their fixed-line services in favor of mobile services, and (2) the use of existing fixed lines to decrease as customers substitute calls on mobile phones in place of fixed-line calls as a result of promotional mobile rates (such as free calls within a mobile provider’s network). The rate at which the number of fixed lines in service in Brazil declines depends on many factors beyond our control, such as economic, social, technological and other developments in Brazil. In addition, new fixed lines that we install are expected to be less profitable than existing ones because new fixed-line customers generally have lower average incomes than our existing customers, subscribe to our lower cost service plans and generate fewer chargeable minutes of usage. Our traditional local fixed-line telecommunications services represented 36.5% of our gross operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Because we derive a significant portion of our operating revenue from our traditional local fixed-line telecommunications services, a reduction in the number of our fixed-lines in service would negatively affect our operating revenue and margins. We also compete in the market for local fixed-line services with other fixed-line service providers, primarily with Empresa Brasileira de Telecomunicações – Embratel, or Embratel, and GVT S.A., or GVT. Embratel competes with us for residential customers through services that it provides using the cable infrastructure of its affiliate, Net Serviços de Comunicação S.A., or Net. Net is a cable television company that is our main competitor in the broadband services market. Embratel and Net are affiliates of Teléfonos de México S.A.B. de C.V., or Telmex, one of the leading telecommunications service providers in Latin America. Under an agreement entered into between Embratel and Net in November 2005, Net offers integrated voice, broadband and pay television services to the Brazilian residential market through a single network infrastructure. In addition, we compete with smaller companies that have been authorized by ANATEL to provide local fixed-line services in Region II. Embratel, GVT and Net are each controlled by multinational companies that may have more significant financial and marketing resources, and greater abilities to access capital on a timely basis and on more favorable terms, than our company. Our loss of a significant number of fixed-line customers would adversely affect our gross operating revenue and may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, because callers in Brazil placing long-distance calls from their fixed-line telephones generally tend to select the long-distance carrier affiliated with the provider of their fixed-line service, our loss of a significant number of fixed-line customers may adversely affect our revenues from long-distance services and our results of operations. For a detailed description of our competition in the local fixed-line services market, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Competition—Local Fixed-Line Services.” 6 Table of Contents Our mobile services face strong competition from other mobile services providers, which may adversely affect our revenues. The mobile services market in Brazil is extremely competitive. We had an estimated 16.0% share of the mobile services market in Region II as of December 31, 2009, based on information available from ANATEL. We face competition in Region II from large competitors such as Vivo Participações S.A., or Vivo, Telecom Americas Group, which markets its services under the brand name “Claro,” and TIM Participações S.A., or TIM, which had estimated market shares of 31.5%, 28.3% and 23.9% in Region II, respectively, as of December 31, 2009, based on information available from ANATEL. Vivo, TIM and Telecom Americas Group are each controlled by multinational companies that may have more significant financial and marketing resources, and greater abilities to access capital on a timely basis and on more favorable terms, than our company. Our ability to generate revenues from our mobile services business depends on our ability to increase and retain our customer base. Each additional customer subscribing to our service entails costs, including sales commissions and marketing costs. Recovering these costs depends on our ability to retain such customers. Therefore, high rates of customer churn could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our mobile services business. During 2009, our average customer churn rate in the mobile services segment, representing the number of subscribers whose service was disconnected during each month, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, divided by the number of subscribers at the beginning of such month, was 4.6% per month. We have experienced increased pressure to reduce our rates in response to pricing competition. This pricing competition often takes the form of special promotional packages, which may include, among other things, mobile handset subsidies, traffic usage promotions and incentives for calls made within a mobile services provider’s own network. Competing with the service plans and promotions offered by our competitors may cause an increase in our marketing expenses and customer-acquisition costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our inability to compete effectively with these packages could result in our loss of market share and adversely affect our operating revenue and profitability. For a detailed description of our competition in the mobile services market, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Competition—Mobile Services.” Our long-distance services face significant competition, which may adversely affect our revenues. In Brazil, unlike in the United States, a caller chooses its preferred long-distance carrier for each long-distance call, whether originated from a fixed-line telephone or a mobile handset, by dialing such carrier’s long-distance carrier selection code (Código de Seleção de Prestadora). The long-distance services market in Brazil is highly competitive. Our principal competitors for long-distance services originating on fixed-line telephones in Region II are Embratel and GVT. We compete for long-distance services originating on mobile telephones in Region II with Embratel, Telecomunicações de São Paulo S.A., or Telesp, and TIM. Generally, callers placing long-distance calls in Brazil from their fixed-line telephones tend to select the long-distance carrier affiliated with the provider of their fixed-line service. Similarly, callers placing long-distance calls in Brazil from their mobile handsets tend to select the long-distance carrier affiliated with the provider of their mobile or fixed-line service. Embratel, as the incumbent long-distance service provider, is the most aggressive of these competitors, offering discounts and other promotions from time to time in an effort to increase its market share in the long-distance market. Competition in the long-distance market may require us to increase our marketing expenses or provide services at lower rates than those we currently expect to charge for such services. If competition in the domestic long-distance market increases, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and margins. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Competition—Long-Distance Services.” Data transmission services are not subject to significant regulatory restrictions and, as a result, we face an increasing amount of competition in this business. Competition in data transmission services is not subject to significant regulatory restrictions and, therefore, the market is open to a large number of competitors. Some competitors, such as cable operators, offer telephone and broadband services, which do not require them to use our fixed-line network, thereby allowing them to reach our customers without paying interconnection fees to our company. Additionally, although these auctions have not yet 7 Table of Contents been scheduled, we anticipate that ANATEL will auction radio frequency licenses that will be used to establish Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, or WiMax, networks in the second half of 2010 or in 2011. The implementation of WiMax networks may allow other internet service providers, or ISPs. to deploy wireless Internet Protocol, or IP, networks over a much greater area, for a much lower cost, than previously possible. This reduced deployment cost may give our competitors, or new entrants into the data transmission market, the ability to provide Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP, and other data services over WiMax networks at lower rates than we are able to offer. Increasing competition in data transmission services may lead to rate reductions in this segment, adversely affecting the operating revenue we generate from this business. Additionally, increased competition for data transmission customers may require us to increase our marketing expenses and our capital expenditures and may lead to the loss of broadband customers, in each case leading to a decrease in our profitability. For a detailed description of our competition in the data transmission services market, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Competition—Data Transmission Services.” The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent changes in technology. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to implement new technology, and it is difficult to predict how new technology will affect our business. Companies in the telecommunications industry must adapt to rapid and significant technological changes that are usually difficult to anticipate. The mobile telecommunications industry in particular has experienced rapid and significant technological development and frequent improvements in capacity, quality and data-transmission speed. Technological changes may render our equipment, services and technology obsolete or inefficient, which may adversely affect our competitiveness or require us to increase our capital expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position. For example, we made significant investments in 2008 and 2009 in connection with the implementation of our Universal Mobile Telecommunications System services, which we refer to as 3G services, in Region II. While we have been upgrading our fixed-line networks with technologically advanced fiber optic cable with a microwave overlay for use in our long-distance services, it is possible that alternative technologies may be developed that are more advanced than those we currently provide. If ANATEL auctions radio frequency spectrum for use in the development of WiMax networks, we expect that we may be required to participate in these auctions and deploy a WiMax network to remain competitive in the broadband services market. Even if we adopt new technologies in a timely manner as they are developed, the cost of such technology may exceed the benefit to us, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our level of competitiveness. Our industry is highly regulated. Changes in laws and regulations may adversely impact our business. Our industry is highly regulated by ANATEL. ANATEL regulates, among other things, rates, quality of service and universal service goals, as well as competition among telecommunications service providers. Changes in laws and regulations, grants of new concessions, authorizations or licenses or the imposition of additional universal service obligations, among other factors, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In October 2008, ANATEL published items that are on its regulatory agenda in the short-term (up to two years), medium-term (up to five years) and long-term (up to 10 years). In the short-term, ANATEL is expected to address the following items, among others: (1) review of and amendments to concession agreements to include additional obligations to expand existing networks; (2) assessment of the adequacy of fixed-line regulations in light of the convergence of telecommunications services; (3) regulation of service providers with significant market power; and (4) establishment of additional obligations to extend mobile networks, including broadband services, to rural areas. In furtherance of ANATEL’s short-term regulatory agenda: • ANATEL has proposed amendments to our concession agreements which are expected to become effective on January 1, 2011 as described in “Item 4. Information on the Company—Concessions, Authorizations and Licenses.” 8 Table of Contents • ANATEL has proposed new regulations under which it would grant licenses to use radio spectrum in the 450 Mhz band to telecommunications providers that agree to provide mobile services in rural areas. The public consultation period for these regulations has expired and we expect that ANATEL will adopt final regulations by the end of 2010. • ANATEL is developing criteria for the evaluation of telecommunications providers to determine which providers have significant market power. We expect that these criteria will be submitted for public comment by the end of 2010. • We expect that ANATEL will submit additional proposed regulations for public comment by the end of 2010 to address the remaining items on its announced short-term agenda. We cannot predict when regulations regarding these matters will be proposed or adopted or whether these regulations will be adopted as proposed. Some of these regulations, if adopted, may have adverse effects on our revenues, costs and expenses, results of operations or financial position. In May 2010, Executive Decree No. 7,175/10 was adopted which created the National Broadband Plan. The goal of the National Broadband Plan is to make broadband access available at low cost, regardless of technology, throughout Brazil. The Brazilian government is studying options to achieve this goal, including mandating Telecomunicações Brasileiras S.A., or Telebrás, to manage all of the broadband infrastructure owned by the Brazilian government and to build or otherwise acquire the use of the infrastructure necessary to implement this plan. Executive Decree No. 7,175/10 also instructed ANATEL to adopt new regulations relating to unbundling of telecommunications services and the pricing of backhaul services. As a result of the adoption of the National Broadband Plan, we expect that ANATEL will propose additional modifications to the General Plan on Universal Service (Plano Geral de Metas de Universalização) as part of the pending modifications of these concession agreements. We cannot predict when regulations regarding these matters will be proposed or adopted or whether these regulations will be adopted as proposed. Some of these regulations, if adopted, may have adverse effects on our revenues, costs and expenses, results of operations or financial position. We cannot predict whether ANATEL, the Brazilian Ministry of Communications (Ministério das Comunicações) or the Brazilian government will adopt other telecommunications sector policies in the future or the consequences of such policies on our business and the business of our competitors. Proposed laws seeking the termination of monthly subscription fees for local fixed-line services may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Certain legislative bills seeking to terminate monthly subscription fees charged by local fixed-line service providers have been submitted to the Brazilian Congress and remain pending. In March 2008, a special committee was formed in the Brazilian House of Representatives to discuss the various proposed bills on this issue. As of the date of this annual report, no action had been taken by the committee. In 2009, monthly subscription fees represented 21.9% of our gross operating revenue. The enactment of legislation terminating the monthly subscription fees would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our local fixed-line and domestic long-distance concession agreements are subject to periodic modifications by ANATEL and expire on December 31, 2025. Our bids for new concessions upon the expiration of our existing concessions may not be successful. We provide fixed-line telecommunications services in Region II pursuant to concession agreements with the Brazilian government. Our concession agreements expire on December 31, 2025, and may be amended by the parties every five years prior to the expiration date. ANATEL will engage in public consultation in connection with each five-year amendment to discuss its proposals for new conditions and quality and universal service targets. The first amendment to each of the concession agreements is expected to become effective on January 1, 2011. In connection with each of these amendments, we are currently discussing modifications to our concession agreements with ANATEL. 9 Table of Contents On March 30, 2009, ANATEL published a public notice of the proposed modifications to these concession agreements. In this public notice, ANATEL proposed an amendment to the General Plan on Universal Service that would require us to: • double the backhaul capacity to the 20 municipalities (municípios), which are analogous to counties in the U.S., affected by the April 2008 amendment to our concession agreements described under “Item 4. Information on the Company—Concessions, Authorizations and Licenses”; • provide high-speed transmission lines (2.5 gigabytes per second (Gbps)) to the 1,400 municipalities in our concession area in which we did provide internet service as of April 2008; and • provide service to a large number of additional areas, including indigenous villages, rural schools, health clinics, military bases, federal and state highway police stations, public aerodromes and environmental conservation organizations, which would require the fixed-line concessionaires to install an aggregate of up to approximately 110,000 additional public telephones (Terminais de Uso Público), mostly in rural areas. In order to mitigate the costs related to the General Plan on Universal Service, ANATEL proposed a reduction in the number of public telephones required per inhabitant from 6.0 per 1,000 inhabitants to 4.5 per 1,000 inhabitants. The public consultation period in connection with the March 30, 2009 public notice ended on June 22, 2009, although the final amendments to our concession agreements have not yet been determined. The final modifications will become effective on January 1, 2011. As a result of the adoption of the National Broadband Plan, we expect that ANATEL will propose additional modifications to the General Plan on Universal Service as part of the pending modifications of these concession agreements. Our obligations under the concession agreements may be subject to revision in connection with each amendment. We cannot assure you that any of these amendments will not impose requirements on our company that will require us to undertake significant capital expenditures or will not modify the rate-setting procedures applicable to us in a manner that will significantly reduce the gross operating revenue that we generate from our fixed-line businesses. If the amendments to our concession agreements have these effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our concession agreements will expire on December 31, 2025. We expect the Brazilian government to offer new concessions in competitive auctions prior to the expiration of our existing concession agreements. We may participate in such auctions, but our existing fixed-line and domestic long-distance concession agreements will not entitle us to preferential treatment in these auctions. If we do not secure concessions for our existing service areas in any future auctions, or if such concessions are on less favorable terms than our current concessions, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our local fixed-line and domestic long-distance concession agreements, as well as our authorizations to provide personal mobile services, contain certain obligations, and our failure to comply with these obligations may result in various fines and penalties imposed on us by ANATEL. Our local fixed-line and domestic long-distance concession agreements contain terms reflecting the General Plan on Universal Service, the General Plan on Quality Goals (Plano Geral de Metas de Qualidade) and other regulations adopted by ANATEL and implemented in 2006, the terms of which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our local fixed-line concession agreements also require us to meet certain network expansion, quality of service and modernization obligations in each of the states in Region II. In the event of noncompliance with ANATEL targets in any one of these states, ANATEL can establish a deadline for achieving the targeted level of such service, impose penalties and, in extreme situations, terminate our concession agreements for noncompliance with its quality and universal service obligations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry—Regulation of Fixed-Line Services.” 10 Table of Contents On an almost weekly basis, we receive inquiries from ANATEL requiring information from us on our compliance with the various service obligations imposed on us by our concession agreements. If we are unable to respond satisfactorily to those inquiries or comply with our service obligations under our concession agreements, ANATEL may commence administrative proceedings in connection with such noncompliance. We have received numerous notices of the commencement of administrative proceedings from ANATEL, mostly due to our inability to achieve certain targets established in the General Plan on Quality Goals and the General Plan on Universal Service, among others. We have recorded provisions in the amount of R$201 million as of December 31, 2009 in connection with fines sought to be imposed by ANATEL. Additional fines from ANATEL or fines in excess of the provisioned amount could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry” and “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Civil Claims—Administrative Proceedings.” In addition, our authorizations to provide personal mobile services contain certain obligations requiring us to meet network scope and quality of service targets. If we fail to meet these obligations, we may be fined by ANATEL until we are in full compliance with our obligations and, in extreme circumstances, our authorizations could be revoked by ANATEL. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry—Regulation of Mobile Services—Obligations of Personal Mobile Services Providers.” We may be unable to implement our plans to expand and enhance our existing mobile networks in a timely manner or without unanticipated costs, which could hinder or prevent the successful implementation of our business plan and result in revenues and net income being less than expected. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives relating to our mobile services depends in large part on the successful, timely and cost-effective implementation of our plans to expand and enhance our mobile networks. Factors that could affect this implementation include: • our ability to generate cash flow or to obtain future financing necessary the implementation of our projects; • delays in the delivery of telecommunications equipment by our vendors; • the failure of the telecommunications equipment supplied by our vendors to comply with the expected capabilities; and • delays resulting from the failure of third-party suppliers or contractors to meet their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner. Although we believe that our cost estimates and implementation schedule are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the actual costs or time required to complete the implementation of these projects will not substantially exceed our current estimates. Any significant cost overrun or delay could hinder or prevent the successful implementation of our business plan and result in revenues and net income being less than expected. We depend on key suppliers and vendors to provide equipment that we need to operate our business. If these suppliers or vendors fail to provide equipment or service to us on a timely basis, we could experience disruptions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We depend upon various key suppliers and vendors, including Alcatel-Lucent, Nokia and Huawei, to provide us with network equipment, which we need in order to expand and operate our business. These suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices or limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. If these suppliers or vendors fail to provide equipment or service to us on a timely basis, we could experience disruptions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, and we might be unable to satisfy the requirements contained in our concession and authorization agreements. 11 Table of Contents Our controlling shareholder, TmarPart, has control over us and our controlled companies and TmarPart’s interests may not be aligned with your interests. We are controlled indirectly by Telemar Participações S.A., or TmarPart, which, as of June 28, 2010 indirectly controlled 79.6% of our voting shares. TmarPart’s shareholders are parties to two shareholders’ agreements governing their equity interests in TmarPart. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders—TmarPart Shareholders’ Agreements.” Our controlling shareholder and its controlling shareholders are entitled to appoint a majority of the members of our board of directors, and they have the power to determine the decisions to be taken at our shareholders’ meetings on matters of our management that require the prior authorization of our shareholders, including in respect of the authorization of related party transactions, corporate restructurings and the date of payment of dividends and other capital distributions. The decisions of our controlling shareholder and its controlling shareholders on these matters may be contrary to the expectations or preferences of holders of our securities, including holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. We have a substantial amount of existing debt, which could restrict our financing and operating flexibility and have other adverse consequences. At December 31, 2009, we had total consolidated indebtedness, excluding swap adjustments, of R$4,443 million and a ratio of debt to equity of 0.40:1. We are subject to certain financial covenants that limit our ability to incur additional debt. Our existing level of indebtedness and the requirements and limitations imposed by our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In particular, the terms of some of these debt instruments restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to: • incur additional debt; • grant liens; • pledge assets; • sell or dispose of assets; and • make certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations. If we are unable to incur additional debt, we may be unable to invest in our business and make necessary or advisable capital expenditures, which could reduce future operating revenue and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, cash required to serve our existing indebtedness reduces the amount available to us to make capital expenditures. If our growth in net operating revenue slows or declines in a significant manner, for any reason, we may not be able to continue servicing our debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to renegotiate or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. For more information regarding our debt instruments and our indebtedness at December 31, 2009, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We are subject to numerous legal and administrative proceedings, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous legal and administrative proceedings. It is difficult to quantify the potential impact of these legal and administrative proceedings. We classify our risk of loss from legal and administrative proceedings as “probable,” “possible” or “remote.” We make provisions for probable losses but do not make provisions for possible and remote losses. At December 31, 2009, we had provisioned R$1,873 million for probable losses relating to various tax, labor and civil legal and administrative proceedings against us. 12 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, we had claims against us of approximately R$1,778 million in tax proceedings, R$1,129 in labor proceedings and R$1,257 million in civil proceedings with a risk of loss classified as “possible” and for which we had made no provisions. See note 25 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. If we are subject to unfavorable decisions in any legal or administrative proceedings and the losses in those proceedings significantly exceed the amount for which we have provisioned or involve proceedings for which we have made no provision, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. For a more detailed description of these proceedings, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We are subject to potential liabilities relating to our third-party service providers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to potential liabilities relating to our third-party service providers. Such potential liabilities may involve claims by employees of third-party service providers directly against us as if we were the direct employer of such employees, as well as claims against us for secondary liability for, among other things, occupational hazards, wage parity or overtime pay, in the event that such third-party service providers fail to meet their obligations to their employees. We have not recorded any provisions for such claims, and significant judgments against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to delinquencies of our accounts receivables. If we are unable to limit payment delinquencies by our customers, or if delinquent payments by our customers increase, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business significantly depends on our customers’ ability to pay their bills and comply with their obligations to us. In 2009, we recorded provisions for doubtful accounts in the amount of R$550, primarily due to subscribers’ delinquencies. As a percentage of our gross operating revenue, our provision for doubtful accounts was 3.1% at December 31, 2009. ANATEL regulations prevent us from implementing certain policies that could have the effect of reducing delinquency, such as service restrictions or limitations on the types of services provided based on a subscriber’s credit record. If we are unable to successfully implement policies to limit subscriber delinquencies or otherwise select our customers based on their credit records, persistent subscriber delinquencies and bad debt will continue to adversely affect our operating and financial results. In addition, if the Brazilian economy declines due to, among other factors, a reduction in the level of economic activity, depreciation of the real, an increase in inflation or an increase in domestic interest rates, a greater portion of our customers may not be able to pay their bills on a timely basis, which would increase our provision for doubtful accounts and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain, upgrade and operate efficiently our accounting, billing, customer service, information technology and management information systems and to rely on the systems of other carriers under co-billing agreements. Sophisticated information and processing systems are vital to our growth and our ability to monitor costs, render monthly invoices for services, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate successfully and upgrade our accounting, information and processing systems or that these systems will continue to perform as expected. We have entered into co-billing agreements with each long-distance telecommunications service provider that is interconnected to our networks to include in our invoices the long-distance services rendered by these providers, and they have agreed to include charges owed to us in their invoices. Any failure in our accounting, information and processing systems, or any problems with the execution of invoicing and collection services by other carriers with whom we have co-billing agreements, could impair our ability to collect payments from customers and respond satisfactorily to customer needs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Improper use of our network could adversely affect our costs and results of operations. We incur costs associated with the unauthorized and fraudulent use of our networks, including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraud also affects interconnection costs and payments to other carriers for non-billable fraudulent roaming. Improper use of our network could also increase our selling expenses if we need to increase our provision for doubtful accounts to reflect amounts we do not believe we can collect for improperly made calls. Any increase in the improper use of our network in the future could materially adversely affect our costs and results of operations. Our operations are dependent upon our networks. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to suffer losses. Damage to our networks and backup mechanisms may result in service delays or interruptions and limit our ability to provide customers with reliable service over our networks. Some of the risks to our networks and infrastructure include (1) physical damage to access lines; (2) power surges or outages; (3) software defects; (4) disruptions beyond our control; (5) breaches of security; and (6) natural disasters. The occurrence of any such event could cause interruptions in service or reduce capacity for customers, either of which could reduce our gross operating revenues or cause us to incur additional expenses. In addition, the occurrence of any such event may subject us to penalties and other sanctions imposed by ANATEL and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The mobile telecommunications industry and participants in this industry, including us, may be harmed by reports suggesting that radio frequency emissions cause health problems and interfere with medical devices. Media and other entities frequently suggest that the electromagnetic emissions from mobile handsets and base stations may cause health problems. If consumers harbor health-related concerns, they may be discouraged from using mobile handsets. These concerns could have an adverse effect on the mobile telecommunications industry and, possibly, expose mobile services providers to litigation. We cannot assure you that further medical research and studies will refute a link between the electromagnetic emissions of mobile handsets and base stations, including on frequency ranges we use to provide mobile services, and these health concerns. Government authorities could increase regulation on electromagnetic emissions of mobile handsets and base stations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The expansion of our network may be affected by these perceived risks if we experience problems in finding new sites, which in turn may delay the expansion and may affect the quality of our services. In July 2002, ANATEL enacted regulations that limit emission and exposure for fields with frequencies between 9 kHz and 300 GHz. Although these regulations did not have a material impact on our business, new laws or regulations regarding electromagnetic emissions and exposure may be adopted that could have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. This involvement, as well as Brazilian political and economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Substantially all of our operations and customers are located in Brazil, except for minor services provided outside of Brazil. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are substantially dependent on Brazil’s economy. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and implement macroeconomic policies have often involved increases in interest rates, wage and price controls, currency devaluations, blocking access to bank accounts, imposing capital controls and limits on imports, among other things. We do not have any control over, and are unable to predict, which measures or policies the Brazilian government may adopt in the future. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in policies or regulations, or by other factors such as: • political instability; 14 Table of Contents • devaluations and other currency fluctuations; • inflation; • price instability; • interest rates; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • energy shortages; • exchange controls; • changes to the regulatory framework governing our industry; • monetary policy; • tax policy; and • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether possible changes in policies or rules affecting these or other factors may contribute to economic uncertainties in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets of and securities issued abroad by Brazilian issuers. The President of Brazil has considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions that relate to the Brazilian economy and, consequently, affect the operating and financial results of businesses such as our company. The term of Brazil’s current President, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, expires in January 2011, and under Brazilian law he is not permitted to run for another four-year term in the October 2010 elections. Uncertainty regarding the election of President Lula’s successor and speculation about the policies that may be implemented by the Brazilian federal or state governments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global economic downturn may adversely affect economic growth in Brazil or limit our access to the financial markets and, therefore, negatively impact our business and financial condition. The global economic downturn and related instability in the international financial system have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on economic growth in Brazil. The ongoing economic downturn has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets, including in Brazil, could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession or depression. A prolonged slowdown in economic activity in Brazil could reduce demand for some of our services, particularly broadband services, in the event that the rate of computer sales in Brazil declines, which would adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of the global economic downturn, our ability to access the capital markets or the commercial bank lending markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The global economic downturn could have an impact on the lenders under our existing credit facilities, on our customers or on the ability of our suppliers to meet scheduled deliveries, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. If the global economic downturn deepens further, it could have an adverse effect on the demand for our services and our ability to fund our planned growth. 15 Table of Contents Depreciation of the real may lead to substantial losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies. During the four decades prior to 1999, the Central Bank periodically devalued the Brazilian currency. Throughout this period, the Brazilian government implemented various economic plans and used various exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations (such as daily and monthly adjustments), exchange controls, dual exchange rate markets and a floating exchange rate system. Since 1999, exchange rates have been set by the market. The exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar has varied significantly in recent years. For example, the real/U.S. dollar exchange rate increased from R$1.955 per U.S. dollar on December 31, 2000 to R$3.533 on December 31, 2002. The real appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 11.8% in 2005, 8.7% in 2006 and 17.1% in 2007. In 2008, primarily as a result of the international financial crisis, the real depreciated by 31.9% against the U.S. dollar and prompted foreign investors to remove billions of reais from the Brazilian Securities, Commodities and Futures Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA S.A. - Bolsa de Valores Mercadorias e Futuros), which we refer to as the BM&FBOVESPA. During 2009, the real appreciated by 25.5% against the U.S. dollar. A significant amount of our financial liabilities are denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, primarily U.S. dollars and Japanese Yen. As of December 31, 2009, R$532 million, or 12.0% of our financial indebtedness, was denominated in a foreign currency, excluding swap adjustments. When the real depreciates against foreign currencies, we incur losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, such as our U.S. dollar-denominated long-term debt and foreign currency loans, and we incur gains on our monetary assets denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, as the liabilities and assets are translated into reais. If significant depreciation of the real were to occur when the value of such liabilities significantly exceeds the value of such assets, including any financial instruments entered into for hedging purposes, we could incur significant losses, even if the value of those assets and liabilities has not changed in their original currency. In addition, a significant depreciation in the real could adversely affect our ability to meet certain of our payment obligations. A failure to meet certain of our payment obligations could trigger a default under certain financial covenants in our debt instruments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, we currently have currency swaps in place for a portion of our foreign currency debt. If the cost of currency swap instruments increases substantially, we may be unable to maintain our hedge policy, resulting in an increased foreign currency exposure which could in turn lead to substantial foreign exchange losses. In addition, a portion of our capital expenditures requires us to acquire assets at prices denominated in or linked to foreign currencies, some of which are financed by liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, principally the U.S. dollar. We generally do not hedge against these risks. To the extent that the value of the real decreases relative to the U.S. dollar, it becomes more costly for us to purchase these assets, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Depreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar could create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil by increasing the price of imported products and requiring recessionary government policies, including tighter monetary policy. On the other hand, appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account and balance of payments, as well as to a dampening of export-driven growth. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our margins and our ability to access foreign financial markets may be reduced. Government measures to curb inflation may have adverse effects on the Brazilian economy, the Brazilian securities market and our business and results of operations. Brazil has, in the past, experienced extremely high rates of inflation, with annual rates of inflation reaching as high as 2,708% in 1993 and 1,093% in 1994. Inflation and some of the Brazilian government’s measures taken in an attempt to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Since the introduction of the real in 1994, Brazil’s inflation rate has been substantially lower than in previous periods. However, actions taken in an effort to control inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future governmental actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities market. More recently, Brazil’s rates of inflation, as measured by the General Market Price Index — Internal Availability (Índice Geral de Preços — Disponibilidade Interna), or IGP-DI, published by Fundação Getúlio Vargas, or FGV, were 1.2% in 2005, 3.8% in 2006, 7.9% in 2007, 9.1% in 2008 and (1.4)% in 2009. 16 Table of Contents According to the Broad Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Ampliado), or IPCA, published by the Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística), or IBGE, the Brazilian consumer price inflation rates were 5.7% in 2005, 3.1% in 2006, 4.5% in 2007, 9.1% in 2008 and 4.3% in 2009. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our costs may increase and our operating and net margins may decrease. Although ANATEL regulations provide for annual price increases for most of our services, such increases are linked to inflation indices, discounted by increases in our productivity. During periods of rapid increases in inflation, the price increases for our services may not be sufficient to cover our additional costs and we may be adversely affected by the lag in time between the incurrence of increased costs and the receipt of revenues resulting from the annual price increases. Inflationary pressures may also curtail our ability to access foreign financial markets and may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that may adversely affect the overall performance of the Brazilian economy. Fluctuations in interest rates could increase the cost of servicing our debt and negatively affect our overall financial performance. Our financial expenses are affected by changes in the interest rates that apply to our floating rate debt. At December 31, 2009, we had, among other debt obligations, R$2,675 million of loans and financing that were subject to the Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo, or TJLP, a long-term interest rate, R$1,095 million of local commercial paper and debentures that were subject to the Interbank Certificate of Deposit (Certificado Depositário Interbancário), or CDI, rate, an interbank rate, and R$123 million of loans and financing that were subject to Japanese Yen LIBOR. The TJLP includes an inflation factor and is determined quarterly by the Central Bank. In particular, the TJLP and the CDI rate have fluctuated significantly in the past in response to the expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, inflation, Brazilian government policies and other factors. For example, in 2008, the CDI rate increased from 11.18% per annum at December 31, 2007 to 12.38% per annum at December 31, 2008. A significant increase in any of these interest rates, particularly the CDI rate, could adversely affect our financial expenses and negatively affect our overall financial performance. Changes in Brazilian GAAP in connection with the process of convergence to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) may adversely impact our results of operations. The enactment of Law No. 11,638/07 and Law No. 11,941/09, which amended the Brazilian Corporation Law and changed certain accounting policies under Brazilian GAAP, created conditions for the alignment between Brazilian GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. For more information about the principal changes introduced by Law No. 11,638/07 and Law No. 11,941/09 as they relate to our financial statements, see note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements, which are included in this annual report. The changes in Brazilian GAAP could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations, including effects on our net income and the measures that our creditors use to monitor our performance under our debt instruments. Any reduction in our net income, as measured under the revision introduced to Brazilian GAAP under these laws, would have an adverse effect on our net income, and potentially, our ability to distribute dividends on our preferred and common shares. In addition, an adverse effect under the ratios contained in the covenants in our debt instruments as a result of the change in the way that our operating results are measured under the revision introduced to Brazilian GAAP could adversely affect our ability to comply with these covenants, to obtain financing to fund our growth plans or to refinance our indebtedness on terms satisfactory to us. The market value of securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced by the perception of risk in Brazil and other emerging market countries, which may have a negative effect on the trading price of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs and may restrict our access to international capital markets. Economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially those in Latin America, may influence the market for securities issued by Brazilian companies. Investors’ reactions to developments in these 17 Table of Contents other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Adverse economic conditions in other emerging market countries have at times resulted in significant outflows of funds from Brazil. In 2008, certain Brazilian and Mexican companies announced significant losses in connection with currency derivatives as a result of the depreciation of the Mexican peso and the real against the U.S. dollar, respectively. As a result, a number of these companies have suffered financial distress and have sought protection under various bankruptcy regimes. In addition, in October 2008, the Argentine government nationalized the Argentine private pension funds. Crises in other emerging countries or the economic policies of other countries, in particular the United States, may adversely affect investors’ demand for securities issued by Brazilian companies, including our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. Any of these factors could adversely affect the market price of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs and impede our ability to access the international capital markets and finance our operations in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. Restrictions on the movement of capital out of Brazil may impair our ability to service certain debt obligations. Brazilian law provides that whenever there exists, or there is a serious risk of, a material imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments, the Brazilian government may impose restrictions for a limited period of time on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil as well as on the conversion of the real into foreign currencies. The Brazilian government imposed such a restriction on remittances for approximately six months in 1989 and early 1990. The Brazilian government may in the future restrict companies from paying amounts denominated in foreign currency or require that any such payment be made in reais. Many factors could affect the likelihood of the Brazilian government imposing such exchange control restrictions, including the extent of Brazil’s foreign currency reserves, the availability of sufficient foreign exchange on the date a payment is due, the size of Brazil’s debt service burden relative to the economy as a whole, and political constraints to which Brazil may be subject. There can be no certainty that the Brazilian government will not take such measures in the future. A more restrictive policy could increase the cost of servicing, and thereby reduce our ability to pay, our foreign currency-denominated debt obligations and other liabilities. Our foreign-currency denominated debt represented 12.0% of our indebtedness, excluding swap adjustments, on a consolidated basis at December 31, 2009. If we fail to make payments under any of these obligations, we will be in default under those obligations, which could reduce our liquidity as well as the market price of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. In addition, a more restrictive policy could hinder or prevent the Brazilian custodian of the common shares and preferred shares underlying our ADSs or holders who have exchanged our ADSs for the underlying common shares or preferred shares from converting dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of such shares into U.S. dollars and remitting such U.S. dollars abroad. In such an event, the Brazilian custodian for our common shares and preferred shares will hold the reais that it cannot convert for the account of holders of our ADSs who have not been paid. Neither the custodian nor The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary of our ADS programs, or the depositary, will be required to invest the reais or be liable for any interest. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares, Preferred Shares and ADSs Holders of our common shares, preferred shares or ADSs may not receive any dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity. According to our bylaws, we must generally pay our shareholders at least 25% of our annual net profit as dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity, as calculated and adjusted under Brazilian GAAP. This adjusted net profit may be capitalized, used to absorb losses or otherwise retained as allowed under Brazilian GAAP and may not be available to be paid as dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity. Holders of our common shares or Common ADSs, may not receive any dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity in any given year due to the dividend preference of our preferred shares. Additionally, the Brazilian Corporation Law allows a publicly traded company like ours to suspend the mandatory distribution of dividends in any particular year if our board of directors informs our shareholders that such distributions would be inadvisable in view of our financial condition or cash availability. Holders of our preferred shares or Preferred ADSs may not receive any dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity in any given year if our board of directors makes such a determination or if our operations fail to generate net income. 18 Table of Contents Our preferred shares and Preferred ADSs have limited voting rights and are not entitled to vote to approve corporate transactions, including mergers or consolidations of our company with other companies, or the declaration of dividends. Under the Brazilian Corporation Law and our bylaws, holders of our preferred shares and, consequently, our Preferred ADSs, are not entitled to vote at meetings of our shareholders, except in very limited circumstances. These limited circumstances directly relate to key rights of the holders of preferred shares, such as modifying basic terms of our preferred shares or creating a new class of preferred shares with superior rights. Holders of preferred shares without voting rights are entitled to elect one member and his or her respective alternate to our board of directors and our fiscal council. Holders of our preferred shares and Preferred ADSs are not entitled to vote to approve corporate transactions, including mergers or consolidations of our company with other companies, or the declaration of dividends. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Description of Our Company’s Bylaws—Voting Rights.” Holders of our ADSs may find it difficult to exercise their voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Under Brazilian law, only shareholders registered as such in our corporate books may attend our shareholders’ meetings. All common shares and preferred shares underlying our ADSs are registered in the name of the depositary. ADS holders may exercise the voting rights with respect to our common shares and the limited voting rights with respect to our preferred shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreements relating to ADSs. There are practical limitations upon the ability of the ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional steps involved in communicating with ADS holders. For example, we are required to publish a notice of our shareholders’ meetings in certain newspapers in Brazil. To the extent that holders of our common shares or preferred shares are entitled to vote at a shareholders’ meeting, they will be able to exercise their voting rights by attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of the ADSs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the depositary following our notice to the depositary requesting the depositary to inform ADS holders of the shareholders’ meeting. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must instruct the depositary on a timely basis. This noticed voting process will take longer for ADS holders than for holders of our common shares or preferred shares. If the depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADSs, the depositary will assume that the holders of those ADSs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADSs, except in limited circumstances. In the circumstances in which holders of our ADSs have voting rights, they may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote our common shares or preferred shares underlying their ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of our ADSs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have no recourse if the common shares or preferred shares underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. Holders of our common shares, preferred shares or ADSs in the United States may not be entitled to the same preemptive rights as Brazilian shareholders have, pursuant to Brazilian legislation, in the subscription of shares resulting from capital increases made by us. Under Brazilian law, if we issue new shares in exchange for cash or assets as part of a capital increase, subject to certain exceptions, we must grant our shareholders preemptive rights at the time of the subscription of shares, corresponding to their respective interest in our share capital, allowing them to maintain their existing shareholding percentage. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of our common shares, preferred shares or ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless (1) we file a registration statement for an offering of shares resulting from the capital increase with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or (2) the offering of shares resulting from the capital increase qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement for an offering of shares with the SEC and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file such a registration statement. We cannot assure the holders of our common shares, preferred shares or ADSs in the United States that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow them to participate in any of our capital increases. As a result, the equity interest of such holders in our company may be diluted. 19 Table of Contents If holders of our ADSs exchange them for common shares or preferred shares, they may risk temporarily losing, or being limited in, the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and certain Brazilian tax advantages. The Brazilian custodian for the common shares and preferred shares underlying our ADSs must obtain an electronic registration number with the Central Bank to allow the depositary to remit U.S. dollars abroad. ADS holders benefit from the electronic certificate of foreign capital registration from the Central Bank obtained by the custodian for the depositary, which permits it to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the common shares or preferred shares into U.S. dollars and remit the proceeds of such conversion abroad. If holders of our ADSs decide to exchange them for the underlying common shares or preferred shares, they will only be entitled to rely on the custodian’s certificate of registration with the Central Bank for five business days after the date of the exchange. Thereafter, they will be unable to remit U.S. dollars abroad unless they obtain a new electronic certificate of foreign capital registration in connection with the common shares or preferred shares, which may result in expenses and may cause delays in receiving distributions. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls.” Also, if holders of our ADSs that exchange those ADSs for our common shares or preferred shares do not qualify under the foreign investment regulations, they will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment of dividends and distribution on, and the proceeds from any sale of, our common shares or preferred shares. See “Item 10. Additional information—Exchange Controls” and “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations.” Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests because, as a Brazilian company, we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations and our shareholders may have fewer and less well-defined rights. Holders of our ADSs are not direct shareholders of our company and are unable to enforce the rights of shareholders under our bylaws and the Brazilian Corporation Law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and the Brazilian Corporation Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the State of Delaware or New York, or elsewhere outside Brazil. Even if a holder of our ADSs surrenders its ADSs and becomes a direct shareholder, its rights as a holder of our common shares or preferred shares under the Brazilian Corporation Law to protect its interests relative to actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well-defined than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets or the markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing or for preserving shareholder interests may be less well-defined and enforced in Brazil than in the United States and certain other countries, which may put holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. Corporate disclosures also may be less complete or informative than those of a public company in the United States or in certain other countries. We are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. We are a foreign private issuer, as defined by the SEC for purposes of the Exchange Act. As a result, for so long as we remain a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from, and you will not be provided with the benefits of, some of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE. We are permitted to follow practice in Brazil in lieu of the provisions of the NYSE’s corporate governance rules, except that: • we are required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act; • we are required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic companies under NYSE listing standards; 20 Table of Contents • our chief executive officer is obligated to promptly notify the NYSE in writing after any of our executive officers becomes aware of any non-compliance with any applicable provisions of the NYSE corporate governance rules; and • we must submit an executed written affirmation annually to the NYSE. In addition, we must submit an interim written affirmation as and when required by the interim written affirmation form specified by the NYSE. The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. Although Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act generally requires that a listed company have an audit committee of its board of directors composed solely of independent directors, as a foreign private issuer, we are relying on a general exemption from this requirement that is available to us as a result of the features of Brazilian law applicable to our fiscal council. In addition, we are not required to, among other things: • have a majority of the board be independent; • have a compensation committee or a nominating or corporate governance committee of our board of directors; • have regularly scheduled executive sessions with only non-management directors; or • have at least one executive session of solely independent directors each year. We intend to rely on some or all of these exemptions. As a result, you will not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Holders of the ADSs may face difficulties in serving process on or enforcing judgments against us and other persons. We are organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of the members of our board of directors, our executive officers and our independent registered public accountants reside or are based in Brazil. The vast majority of our assets and those of these other persons are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process upon us or these other persons within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or these other persons judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. In addition, because substantially all of our assets and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors or officers may not be collectible within the United States. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain conditions are met, holders may face greater difficulties in protecting their interests in the case of actions by us or our board of directors or executive officers than would shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to the disposition of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. According to Law No. 10,833, enacted on December 29, 2003, if a nonresident of Brazil disposes of assets located in Brazil, the transaction will be subject to taxation in Brazil, even if such disposition occurs outside Brazil or if such disposition is made to another nonresident. Dispositions of our ADSs between nonresidents, however, are currently not subject to taxation in Brazil. Nevertheless, in the event that the concept of “disposition of assets” is interpreted to include the disposition between nonresidents of assets located outside Brazil, this tax law could result in the imposition of withholding taxes in the event of a disposition of our ADSs made between nonresidents of Brazil. Due to the fact that as of the date of this annual report Law No. 10,833/2003 has no judicial guidance as to its application, we are unable to predict whether an interpretation applying such tax laws to dispositions of our ADSs between nonresidents could ultimately prevail in Brazilian courts. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations.” 21 Table of Contents The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The BM&FBOVESPA, which is the principal Brazilian stock exchange, had a market capitalization of R$2,335 billion (US$1,341 billion) at December 31, 2009 and an average daily trading volume of R$4.6 billion (US$2.7 billion) in 2009. In comparison, aggregate market capitalization of the companies (including U.S. and non-U.S. companies) listed on the NYSE was US$18.9 trillion at December 31, 2009 and the NYSE recorded an average daily trading volume of US$46 billion for 2009. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Brazilian securities markets. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 55% of the aggregate market capitalization of the BM&FBOVESPA at December 31, 2009. The ten most widely traded stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 51% of all shares traded on the BM&FBOVESPA in 2009. These market characteristics may substantially limit the ability of holders of our ADSs to sell the preferred shares underlying our ADSs at a price and at a time when they wish to do so and, as a result, could negatively impact the market price of our ADSs themselves. The recent imposition of IOF taxes may indirectly influence the price and volatility of our ADSs, common shares and preferred shares. Brazilian law imposes the Tax on Foreign Exchange Transactions, or the IOF/Exchange Tax, on the conversion of reais into foreign currency and on the conversion of foreign currency into reais. Brazilian law also imposes the Tax on Transactions Involving Bonds and Securities, or the IOF/Bonds Tax, due on transactions involving bonds and securities, including those carried out on a Brazilian stock exchange. In October 2009, the Brazilian government imposed the IOF/Exchange Tax at a rate of 2.0% in connection with inflows of funds related to investments carried out by non-Brazilian investors in the Brazilian financial and capital markets with the objective of slowing the pace of speculative inflows of foreign capital into the Brazilian market and the appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar. In November 2009, the Brazilian government also established that the rate of the IOF/Bonds Tax applicable to the transfer of shares with the specific purpose of enabling the issuance of ADSs would be 1.5% with the objective of correcting an asymmetry created by the imposition of the IOF/Exchange Tax. The imposition of these taxes may discourage foreign investment in shares of Brazilian companies, including our company, due to higher transaction costs, and may negatively impact the price and volatility of our ADSs, common shares and preferred shares on the NYSE and the BM&FBOVESPA. 22 Table of Contents 