Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. Our business, operating results, growth prospects and financial condition are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information in this report and our other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our stock. Each of these risk factors, as well as additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could adversely affect our business, operating results, growth prospects or financial condition, as well as the trading price of our common stock, in which case you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Risks Related to Our Capital Requirements, Finances and Operations We have incurred losses since our inception, we expect our operating expenses to continue to exceed our revenue for the foreseeable future, and we may never generate revenue sufficient to achieve profitability. We are a development-stage company and have not generated sustainable revenue from operations or been profitable since inception, and we may never achieve profitability. We have devoted our resources to acquiring and developing proprietary product candidates, but such product candidates cannot be marketed until the regulatory process is completed and governmental approvals have been obtained. We have accumulated net losses totaling approximately $187.2 million as of December 31, 2012, and we expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses for the next several years as we advance MST-188, our lead product candidate, through clinical studies and other development activities and seek approval from the FDA to commercialize it. Accordingly, there is no current source of revenue from operations, much less profits, to sustain our present activities. Further, no revenue from operations will likely be available until, and unless, we enter into an arrangement that provides for third-party funding of a development program or MST-188 or another product candidate is approved by the FDA or another regulatory agency, and successfully marketed, outcomes which we may not achieve. -26- Table of Contents The success of our business currently is dependent on the success of MST-188 and this product candidate may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We currently have no products for sale and we are focusing our resources almost exclusively on the development of MST-188. Accordingly, the success of our business currently depends on our ability, or that of a future partner, to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for and then successfully commercialize this product candidate and our efforts, or those of a future partner, in this regard may prove unsuccessful. MST-188 requires considerable additional clinical development, including successful completion of EPIC, our ongoing phase 3 clinical study in sickle cell disease, and significant manufacturing activities prior to commencing any commercial manufacturing, all of which require us to expend significant resources and with which we have limited experience. MST-188 may not be successful in EPIC, or in other clinical studies we initiate in sickle cell disease or other indications or, even if successful in clinical studies, may not receive regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all. If MST-188 is approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency, our ability to generate revenue from it will depend in substantial part on the extent to which it is accepted by the medical community and reimbursed by third-party payors, as well as our ability to market and sell the product and ensure that our third-party manufacturers produce it in quantities sufficient to meet commercial demand, if any. We will need to obtain additional funding to pursue our current business strategy and we may not be able to obtain such funding on a timely basis, or on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any capital-raising transaction we are able to complete may result in dilution to our existing stockholders, require us to relinquish significant rights or restrict our operations. We anticipate that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which were approximately $36.5 million as of December 31, 2012, will be sufficient to fund our currently planned level of operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we may determine to grow our organization and/or pursue development activities for MST-188 or other product candidates at levels or on timelines, or we may incur unexpected expenses, that shorten the period through which our current operating funds will sustain us. We may also seek to expand our product pipeline through acquisition of additional product candidates and/or technologies and the cost to acquire and develop such new product candidates and/or technologies may shorten the period through which our current operating funds will sustain us. We do not expect to generate any substantial revenue from operations in the next several years, and we will need to obtain additional capital to support our planned operating activities. For the foreseeable future, we likely will seek to fund our operations through public or private equity and debt financings and/or through collaborations, such as licensing arrangements or partnering transactions, and may execute any such transaction at any time, subject to applicable laws and regulations. Although we were able to raise significant funds in the past through equity financings, the conditions of and our access to capital markets are highly variable and adequate additional financing may not be available to us in the future on acceptable terms, or on a timely basis, or at all. Further, each of these financing alternatives carries risks. Raising capital through the issuance of our common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock, may depress the market price of our stock and may substantially dilute our existing stockholders. If instead we seek to raise capital through strategic transactions, such as licensing arrangements or sales of one or more of our technologies or product candidates, we may be required to relinquish valuable rights and dilute the current and future value of our assets. For example, any licensing arrangement likely would require us to share with our licensee a significant portion of any revenues generated by our licensed technologies. Additionally, our control over the development and/or marketing of any products or product candidates licensed or sold to third parties may be reduced and thus we may not realize the full value of any such products or product candidates. Debt financings could involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens or make investments and may, among other things, preclude us from making distributions to stockholders (either by paying dividends or redeeming stock) and taking other actions beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, investors could impose more one-sided investment terms and conditions on companies that have or are perceived to have limited remaining funds or limited ability to raise additional funds. The lower our cash balance, the more difficult it is likely to be for us to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. -27- Table of Contents For particular development programs, such as development of MST-188 for resuscitation of shock following major trauma, we plan to seek funding from the U.S. government. The process of obtaining government contracts is lengthy and uncertain and highly competitive. In addition, changes in government budgets and agendas may result in decreased availability of drug research and development funding. For example, on March 1, 2013, automatic, across-the-board federal budget cuts, known as sequestration, went into effect, which could significantly reduce funding for drug research and development programs and reduce the likelihood of our receipt of government funding in the future. If we do secure government funding, the contracts for such funding may contain termination and audit provisions that are unfavorable to us and cause us to incur significant additional administrative expense. In addition, the U.S. government may require “march-in” rights that allow it to grant licenses to inventions that arise from development programs it funds if, for example, we do not commercialize the technology within a certain timeframe or the government deems such action necessary to alleviate health or safety needs that are not being reasonably satisfied by us. If the government exercises its march-in rights, we could be obligated to license intellectual property developed by us on terms unfavorable to us and we may not receive compensation from the government for its exercise of such rights, which likely would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and prospects. Notwithstanding any effort on our part to raise additional capital, adequate additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, or on a timely basis, or at all. Even if we incur costs in pursuing, evaluating and negotiating particular capital-raising and/or strategic or partnering transactions, our efforts may not prove successful. We believe global economic conditions, including the continued volatility of U.S. and international equity markets, may adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to pursue our business strategy. The process of developing and seeking regulatory approval of investigational new drug products requires expenditure of substantial resources, and we cannot estimate with reasonable certainty the duration of or costs to complete our development programs. Our capital requirements for the foreseeable future will depend in large part on, and could increase significantly as a result of, our expenditures on our development programs. Future expenditures on our development programs are subject to many uncertainties, and will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the number and scope of development programs we pursue; • the number of clinical and nonclinical studies necessary to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate in a particular indication; • the number of patients who participate in each clinical study; • the number and location of sites included and the rate of site approval in each study; • the rate of patient enrollment and ratio of randomized to evaluable patients in each clinical study; • the duration of patient treatment and follow-up; • the potential for additional safety monitoring or other studies requested by regulatory agencies; • the time and cost to manufacture clinical trial material and commercial product, including process development and scale-up activities, and to conduct stability studies, which can last several years; • the costs, requirements, timing of, and the ability to, secure regulatory approvals; • the timing and terms of any collaborative or other strategic arrangement that we may establish; • the extent to which we increase our workforce and the costs involved in recruiting, training and incentivizing new employees; -28- Table of Contents • the costs related to developing, acquiring and/or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, supply chain management capabilities, and regulatory compliance capabilities, if we obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate and commercialize it without a partner; and • the costs involved in establishing, enforcing or defending patent claims and other proprietary rights. Our ability to raise capital may be limited by applicable laws and regulations. Historically, we have raised capital through the sale of our equity securities. Between June 2009 and November 2011, we completed seven equity financings under “shelf” registration statements on Form S-3. Using a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 to raise additional capital generally takes less time and is less expensive than other means, such as conducting an offering under a Form S-1 registration statement. However, in the future, our ability to raise capital using a shelf registration statement may be limited by, among other things, current SEC rules and regulations. Under current SEC rules and regulations, we must meet certain requirements to use a Form S-3 registration statement to raise capital without restriction as to the amount of the market value of securities sold thereunder. One such requirement is that the market value of our outstanding common stock held by non-affiliates, or public float, be at least $75.0 million as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing the Form S-3. If we do not meet that requirement, then the aggregate market value of securities sold by us or on our behalf under the Form S-3 in any 12-month period is limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. Moreover, even if we meet the public float requirement at the time we file a Form S-3, SEC rules and regulations require that we periodically re-evaluate the value of our public float, and if, at a re-evaluation date, our public float is less than $75.0 million, we would become subject to the one-third of public float limitation described above. If our ability to utilize a Form S-3 registration statement for a primary offering of our securities is limited to one-third of our public float, we may conduct such an offering pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 or under a Form S-1 registration statement, which we have done in the past, and we would expect either of those alternatives to increase the cost of raising additional capital relative to utilizing a Form S-3 registration statement. In addition, under current SEC rules and regulations, our common stock must be listed and registered on a national securities exchange in order to utilize a Form S-3 registration statement (i) for a primary offering, if our public float is not at least $75.0 million as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing the Form S-3, or a re-evaluation date, whichever is later, and (ii) to register the resale of our securities by persons other than us (i.e., a resale offering). While currently our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT equities market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such listing. The NYSE MKT reviews the appropriateness of continued listing of any issuer that falls below the exchange’s continued listing standards. Previously, including during part of 2010, we were not in compliance with certain NYSE MKT continued listing standards and were at risk of having our common stock delisted from the NYSE MKT equities market. For additional information regarding this risk, see the risk factor below titled “If we are unable to maintain compliance with NYSE MKT continued listing standards, our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE MKT equities market, which would likely cause the liquidity and market price of our common stock to decline.” Our ability to timely raise sufficient additional capital also may be limited by the NYSE MKT’s stockholder approval requirements for transactions involving the issuance of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. For instance, the NYSE MKT requires that we obtain stockholder approval of any transaction involving the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value, which (together with sales by our officers, directors and principal stockholders) equals 20% or more of our then outstanding common stock, unless the transaction is considered a “public offering” by the NYSE MKT staff. Based on the number of shares of our outstanding common stock as of March 8, 2013 and the closing price per share of our common stock on such date, which was $0.73, we could not raise more than approximately $6.7 million without obtaining stockholder approval, unless the transaction is deemed a public offering or does not involve the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value. In addition, certain prior sales by us may be aggregated with any offering we may propose in the future, further limiting the amount we could raise in any future offering that is not considered a public offering by the NYSE MKT staff and involves the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value. The NYSE MKT also requires that we obtain stockholder approval if the issuance or potential issuance of additional shares will be considered by the NYSE MKT staff to result in a change of control of our company. -29- Table of Contents Obtaining stockholder approval is a costly and time-consuming process. If we are required to obtain stockholder approval for a potential transaction, we would expect to spend substantial additional money and resources. In addition, seeking stockholder approval would delay our receipt of otherwise available capital, which may materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our current business strategy, and there is no guarantee our stockholders ultimately would approve a proposed transaction. A public offering under the NYSE MKT rules typically involves broadly announcing the proposed transaction, which often times has the effect of depressing the issuer’s stock price. Accordingly, the price at which we could sell our securities in a public offering may be less, and the dilution existing stockholders experience may in turn be greater, than if we were able to raise capital through other means. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital as needed, we may be forced to delay, scale back or discontinue our development of MST-188, partner it at inopportune times or pursue less expensive but higher-risk and/or lower-return development paths. If we are not able to raise sufficient additional capital as needed, we may be required to delay, scale back or discontinue our development of MST-188 or other programs, or to seek collaborators at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms less favorable than might otherwise be available. For example, if we do not have sufficient capital, we may determine not to investigate certain additional indications for MST-188 or to conduct other studies or activities intended to enhance our intellectual property position, improve the probability of regulatory approval, or expand the scope of MST-188’s clinical benefit and market potential. Delays in and/or reduction of development activities could impair our ability to realize the full clinical and market potential of a product candidate and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, discontinuation of a development program may be viewed negatively, which could adversely affect our stock price. To the extent we discontinue independent development of a product candidate, we may not realize any value from our investment in the discontinued program. Even if we pursue a strategic option, such as partnering, selling or exclusively licensing the program to a third-party, such an option may be not be available on acceptable terms or at all. For example, in prior years, we were focused on developing Exelbine and ANX-514 and expended significant resources on their development; however, in 2011 and 2012, respectively, we elected to discontinue independent development of those programs. Although we are evaluating other opportunities for further development of those agents, such as partnering and licensing arrangements, none may be available and we may not realize any return on our investment in those programs. Our business may suffer if we are unable to retain and attract highly qualified personnel and manage internal growth. Currently, we have a small number of employees and we rely on third parties to perform many essential services for us. Our ability to execute on our business strategy and compete in the highly competitive biopharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical, pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on certain personnel, including our chief executive officer, our president and chief operating officer, our chief medical officer, and our senior vice president, development. Our industries in general and our company in particular historically have experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel. If we lose any of our key employees, our ability to successfully implement our current business strategy could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be a difficult, costly and protracted process, particularly due to the fact that we currently do not have other executive officers or personnel to assume all of the responsibilities of these key employees. In addition, we may seek to increase the size of our organization as development of MST-188 or another product candidate progresses. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly for key positions, is intense among companies in our field, universities and other research organizations, particularly in the San Diego, California area, and many of the organizations against which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources and different risk profiles than our company, which may make them more attractive employers. Our ability to compete for qualified personnel may be adversely affected by our highly volatile stock price. The value to employees of stock options we provide to retain and incentivize them is significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. All of our employees, including our executive officers, may terminate their employment with us at any time with or without notice. If we cannot attract and retain skilled personnel, as needed, we may not achieve our development and other goals. -30- Table of Contents Future internal growth could impose significant added responsibilities on our management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees. We may need to devote a significant amount of time to managing these activities and may not be able to do so effectively. If we are unable to effectively manage future internal growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, we may not be able to achieve our development goals, and our ability to generate and/or grow revenue could be diminished. In the meantime, the success of our business also depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with respected service providers and industry-leading consultants and advisers. If we cannot develop and maintain such relationships, as needed, the rate and success at which we can develop and commercialize product candidates may be limited. In addition, our outsourcing strategy, which has included engaging consultants that spend considerable time in our office to manage key functional areas, may subject us to scrutiny under labor laws and regulations, which may divert management time and attention and have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we determine to grow our business through the acquisition of new technologies and/or product candidates, our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution, we may fail to realize the benefits of any future strategic acquisition or investment and we may incur unexpected costs and disruptions to our business. Although we are focused on developing MST-188, from time to time, we may evaluate pipeline expansion opportunities that we believe will increase the long-term value of our company. The process of identifying, evaluating, negotiating and implementing the purchase or license of new assets is lengthy and complex and may disrupt other development programs and distract our personnel. We have limited resources with respect to identifying, evaluating, negotiating and implementing the acquisition of new assets or rights thereto and integrating them into our current infrastructure. Supplementing our current resources to complete one or more of these transactions may be costly. We may use cash, shares of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock or a combination of cash and our securities to pay the purchase price or license fee for any future strategic transaction. The use of cash could negatively impact our financial position and ability to develop MST-188 or any other product candidate. The use of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock would dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders and, given our recent market capitalization, such dilution could be substantial. For example, in addition to the 1,346,772 outstanding shares we have issued to SynthRx’s former stockholders as consideration for our acquisition of SynthRx that are outstanding, we could issue up to an aggregate of 12,728,050 additional shares of our common stock to such persons upon achievement of milestones related to the development and regulatory approval of MST-188 for the treatment of sickle cell crisis in children. If those milestones are achieved, the number of shares issued and outstanding in connection with the SynthRx acquisition would, in the aggregate, represent an approximately 23.9% ownership stake in our company (based on shares outstanding as of March 8, 2013 plus shares issued in connection with achievement of the milestones). The issuance of shares in connection with other future strategic transactions, if any, may result in the stockholders who own the majority of our voting securities prior to one or more of such transactions owning less than a majority after such transactions. Further, strategic transactions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop and/or commercialize acquired technologies and/or products candidates; • incurrence of substantial debt to pay for acquisitions; • greater than anticipated difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; -31- Table of Contents • impairment of relationships with key suppliers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired business. Our stockholders will be required to rely on the judgment of our management and board of directors as to which new product candidates and/or technologies we pursue and may have limited or no opportunity to evaluate potential new assets prior to completion of a transaction, including the terms of acquisition, the costs of their future development and their commercial potential. We may devote resources to potential acquisition or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. Any technology and/or product candidate that we acquire or to which we acquire rights likely will require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are subject to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities and other risks described under the section titled “Risks Related to Drug Development and Commercialization.” We expend substantial resources to comply with laws and regulations relating to public companies, and any failure to maintain compliance could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and cause investors to lose confidence in our company, which could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Laws and regulations affecting public companies, including provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and by the NYSE MKT have resulted in, and will continue to result in, significant costs to us as we evaluate the implications of these rules and respond to their requirements. For example, compliance with Section 404 of SOX, including performing the system and process documentation and evaluation necessary to issue our annual report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, if applicable, obtain the required attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm, requires us to incur substantial expense and expend significant management time. Further, we have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of internal controls that need improvement. If we identify deficiencies in our internal controls that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could become subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities and lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error and circumvention by collusion or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even an effective internal control system may not prevent or detect material misstatements on a timely basis, or at all. Also, previously effective controls may become inadequate over time as a result of changes in our business or operating structure, and we may fail to take measures to evaluate the adequacy of and update these controls, as necessary, which could lead to a material misstatement. In addition, new laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the coverage that is the same or similar to our current coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees, and as our executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate with any reasonable accuracy the total amount or timing of the costs we may incur to comply with these laws and regulations. Our ability to use net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits to offset future taxable income or future tax will be limited and may be limited further in the future due to changes in ownership (within the meaning of IRC Section 382) that have occurred and may occur in the future. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or IRC, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income, and an ownership change is generally defined as a cumulative change of 50% or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders during a rolling three year period. We have identified several ownership changes within the meaning of IRC Section 382, with the most recent as a result of our November 2011 common stock and warrant financing. As a result of these ownership changes, we do not expect to be eligible to utilize the NOL carry forwards and research and development tax credits we had accumulated as of November 11, 2011. Further ownership changes may occur in the future, which could eliminate or restrict our ability to use NOL carry forwards and research and development tax credits generated after November 11, 2011. Limitations on our ability to use NOL carry forwards and research and development tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than would be required if such limitations were not in effect. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. -32- Table of Contents Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our corporate headquarters are located in a single commercial facility in San Diego, California. Important documents and records, including copies of our regulatory documents and other records for our product candidates, are located at our facilities and we depend on our facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as wildfires and other fires, earthquakes and extended power interruptions, which have impacted San Diego businesses in the past, and terrorist attacks or severe weather conditions, could significantly disrupt our operations and result in additional, unplanned expense. As a small company, we have limited capability to establish and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program and, accordingly, we do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and any natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our business operations and result in setbacks to our development programs. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable insurance, we might suffer losses that are not covered by or exceed the coverage available under these insurance policies. Risks Related to Drug Development and Commercialization Further testing and validation of our product candidates and related manufacturing processes are required and regulatory approval may be delayed or denied, which would delay or prevent us from marketing our product candidates and substantially harm our business. Human pharmaceutical products generally are subject to rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical studies and other approval procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Various federal and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate U.S. and foreign statutes and regulations is time-consuming and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. In addition, these requirements and processes vary widely from country to country. Government regulation and the need for FDA and other regulatory agency approval will delay commercialization of our product candidates, impose costly procedures upon our activities, and may put us at a disadvantage relative to other companies with which we compete. There can be no assurance that FDA or any other regulatory agency will grant marketing approval for MST-188 or any of our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, including due to factors not within our control. For example, the sequester that took effect on March 1, 2013 may result in significant reductions to the FDA’s budget, which may lead to slower response times and longer review periods, potentially affecting our ability to progress development of or obtain approval for MST-188. Clinical studies typically involve a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome. Clinical testing typically is expensive and can take years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Clinical studies may not commence on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical studies can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including difficulties and delays related to: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study; • obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical study at a prospective site; • identifying appropriate study sites and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective study sites and investigators, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among study sites; -33- Table of Contents • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, for the conduct of clinical studies and contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, for the production of clinical trial material, the terms of which agreements can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and CMOs; • failures on the part of our CROs and CMOs in developing procedures and protocols or otherwise conducting activities on timelines requested by us; • identifying and hiring or engaging, as applicable, additional employees or consultants to assist us in managing CRO and/or CMO activities, managing a clinical study and analyzing the data resulting from a study; • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical study; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of clinical trial material due, among other things, to lack of availability of capacity at a CMO or of the component materials, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API; • having patients complete a study and/or return for and complete post-treatment follow-up; and • unforeseen results from other clinical studies or nonclinical testing that require us to amend a study design or halt or terminate a clinical study. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the time required to complete a clinical study, is affected by many factors, including the size and nature of the study subject population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the design of the clinical study, competing clinical studies and clinicians’ and patients’ perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to available alternatives, including therapies being investigated by other companies. Further, completion of a clinical study and/or its results may be adversely affected by failure to retain subjects who enroll in a study but withdraw due to adverse side effects, lack of efficacy, improvement in condition before treatment has been completed or for personal issues or who fail to return for or complete post-treatment follow-up. In addition, a clinical study may be suspended or terminated by us, an IRB, a data safety monitoring board, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the study in accordance with regulatory requirements or the study’s protocol; • inspection of clinical study operations or sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues, including adverse side effects; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the study. Changes in governmental regulations and guidance relating to clinical studies may occur and we may need to amend study protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit protocols to IRBs for reexamination or renegotiate terms with CROs and study sites and investigators, all of which may adversely impact the costs or timing of or our ability to successfully complete a trial. -34- Table of Contents Clinical studies may not begin on time or be completed in the timeframe we anticipate for a variety of reasons, including one or more of those described above. There can be no assurance that any of our future clinical studies will commence, or ongoing studies be completed, as planned. For example, although we expect to move MST-188 directly into phase 2 studies for most new indications we plan to pursue, an IRB or the FDA or another regulatory agency may require additional clinical or nonclinical studies prior to initiation of any planned phase 2 study, which likely would increase the total time and cost of development in that indication. In addition, the length of time necessary to complete clinical studies varies significantly and is difficult to predict accurately. We may make statements regarding anticipated timing for completion of enrollment in and/or availability of results from our clinical studies, but such predictions are subject to a number of significant assumptions and actual timing may differ materially for a variety of reasons including the factors described above. If we experience delays in the completion of a clinical study or if a clinical study is terminated, the commercial prospects for our product candidate may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical studies likely will increase our development costs. Further, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical studies may ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we are able to ultimately commercialize our product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may be introduced to the market in the interim and establish a competitive advantage or diminish the need for our products. Positive results in nonclinical testing and prior clinical studies do not ensure that future clinical studies will be successful or that our product candidates will receive the regulatory approvals necessary for their commercialization. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through nonclinical testing and clinical studies that each product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Based on extensive nonclinical testing, we believe we understand MST-188’s mechanism of action; however, previously observed pharmacologic effects and clinical benefits may not be observed in ongoing or future nonclinical or clinical studies. Success in nonclinical testing and prior clinical studies does not ensure that subsequent or larger-scale studies will be successful. For example, non-purified poloxamer 188 was tested in more than 2,000 human subjects in various indications before the program was discontinued, principally due to concerns regarding acute renal dysfunction observed in patients who received the study drug. In contrast, MST-188 was generally well-tolerated in six prior clinical studies and no clinically significant changes in renal function were observed. However, patient safety concerns may be observed in ongoing or future clinical studies, including EPIC and the TQT study. With respect to efficacy, although there is compelling data from nonclinical and clinical studies of poloxamer 188 in multiple indications, ongoing and future studies may fail to demonstrate clinical benefits to human subjects. Further, clinical study results frequently are susceptible to varying interpretations. Medical professionals, investors and/or regulatory authorities may analyze or weigh study data differently than we do. In addition, determining the value of clinical data typically requires application of assumptions and extrapolations to raw data. Alternative methodologies may lead to differing conclusions, including with respect to the safety or efficacy of our product candidates. For example, alternative methods for applying missing or imputed data may have impacted the treatment effect observed in the prior-sponsor phase 3 study of MST-188 in sickle cell disease. If regulatory authorities disagree with us as to the appropriate methods for analyzing study data, regulatory approval for our product candidates may be delayed, limited or withheld. For instance, despite positive nonclinical testing that indicated bioequivalence between ANX-514 and the reference product, Taxotere, our bioequivalence study of ANX-514 did not demonstrate bioequivalence between ANX-514 and Taxotere based on the FDA’s benchmark regulatory standards and the FDA determined ANX-514 could not be approved based on the findings from that study. In addition, if we license to third parties rights to develop our product candidates in other geographic areas or in other indications, we may have limited control over nonclinical testing or clinical studies that may be conducted by such third-party licensees in those territories or indications. If data from third-party testing identifies a safety or efficacy concern, such data could adversely affect our or another licensee’s development of MST-188. For example, we have licensed to a third party certain rights to ANX-514 in South Korea and have limited control over any nonclinical testing or clinical studies that may be conducted by such third party or a future third-party licensee. If data from investigations of ANX-514 sponsored by a third-party licensee identify a safety or efficacy concern with respect to ANX-514, or the lack of comparable pharmacokinetics between ANX-514 and Taxotere, such data could adversely affect the U.S. regulatory process for ANX-514. There is significant risk that MST-188 could fail to show anticipated results in nonclinical testing and/or clinical studies and, as a result, we may elect to discontinue its development in a particular indication or in whole. A failure to obtain requisite regulatory approvals or to obtain approvals of the scope requested will delay or preclude us from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of the products, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -35- Table of Contents We do not have, and do not have plans to establish, any manufacturing facilities and are dependent on third parties for the manufacture and supply of MST-188, and the loss of any of these manufacturers, or their failure to provide to us with an adequate supply of drug product in a timely manner and on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, could harm our business. We do not have, and do not have plans to establish, our own manufacturing facilities. For MST-188 clinical trial material, we have entered into supply agreements with Pierre Fabre Médicament (PFM) for API and Patheon Inc. for finished drug product, but our current agreements may not cover all of our clinical trial material needs and we may need to negotiate new or amended agreements with these CMOs or rely on individual proposals or statements of work, which inherently involves uncertainty as to ongoing supply and may result in delays in the completion of ongoing clinical studies or initiation of new studies. In addition, as development of MST-188 progresses, we will need to negotiate agreements for its commercial supply. If we fail to maintain relationships with our current CMOs, we may not be able to complete development of MST-188 or market it, if approved, on a timely basis, or at all, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business. Third-party manufacturers and suppliers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. For example, because these third parties provide manufacturing services to a number of other pharmaceutical companies, they may experience capacity constraints or choose to prioritize one or more of their other customers over us. Any significant problem that our manufacturers or suppliers experience could delay or interrupt our supply of clinical trial material or commercial product until the manufacturer or supplier cures the problem or until we locate, negotiate for and validate an alternative source of supply, if one is available. In addition to our reliance on third parties to manufacture clinical trial material, we rely on them to conduct or assist us in conducting key manufacturing development activities, including qualification of equipment, developing and validating methods, defining critical process parameters, releasing component materials and conducting stability testing, among other things. If these third parties are unable to perform successfully in a timely manner, whether for technical, financial or other reasons, we may be unable to secure clinical trial material, which likely would delay the initiation, conduct or completion of our clinical studies, which, in turn, likely would have a material and adverse effect on our business. All manufacturers of our clinical trial material and, as applicable, commercial product, including the API manufacturers, must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program and applicable requirements of foreign regulatory authorities. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our clinical trial material may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. While we or our representatives generally monitor and audit our manufacturers’ systems, we have little control over their ongoing compliance with these regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. Currently, we do not anticipate engaging alternative sources to backup our primary sources of clinical trial material and, in the future, we may not engage backup sources for commercial product. Therefore, if our primary sources become unable or unwilling to perform, we could experience protracted delays or interruptions in the supply of clinical trial material and, ultimately, product for commercial sale, which could materially and adversely affect our development programs, commercial activities, operating results and financial condition. For example, if we are unable to maintain our relationship with PFM, we may be unable to identify or establish a relationship with an alternate CMO that has the technical capabilities and desire to perform the development and supply services that we require for MST-188 API on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Production of purified poloxamer 188, the API in MST-188, requires application of our proprietary supercritical fluid extraction process. This extraction process is complex and requires highly specialized equipment and there are a limited number of CMOs capable of performing and willing to perform the process as we require, which makes identifying and establishing relationships with CMOs more difficult and may provide them with substantial leverage over us in any negotiations. In addition, we use commercially-available poloxamer 188 as API starting material. There are a limited number of sources of poloxamer 188, and we are not aware of any that manufacture it to cGMP requirements applicable to API. The current supplier of our API starting material manufactures it under excipient-grade cGMP conditions. Prior to approval of MST-188, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may require our API starting material to be manufactured consistent with cGMP requirements applicable to API, in which case regulatory approval and commercialization of MST-188 could be delayed significantly and require substantial additional financial resources as we seek to contract with a third party to manufacture poloxamer 188 consistent with cGMP requirements applicable to API or undertake to manufacture it ourselves, and conduct any additional clinical or nonclinical activities with such material as the FDA may require. Even if the FDA accepts our current approach with respect to API starting material, we do not have a direct relationship with the supplier of that starting material and, although that third party has extensive, worldwide operations and poloxamer 188 is part of its standard product portfolio, we do not have any control over its production and the supplier may change its manufacturing process and/or limit the availability of its poloxamer 188 product in the future. If the supplier makes changes to its poloxamer 188 product, the FDA may determine that it is not acceptable API starting material and we may have difficulty obtaining an alternate supply of API starting material that the FDA finds acceptable without our conducting additional clinical or nonclinical activities or taking other remedial measures, which could require substantial time and financial resources. As a result, we could experience significant disruption in our ability to manufacture MST-188, which likely would add significant cost to the overall development and commercialization of MST-188 and adversely affect our ability to develop MST-188 on a timely basis. -36- Table of Contents Any new manufacturer or supplier of finished drug product or its component materials, including API, would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing such product or ingredients. The FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical studies, collect stability data and provide additional information concerning any new supplier, or change in a validated manufacturing process, including scaling-up production, before we could distribute products from that manufacturer or supplier or revised process. For example, if we were to engage a third-party other than PFM to supply API for future MST-188 clinical trial material or commercial product, the FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical and nonclinical studies to ensure comparability of the drug product containing PFM-manufactured API to API manufactured by the new supplier. In addition to the potential for such requirements to result in significant interruption to development and commercialization of MST-188, we likely would incur substantial additional costs to comply with the additional requirements. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling-up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, and shortages of qualified personnel. None of our product candidates, including MST-188, has been manufactured at the scale we believe will be necessary to maximize its commercial value and, accordingly, we may encounter difficulties in attempting to scale-up production and may not succeed in that effort. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may impose additional requirements as we scale-up initial production capabilities, which may delay our scale-up activities or add expense. If our manufacturers encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, we may have insufficient quantities of clinical trial material for our clinical studies, including our ongoing studies. In addition, any delay or interruption in the supply of materials necessary or useful to manufacture our product candidates could delay the completion of our clinical studies, increase the costs associated with our development programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical studies at significant additional expense or terminate the studies completely. We cannot ensure that manufacturing or quality control problems will not arise in connection with the manufacture of our clinical trial material, or that third-party manufacturers will be able to maintain the necessary governmental licenses and approvals to continue manufacturing such clinical trial material. In addition, PFM and Patheon are located in France and Italy, respectively, and, as a result, we may experience interruptions in supply due to shipping or customs difficulties or regional instability. Any of the above factors could cause us to delay or suspend anticipated or on-going trials, regulatory submissions or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical trial material may adversely affect our future costs and our ability to develop and commercialize MST-188 and any other product candidate on a timely and competitive basis. -37- Table of Contents We rely significantly on third parties to conduct our nonclinical testing and clinical studies and other aspects of our development programs and if those third parties do not satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations or meet anticipated deadlines, the development of our product candidates could be adversely affected. We do not employ personnel or possess the facilities necessary to conduct many of the activities associated with our programs. We engage consultants, advisors, CROs, CMOs and others to assist in the design and conduct of nonclinical and clinical studies of our product candidates and with interpretation of the results of those studies, and we expect to continue to outsource a significant amount of such activities. As a result, many important aspects of our development programs are and will continue to be outside our direct control. Consultants and contractors may not be as committed to the success of our programs as employees and, therefore, may not be willing to devote the same time, thoughtfulness or creativity as would an employee. There can be no assurance that such third parties will perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us or will perform those obligations satisfactorily. The CROs that we engage to execute our clinical studies play a significant role in the conduct of the studies and subsequent collection and analysis of data, and we likely will depend on CROs and clinical investigators to conduct future clinical studies and to assist in analyzing completed studies and developing regulatory strategies for our product candidates. Individuals working at the CROs with which we contract, as well as investigators at the sites at which our studies are conducted, are not our employees, and we have limited control over the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If these CROs and/or investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our studies, if they do not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our applications to regulatory agencies and the introduction of our products. Moreover, these CROs may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. Failure of these CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect development of our product candidates. For example, in 2006, we engaged a CRO to assist with the primary conduct of our bioequivalence study of Exelbine, including monitoring participating clinical sites to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements. FDA guidance recommends that clinical sites randomly select and retain reserve samples of study drugs used in bioequivalence studies. However, the clinical sites that participated in our bioequivalence study of Exelbine failed to do so. In August 2011, we received a complete response letter from the FDA stating that the authenticity of the study drugs used in that bioequivalence study could not be verified and, consequently, the study would need to be repeated to address that deficiency. If any of our CRO relationships were to terminate, in particular our relationship with Theradex® Systems, Inc., the CRO we engaged to conduct the EPIC study, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs on acceptable terms or in a timely manner, or at all. Switching CROs would involve additional cost and divert management time and attention. In addition, there likely would be a transition period when a new CRO commences work. These challenges could result in delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical studies, which could materially impact our ability to meet our desired development timelines and have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical studies and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. For example, while we believe our proprietary purification process has addressed the cause of the acute renal dysfunction observed in clinical studies of non-purified poloxamer 188, we cannot provide assurance that the purification process has fully addressed the issue or that renal toxicity will not be observed in ongoing or future studies of MST-188, particularly if we conduct studies in patients with impaired renal function. In addition, transient, generally mild to moderate elevations in liver function tests were associated with treatment with MST-188 in prior clinical studies. If in our clinical studies of MST-188 we observe more pronounced increases in liver function tests, or we observe other previously unidentified adverse events, whether or not statistically significant, we may be required to conduct additional clinical studies of MST-188 or to investigate the clinical significance of the adverse event and MST-188 may not receive regulatory approval. -38- Table of Contents If any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product or, if applicable, the reference product: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical studies or change the labeling of the product; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenue from its sale. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce. We set goals for and make public statements regarding our estimates of the timing for accomplishing certain objectives material to successful development of our product candidates. The actual timing of these events can vary, sometimes dramatically, due to many factors, including delays or failures in our nonclinical testing, clinical studies and manufacturing and regulatory activities and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process. For example, we had expected to initiate the EPIC study in 2012, but unforeseen delays related to the manufacture of clinical trial material delayed initiation of the study to 2013. For additional discussion of these risks, see the risk factors above in this section, “Risks Related to Drug Development and Commercialization.” Even if we complete a clinical study with successful results, we may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we initially anticipate or announce. The FDA may require nonclinical testing and/or clinical studies in addition to EPIC and the TQT study prior to its review or approval of MST-188 in sickle cell disease. If the development plan for MST-188 or any other product candidate becomes more extensive and costly than anticipated, we may determine that the associated time and cost are not financially justifiable and, as a result, discontinue development in a particular indication or of the product candidate as a whole. Any such action may be viewed negatively, which could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, changes may occur in regulatory requirements or policy during the period of product development and/or regulatory review of a submitted NDA relating to the data required to be included in marketing applications. For example, despite including in our initial Exelbine NDA submission in December 2009 data that we believe met the filing requirements for a new drug promulgated by the International Conference on Harmonization, or ICH, as well as site-specific stability data from lots manufactured at the intended commercial manufacturing site, we received a refusal-to-file letter from the FDA indicating that the data included in that submission was insufficient to support a commercially-viable expiration dating period. Consequently, we had to generate 12 months of stability data from material manufactured at our intended commercial manufacturing site before resubmitting the Exelbine NDA, which we did in November 2010. A change in regulatory policy, which may not have been formalized or publicly disseminated, may have been a factor underlying the FDA’s refusal to file our December 2009 submission. Further, throughout development, we must provide adequate assurance to the FDA and other regulatory authorities that we can consistently produce our product candidates in conformance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and other regulatory standards. We rely on CMOs for the manufacture of clinical, and future commercial, quantities of our product candidates. If future FDA or other regulatory authority inspections identify cGMP compliance issues at these third-party facilities, production of our clinical trial material or, in the future, commercial product, could be disrupted, causing potentially substantial delay in development or commercialization of our product candidates. -39- Table of Contents Even if we receive regulatory approval for MST-188 or another product candidate, we may face development and regulatory difficulties that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. Even if initial regulatory approval is obtained, or as a condition to the initial approval, the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency may impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or marketing surveillance programs, any of which would limit the commercial potential of the product. Our product candidates also will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements related to the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information regarding the product. For instance, the FDA may require changes to approved drug labels, require post-approval clinical studies and impose distribution and use restrictions on certain drug products. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continuing regulatory review and periodic inspections. If previously unknown problems with a product are discovered, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, the FDA may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we or a CMO of ours fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend or terminate any ongoing clinical studies; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • exclude our product from reimbursement under government healthcare programs, including Medicaid or Medicare; • impose restrictions or affirmative obligations on our or our CMO’s operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; • close the facilities of a CMO; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. We currently have limited marketing capabilities and no sales capability and our failure to acquire or develop these and related capabilities internally or contract with third parties to perform these activities successfully could delay and/or limit our ability to generate revenue in the event MST-188 or any other product candidate obtains regulatory approval. We currently have limited marketing capabilities and no sales capability and our company has never marketed or sold products. To commercialize MST-188 or any other product candidate, we will have to acquire or develop marketing, distribution, sales and associated regulatory compliance capabilities, or rely on marketing partners or other third parties for the marketing, distribution and sale of our products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to establish adequate marketing, distribution or sales capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform those activities on terms satisfactory to us, or at all, or that any internal capabilities or third-party arrangements will be cost-effective. The acquisition or development of commercialization and associated regulatory compliance capabilities likely will require substantial financial and other resources and divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and, if not completed on time, could delay the launch of an approved product, and otherwise negatively impact our product development and commercialization efforts. -40- Table of Contents To the extent we establish marketing, distribution or sales arrangements with third parties, those third parties may hold significant control over important aspects of the commercialization of our products, including market identification, marketing methods, pricing, composition of sales force and promotional activities. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining these arrangements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to control the amount and timing of resources that any third party may devote to our products or prevent any third party from pursuing alternative technologies or products that could result in the development of products that compete with, or the withdrawal of support for, our products. If we retain third-party service providers to perform functions related to the marketing, distribution and sale of our products, key aspects of those functions that may be out of our direct control could include warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management. In this event, we would place substantial reliance on third-party providers to perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of products to their care and handling. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, encounter natural or other disasters at their facilities or otherwise fail to perform in a satisfactory manner, or at all, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand could be significantly impaired. In addition, we may use third parties to perform various other services for us relating to sample accountability and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, our ability to continue to market our products could be jeopardized or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval fails to achieve significant market acceptance among the medical community, patients or third-party payors, the revenue we generate from its sales will be limited and our business may not be profitable. Our success will depend in substantial part on the extent to which our products candidates, if approved, are accepted by the medical community and patients and reimbursed by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance with respect to each of our approved products, if any, will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the safety and efficacy of our product demonstrated in clinical studies; • acceptance in the medical and patient communities of our product as a safe and effective treatment; • the perceived advantages of our product over alternative treatments, including with respect to the incidence and severity of any adverse side effects and the cost of treatment; • the indications for which our product is approved; • claims or other information (including limitations or warnings) in our product’s approved labeling; • reimbursement and coverage policies of government and other third-party payors; • pricing and cost-effectiveness of our product relative to alternative treatments; • availability of alternative treatments; • the prevalence of off-label substitution of chemically equivalent products or alternative treatments; and • the resources we devote to marketing our product and restrictions on promotional claims we can make with respect to the product. We cannot predict with reasonable accuracy whether physicians, patients, healthcare insurers or maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any of our products. If our product candidates are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by these parties, we may not generate sufficient revenue to become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors regarding benefits of our products may require significant resources and may never be successful. -41- Table of Contents If we determine that a product candidate may not achieve adequate market acceptance or that the potential market size does not justify additional expenditure on the program, we may reduce our expenditures on the development and/or the process of seeking regulatory approval of the product candidate while we evaluate whether and on what timeline to move the program forward. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market one or more of our product candidates in the U.S., we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the U.S., which would limit our ability to realize the full commercial potential of our product candidates. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S., as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. As described above, such effects include the risks that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and have an adverse effect on product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our success will depend on patents and other intellectual property protection we obtain that cover our product candidates and proprietary technology. Our success will depend in part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patent and other exclusivity with respect to our products; • prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; • maintain proprietary know-how and trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others; and • obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement would otherwise occur, both in the U.S. and in foreign countries. The patent and intellectual property positions of biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no guarantee that we have or will develop or obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology we develop or have developed or that is used by us, our CMOs or our other service providers. In addition, any patents that are issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, including by our competitors, and rights we have under issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Patent applications in the U.S. are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors listed in any patent or patent application owned by us were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and patent applications (for U.S. patent applications filed before March 16, 2013), or that such inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions outside the United States and, after March 15, 2013, in the United States. -42- Table of Contents We also rely on unpatented know-how and trade secrets and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and others. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance, however, that binding agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that trade secrets or other proprietary information will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. In addition, it is possible that inventions relevant to our business could be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. With respect to MST-188, we acquired exclusive rights to a variety of issued patents related to poloxamers and their uses. However, we expect many of the patents will expire prior to our obtaining regulatory approval for MST-188. For exclusivity in sickle cell disease, we expect to rely primarily on the orphan drug designation that the FDA has granted for poloxamer 188 (purified) for the treatment of sickle cell disease, which includes the treatment and prevention of the complications of sickle cell disease. However, the orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review or approval process. MST-188 may not receive the seven-year orphan drug marketing exclusivity if it is not the first poloxamer 188 drug product to obtain FDA marketing approval for the treatment of sickle cell disease. In addition, orphan drug exclusive marketing rights may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if we are unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug. Furthermore, if the FDA later determines another drug or biologic for the treatment of sickle cell disease to be clinically superior to or different from MST-188, the FDA may approve such other product candidate for marketing during MST-188’s seven-year exclusivity period. Our success depends in large part on our ability to prevent competitors from duplicating or developing equivalent versions of our product candidates, but patent protection for MST-188 may be difficult to obtain and any issued claims may be limited due to the extent of published literature regarding the use of poloxamer 188. We have filed for patent protection covering our proprietary supercritical fluid extraction process, methods of using poloxamers in various clinical settings, and the use of poloxamers in combination therapy. However, these patent applications cover only methods of manufacturing, methods of using MST-188, and combination therapeutic methods; they do not cover the underlying API. Claims covering the API are widely viewed as the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as they apply without regard to how the API is manufactured, used or formulated. The potential therapeutic benefits of poloxamer 188 have been known for decades and there is substantial prior art describing the use of poloxamer 188 in a wide range of diseases and conditions. As a result, our ability to find novel and non-obvious uses of poloxamer 188 is limited. Further, a patent examiner may combine numerous, disparate references in order to reject a claimed use for obviousness. If the prior art suggests, even implicitly, the desirability of combining previously known elements, such as the use of poloxamer 188 in a particular indication, the subsequent use of MST-188 in that indication may be obvious. We cannot provide assurance that our pending patent applications will issue as patents, that any issued patents will provide us with significant competitive advantages, or that the validity or enforceability of any of our patents will not be challenged or, if instituted, that these challenges will not be successful. The cost of litigation to uphold the validity and prevent infringement of our patents could be substantial. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that others will not independently develop similar technologies or duplicate our technologies or design around the patented aspects of our technologies. We can provide no assurance that our proposed technologies will not infringe patents or rights owned by others, licenses to which might not be available to us. If we are sued for infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have an adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends on our ability and the ability of our CMOs and component suppliers to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are or may be developing products. As the industries in which we operate (biopharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical) expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that we will be subject to claims that our products or product candidates, or their use or manufacture, infringe the rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to publish and issue, there currently may be pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our products, product candidates or technologies infringe, or that the process of manufacturing our products or any of their respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, infringe, or that the use of our products, product candidates or technologies infringe. -43- Table of Contents We or our CMOs or component material suppliers may be exposed to, or threatened with, litigation by third parties alleging that our products, product candidates and/or technologies infringe their patents and/or other intellectual property rights, or that one or more of the processes for manufacturing our products or any of their respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, or the use of our products, product candidates or technologies, infringe their patents and/or other intellectual property rights. If a third-party patent or other intellectual property right is found to cover our products, product candidates, technologies or their uses, or any of the underlying manufacturing processes or components, we could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our technologies or methods unless we are able to obtain a license to the patent or intellectual property right. A license may not be available to us in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, during litigation, the third-party alleging infringement could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable remedy that could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. There generally is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we operate. If a third party claims that we or our CMOs or component material suppliers infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s time and attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including the potential for treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if it is determined that the product at issue infringes or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third-party licenses its intellectual property rights to us, which it may not be required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to the third party; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial expense and time. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, product candidates or technology or those of our CMOs or component material suppliers or the use of our products, product candidates or technologies. Because of the large number of patents issued and patent applications filed in the industries in which we operate, there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, product candidates or technologies, or those of our CMOs or component material suppliers, or uses of our products, product candidates or technologies. In addition, it may be necessary for us to enforce our proprietary rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights, through litigation or other dispute proceedings, which may be costly and adversely affect our rights. Any such proceeding may be costly and, to the extent we are unsuccessful, adversely affect our rights. In these proceedings, a court or administrative body could determine that our claims, including those related to enforcing patent rights, are not valid or that an alleged infringer has not infringed our rights. The uncertainty resulting from the mere institution and continuation of any patent- or other proprietary rights-related litigation or interference proceeding could have a material and adverse effect on us. -44- Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY We expect intense competition in the marketplace for our product candidates, should any of them receive regulatory approval. The industries in which we operate (biopharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical) are highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant change. We are aware of many other organizations developing drug products and other therapies intended to treat or cure the diseases or conditions in which we are developing or plan to develop MST-188. Developments by others may render potential application of MST-188 in a particular indication obsolete or noncompetitive, even prior to completion of its development and approval for that indication. If successfully developed and approved, we expect MST-188 will face intense competition with respect to each indication in which it is approved. We may not be able to compete successfully against organizations with competitive products, particularly large pharmaceutical companies. Many of our potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we do, and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture, market and distribute products. Many of these companies operate large, well-funded research, development and commercialization programs, have extensive experience in nonclinical and clinical studies, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products, and have multiple products that have been approved or are in late-stage development. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Furthermore, heightened awareness on the part of academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations of the potential commercial value of their inventions have led them to actively seek to commercialize the technologies they develop, which increases competition for investment in our programs. In addition, there is increasing interest in developing drugs for “rare diseases,” which may have the effect of increasing the development of agents to treat sickle cell disease, ALI and other indications we may pursue. Legislative action may generate further interest. For instance, in July 2012, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act was signed into law. This Act amended the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act in a variety of ways that encourage or facilitate the development of drugs for patients with rare diseases, including by expanding the priority review voucher system to rare pediatric diseases and encouraging the FDA to implement more effective processes for expedited development and review of new medicines intended to address unmet medical needs for serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions using a broad range of surrogate endpoints. Competitive products may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than ours, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue. With respect to competition for MST-188 in sickle cell disease, we are aware of numerous companies with product candidates in varying stages of development. Some of our potential competitors in sickle cell disease are large, well-financed and experienced pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or have partnered with such companies, which may give them development, regulatory and/or marketing advantages over us. For example, Pfizer and Novartis have each invested in privately-held companies, GlycoMimetics, Inc. and Selexys Pharmaceuticals Corporation, respectively, which have clinical-stage agents for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis. In addition, numerous non-profit or non-commercial foundations and interest groups also are committed to improving outcomes for patients with sickle cell disease. Advances in the understanding of the signaling pathways associated with sickle cell disease may lead to further interest and development of treatment options. If an effective treatment or cure for vaso-occlusive crisis or sickle cell disease receives regulatory approval, the potential commercial success of MST-188 could be severely jeopardized. With respect to competition for MST-188 for complications of arterial disease, although we intend first to develop MST-188 as an adjunct to thrombolytics, it could compete with current revascularization methods, including thrombolytics. In addition, we are aware of a number of potentially competitive investigational therapies for severe forms of thrombotic arterial disease, including angiogenic growth factors, vasoactive drugs, anticoagulants, thrombolytics, anti-platelet agents, cytoprotectives, and blood substitutes, certain of which are in late-stage clinical development. Should any of these other investigational therapies receive regulatory approval prior to MST-188, they may become entrenched in the standard of care, diminish the need for MST-188, or be difficult to displace. With respect to resuscitation of shock following major trauma, MST-188 could compete with various investigational therapies for hemorrhagic shock, including agents to improve blood flow in the microvasculature, improve oxygenation of ischemic tissues, and/or prevent reperfusion injury. Some organizations with potentially competitive therapies have received funding from the federal government to progress their research and development. To the extent other therapies demonstrate acceptable safety and efficacy and receive regulatory approval prior to MST-188, the need for MST-188 may be diminished. In addition to investigational pharmacologic approaches, new resuscitation protocols are being explored to reduce morbidity and mortality following major hemorrhage and, to the extent they are successful, they may diminish the need for MST-188. -45- Table of Contents We are subject to uncertainty relating to healthcare reform measures and reimbursement policies that, if not favorable to our products, could hinder or prevent our products’ commercial success, if any of our product candidates are approved. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: • our ability to set an appropriate price for our products; • the rate and scope of adoption of our products by healthcare providers; • our ability to generate revenue or achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenue and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • our access to additional capital. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish what we believe are appropriate coverage and reimbursement for our products. These payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement, particularly for new therapeutic products or if there is a perception that the target indication of the new product is well-served by existing drugs or other treatments. Accordingly, even if coverage and reimbursement are provided, market acceptance of our products would be adversely affected if the level of coverage and/or reimbursement for our products proved to be unprofitable for healthcare providers or less profitable than alternative treatments. There have been federal and state proposals to subject the pricing of healthcare goods and services to government control and to make other changes to the U.S. healthcare system. While we cannot predict the outcome of current or future legislation, we anticipate that the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will continue to introduce initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of drug products is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. It is uncertain if future legislative proposals, whether domestic or abroad, will be adopted that might affect our products or product candidates or what actions federal, state, or private payors for healthcare treatment and services may take in response to any such healthcare reform proposals or legislation. Any such healthcare reforms could have a material and adverse effect on the marketability of any products for which we ultimately receive FDA or other regulatory agency approval. We face potential product liability exposure and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product or product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. In the future, we anticipate that we will need to obtain additional or increased product liability insurance coverage and it is uncertain whether such increased or additional insurance coverage can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our business (in particular, the use of our product candidates in clinical studies and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval) will expose us to product liability risks. Product liability claims might be brought against us by patients, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against any such claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products and loss of revenue; • impairment of our business reputation; -46- Table of Contents • withdrawal of clinical study participants; • significant costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; and • the inability to commercialize our products and product candidates. We maintain limited product liability insurance for our clinical studies, but our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. We expect that we would expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval of any of our product candidates, but we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance on commercially acceptable terms or may not be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential losses. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drug products that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK If we are unable to maintain compliance with NYSE MKT continued listing standards, our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE MKT equities market, which would likely cause the liquidity and market price of our common stock to decline. Our common stock currently is listed on the NYSE MKT equities market. The NYSE MKT will consider suspending dealings in, or delisting, securities of an issuer that does not meet its continued listing standards, including specified stockholders’ equity levels. In addition, the NYSE MKT will consider suspending dealings in, or delisting, securities selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share if the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such stock within a reasonable time after being notified that the NYSE MKT deems such action to be appropriate under the circumstances. Previously, prior to 2011, we were not in compliance with certain NYSE MKT stockholders’ equity continued listing standards. Specifically, we were not in compliance with (1) Section 1003(a)(ii) of the NYSE MKT Company Guide, or the Company Guide, because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $4,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years, or (2) Section 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide, because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $6,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years. In addition, we were notified, in accordance with Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide, that the NYSE MKT determined it was appropriate for us to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock to address our low selling price per share. In April 2010, we announced that we had resolved the stockholders’ equity continued listing deficiencies and we implemented a 1-for-25 reverse split of our common stock, in part to address the NYSE MKT’s requirement that we address our low stock price. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to maintain compliance with such standards. For example, we may determine to pursue development or other activities or grow our organization or product pipeline or at levels or on timelines that reduces our stockholders’ equity below the level required to maintain compliance with NYSE MKT continued listing standards. In addition, the market price for our common stock historically has been highly volatile, as more fully described below under the risk titled “The market price of our common stock historically has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile,” and has traded at under $1.00 per share for more than twelve consecutive months. The NYSE MKT may again determine that the selling price per share of our common stock is low and require that we effect a reverse stock split of our common stock, which would require stockholder approval that we may be unable to obtain. Our failure to maintain compliance with NYSE MKT continued listing standards could result in the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE MKT. -47- Table of Contents The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE MKT likely would reduce the trading volume and liquidity in our common stock and may lead to decreases in the trading price of our common stock. The delisting of our common stock may also materially impair our stockholders’ ability to buy and sell shares of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could significantly impair our ability to raise capital, which is critical to the execution of our current business strategy. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock in the secondary market. If our common stock were removed from listing with the NYSE MKT, it may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. The market price of our common stock historically has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock historically has been highly volatile, and the market for our common stock has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, based both on our operating performance and for reasons that appear to us unrelated to our operating performance. For instance, on August 10, 2011, the market price for our common stock dropped almost 60% following our announcement of our receipt of the complete response letter for our Exelbine NDA, which stated that the FDA could not approve it in its present form. Conversely, the market price for our common stock increased over 66% in a 30-day period in June and July 2011 and more than doubled over two trading days in late December 2009. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • the level of our financial resources; • announcements of entry into or consummation of a financing or strategic transaction; • changes in the regulatory status of our product candidates, including results of any clinical studies and other research and development programs; • FDA or international regulatory actions and regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events (including clinical study results and regulatory events and actions) by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • developments concerning intellectual property rights generally or those of us or our competitors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or deviations in our business and the trading price of our common stock from the estimates of securities analysts; -48- Table of Contents • events affecting any future collaborations, commercial agreements and grants; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or pursuant to shelf or resale registration statements that register shares of our common stock that may be sold by us or certain of our current or future stockholders; • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; • commencement of delisting proceedings by the NYSE MKT; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • changes in third-party payor reimbursement policies. As evidenced by the August 10, 2011 decline, the realization of any of the foregoing could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced a substantial decline in market price. Moreover, regulatory entities often undertake investigations of investor transactions in securities that experience volatility following an announcement of a significant event or condition. Any such litigation brought against us or any such investigation involving our investors could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Our stock price could decline significantly based on results of clinical and nonclinical studies of MST-188 and regulatory agency decisions affecting that development program. We expect announcements of results of clinical and certain nonclinical studies of MST-188 and regulatory decisions (by us, the FDA, or another regulatory agency) to affect our stock price. Stock prices of companies in our industry have declined significantly when such results and decisions were unfavorable or perceived to be negative or discouraging or when a product candidate did not otherwise meet expectations. If MST-188 study results are not viewed favorably by us or third parties, including investors, analysts, potential collaborators, the academic and medical communities and regulators, our stock price could decline significantly and you could lose your investment in our common stock. We may report top-line study data from time to time, which is based on preliminary analysis of then-available data. Such preliminary findings and conclusions are subject to change following a more comprehensive review of the study data. In addition, results of clinical and nonclinical studies often are subject to different interpretations. We may interpret or weigh the importance of study data differently than third parties, including those noted above. Others may not accept or agree with our analysis of study data, which could impact the approvability of MST-188 and/or the value of the MST-188 program and our company in general. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that such sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by, or the perceived possibility of sales by, us or our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. These sales by our existing stockholders might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Currently, we have effective primary registration statements on Form S-3 under which we may sell and issue more than $205 million of securities. We also have effective resale registration statements on Form S-3 that register a significant number of shares of our common stock and securities convertible into our common stock that may be sold by us or certain of our stockholders, including an effective resale registration statement for the shares of our common stock that have been and may be issued to the former SynthRx stockholders. Collectively, these registration statements may increase the likelihood of sales by, or the perception of an increased likelihood of sales by, us or our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. -49- Table of Contents We currently have voting control with respect to approximately 2.3% of our outstanding common stock and we may obtain voting control over a significant additional amount of our outstanding common stock if we issue the milestone-related shares to the former SynthRx stockholders, and we may determine to cause those shares to be voted in such a manner that does not necessarily coincide with the interests of individual stockholders or particular groups of stockholders. Pursuant to the voting and transfer restriction agreement between us and each of the former principal stockholders of SynthRx, each stockholder party has agreed to vote all shares of our common stock beneficially owned by that party with respect to every action or approval by written consent of our stockholders in such manner as directed by us, except in limited circumstances, and has executed an irrevocable proxy appointing and authorizing us to vote such shares in such manner. If the development of MST-188 achieves each of the milestones set forth in our merger agreement with SynthRx, we will issue an additional 12,728,050 shares of our common stock, which, together with previously issued and outstanding shares held by these former SynthRx stockholders, represent an aggregate approximately 22.5% ownership stake in our company (based on shares outstanding as of March 8, 2013 plus shares issued in connection with achievement of the milestones). As a result of such potential issuances and the voting and transfer restriction agreement, in the future we may have significant control over substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of certain mergers and other business combination transactions. Even if less than all potential milestone-related shares are issued, our ability to control a potentially significant block of stockholder votes pursuant to the voting and transfer restriction agreement may enable us to substantially affect the outcome of proposals brought before our stockholders. Although our board of directors acts in a manner it believes is in the best interest of our stockholders as a whole, the interests of our stockholders as a whole may not always coincide with the interests of individual stockholders or particular groups of stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult, which could depress our stock price. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our bylaws limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders and establish advance notice requirements for nomination of individuals for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In addition, provisions of certain compensatory contracts with our management, such as equity award agreements, may have an anti-takeover effect by resulting in accelerated vesting of outstanding equity securities held by our executive officers. In particular, in the event of a change in control, the vesting of options we granted since July 2009 to certain key executives will accelerate with respect to fifty percent of the then unvested shares on the day prior to the date of the change in control and, subject to the respective executive’s continuous service, with respect to the remaining fifty percent of the then unvested shares on the one year anniversary of the date of the change in control, and could accelerate in full at the time of the change in control if the acquirer does not assume or substitute for the options. As a result, if an acquirer desired to retain the services of one or both of those executives following an acquisition, it may be required to provide additional incentive to them, which could increase the cost of the acquisition to the acquirer and may deter or adversely affect the terms of the potential acquisition. Because we do not expect to pay dividends with respect to our common stock in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, with respect to our common stock, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to various laws and regulations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Due to our intent to retain any future earnings rather than pay cash dividends on our common stock and applicable laws, regulations and contractual obligations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, the success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation and our common stock may not appreciate in value. -50- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We do not have any unresolved comments issued by the SEC staff. 