Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. We urge investors to consider carefully the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Risks Related to Our Capital Requirements, Finances and Operations We have incurred losses since our inception, we expect our operating expenses to continue to exceed our revenues for the foreseeable future and we may never generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. We are a development stage company and have not generated sustainable revenues from operations or been profitable since inception, and we may never achieve profitability. We have devoted our resources to acquiring and developing proprietary product candidates, but such product candidates cannot be marketed until the regulatory process is completed and governmental approvals have been obtained. Accordingly, there is no current source of revenues from operations, much less profits, to sustain our present activities, and no revenues from operations will likely be available until, and unless, our product candidates are approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies and successfully marketed, either by us or a partner, an outcome which we may not achieve. The success of our business currently is dependent primarily on the success of ANX-188 and ANX-514 and these product candidates may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We currently have no products for sale and only two product candidates, ANX-188 and ANX-514 that we actively are developing for regulatory approval. Accordingly, the success of our business currently depends primarily on our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for and then successfully commercialize these product candidates and our efforts in this regard may prove unsuccessful. These product candidates require additional development, including phase 3 clinical studies and significant manufacturing activities prior to commencing clinical studies, all of which require us to expend significant resources and with which we have limited experience. Our product candidates may not be successful in clinical studies or, even if successful in clinical studies, may not receive regulatory approval in a timely manner, or at all. If any of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency, our ability to generate revenues from these products will depend in substantial part on the extent to which they are accepted by the medical community and reimbursed by third-party payors as well as our ability to market and sell them and ensure that our third-party manufacturers produce sufficient quantities of the products to meet commercial demand, if any. Our financial resources are limited, we will need to obtain additional funding to pursue our current business strategy and we may not be able to obtain such funding on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We have experienced significant losses in acquiring and funding the development of our product candidates, accumulating net losses totaling approximately $171.6 million as of December 31, 2011, and we expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future, even if we or a future partner of ours is successful in advancing our product candidates to market. We do not expect to generate cash flows from sales of our products unless and until our products are approved for marketing, the occurrence and timing of which we cannot predict accurately. Our future expenditures on our programs are subject to many uncertainties, including whether our product candidates will be developed or commercialized with a partner or independently. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the costs of seeking regulatory approval for our product candidates, including the number and size of clinical studies necessary to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product candidate and the process development, scale-up and other manufacturing and stability activities, and other work required to achieve such approval, as well as the timing of such activities and approval; • the scope, prioritization and number of development programs we pursue and the rate of progress and costs with respect to each such program; 20 • the extent to which we invest in or acquire new technologies, product candidates, products or businesses and the development requirements with respect to any acquired programs; • the timing and terms of any collaborative, licensing and other strategic arrangements that we may establish; • the costs related to developing, acquiring and/or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and regulatory compliance capabilities, if we obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate and commercialize it without a partner; • the extent to which we increase our workforce and the costs involved in recruiting, training and incentivizing new employees; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the cost involved in establishing, enforcing or defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights. We anticipate that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which were approximately $50.7 million as of December 31, 2011, will be sufficient to fund our currently planned level of operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we may determine to grow our organization and/or pursue development activities for our product candidates at levels or on timelines, or we may incur unexpected expenses, that shorten the period through which our current operating funds will sustain us. We may also seek to expand our product pipeline through acquisition of additional product candidates and/or technologies and the cost to acquire and develop such new product candidates and/or technologies may shorten the period through which our current operating funds will sustain us. For the foreseeable future, we plan to fund our operations through public or private equity and debt financings. We may also seek to raise funds through collaborations, licensing arrangements or other strategic or partnering transactions. However, adequate additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms or on a timely basis, if at all. Even if we incur costs in pursuing, evaluating and negotiating particular capital-raising and/or strategic or partnering transactions, our efforts may not prove successful. We believe global economic conditions, including the continued volatility of U.S. and international equity markets, may adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise capital may be limited by applicable laws and regulations. Historically, we have raised capital through the sale of our equity securities. Since June 2009, we have completed seven equity financings under “shelf” registration statements on Form S-3. Using a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 to raise additional capital is generally more timely and cost effective than other means, such as conducting an offering under a Form S-1 registration statement. However, in the future, our ability to raise capital using a shelf registration statement may be limited by, among other things, current SEC rules and regulations. Under current SEC rules and regulations, we must meet certain requirements to use a Form S-3 registration statement to raise capital without restriction as to the amount of the market value of securities sold thereunder. One such requirement is that the market value of our outstanding common stock held by non-affiliates, or public float, be at least $75.0 million as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing the Form S-3. If we do not meet that requirement, then the aggregate market value of securities sold by us or on our behalf under the Form S-3 during in any 12-month period is limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. Moreover, even if we meet the public float requirement at the time we file a Form S-3, SEC rules and regulations require that we periodically re-evaluate the value of our public float, and if, at a re-evaluation date, our public float is less than $75.0 million, we would become subject to the one-third of public float limitation described above. In addition, under current SEC rules and regulations, in order to use a Form S-3 registration statement if (i) we seek to conduct a primary offering and our public float is not at least $75.0 million as of a date within 60 days prior to the date of filing the Form S-3 or (ii) we seek to register the resale of our securities by persons other than us (i.e., a resale offering), then our common stock must be listed and registered on a national securities exchange. 21 While currently our common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex equities market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such listing. The NYSE Amex reviews the appropriateness of continued listing of any issuer that falls below the exchange’s continued listing standards. Previously, including during part of 2010, we were not in compliance with certain NYSE Amex continued listing standards and were at risk of having our common stock delisted from the NYSE Amex equities market. For additional information regarding this risk, see the risk factor below titled “If we are unable to maintain compliance with NYSE Amex continued listing standards, our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE Amex equities market, which would likely cause the liquidity and market price of our common stock to decline.” Our ability to timely raise sufficient additional capital also may be limited by the NYSE Amex’s stockholder approval requirements for transactions involving the issuance of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. For instance, the NYSE Amex requires that we obtain stockholder approval of any transaction involving the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value, which (together with sales by our officers, directors and principal stockholders) equals 20% or more of our then outstanding common stock, unless the transaction is considered a “public offering” by the NYSE Amex staff. Based on the number of shares of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2012 and on the closing price per share of our common stock on such date, which was $0.64, we could not raise more than approximately $6.1 million without obtaining stockholder approval, unless the transaction is deemed a public offering or does not involve the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value. In addition, certain prior sales by us may be aggregated with any offering we may propose in the future, further limiting the amount we could raise in any future offering that is not considered a public offering by the NYSE Amex staff and involves the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value. The NYSE Amex also requires that we obtain stockholder approval if the issuance or potential issuance of additional shares will be considered by the NYSE Amex staff to result in a change of control of us. Obtaining stockholder approval is a costly and time-consuming process. If we are required to obtain stockholder approval for a potential transaction, we would expect to spend substantial additional money and resources. In addition, seeking stockholder approval would delay our receipt of otherwise available capital, which may materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our current business strategy, and there is no guarantee our stockholders ultimately would approve a proposed transaction. A public offering under the NYSE Amex rules typically involves broadly announcing the proposed transaction, which often times has the effect of depressing the issuer’s stock price. Accordingly, the price at which we could sell our securities in a public offering may be less, and the dilution existing stockholders experience may in turn be greater, than if we were able to raise capital through other means. Our ability to raise capital may be limited by contractual restrictions. In the past, in connection with raising capital through the sale and issuance of our equity securities, we have agreed to certain restrictions on our ability to raise additional capital through additional equity financing transactions. For example, in connection with an equity financing we completed in July 2005, we entered into a rights agreement with certain of the purchasers of our securities, including entities affiliated with Carl C. Icahn. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, dated July 27, 2005, as amended, or the Rights Agreement, we agreed, among other things, to grant the investors that were party to the Rights Agreement, or the Rights Investors, the right to participate in sales of our securities for up to seven years (with certain enumerated exceptions as set forth in the Rights Agreement). Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, we must notify the Rights Investors of certain proposed transactions on the timeline specified in the Rights Agreement. In many of our prior financing transactions, we have requested and received waivers from the Rights Investors with respect to their participation rights, but if we are unable to obtain such waivers in a timely manner, or at all, with respect to future financing transactions, we may be unable to consummate a financing that otherwise may be available to us and in the best interest of our company and stockholders. In addition, in connection with our public offering in November 2011, we entered into an underwriting agreement in which we agreed not to engage for 12 months in variable rate transactions, which involve issuances our securities at prices set or reset at some future date. 22 Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, require us to relinquish proprietary rights or restrict our operations. We may raise additional capital at any time and may do so through one or more financing alternatives, including public or private sales of our equity securities, debt financings, collaborations, licensing arrangements or other strategic transactions. Each of these financing alternatives carries risks. Raising capital through the issuance of common stock may depress the market price of our stock and may substantially dilute our existing stockholders. If we instead seek to raise capital through strategic transactions, such as licensing arrangements or sales of one or more of our technologies or product candidates, we may be required to relinquish valuable rights and dilute the current and future value of our assets. For example, any licensing arrangement would likely require us to share with our licensees a significant portion of any revenues generated by our licensed technologies. Additionally, our control over the development and/or marketing of any products or product candidates licensed or sold to third parties may be reduced and thus we may not realize the full value of any such products or product candidates. Debt financings could involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens or make investments and may, among other things, preclude us from making distributions to stockholders (either by paying dividends or redeeming stock) and taking other actions beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, investors could impose more one-sided investment terms and conditions on companies that have or are perceived to have limited remaining funds or limited ability to raise additional funds. The lower our cash balance, the more difficult it is likely to be for us to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital as needed, we may be forced to delay, reduce or discontinue our current and/or planned development activities, partner our product candidates at inopportune times or pursue less expensive but higher-risk development paths. Although we anticipate that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2011 will be sufficient to fund our operations at their current levels for at least the next 12 months, we expect to need to raise additional capital in order to execute our current business plan. If we are not able to raise sufficient additional capital, we may be required to delay, reduce or discontinue our development activities or attempt to continue them by entering into arrangements with partners or others that may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, and may require us to relinquish some or all of our rights to our product candidates or the financial benefits thereof. For example, if we do not have sufficient capital, we may determine not to investigate additional indications or other label changes for a product candidate or to conduct other studies or activities intended to expand the scale and scope of its clinical benefit and market potential. Any such development delays could impair our ability to realize the full clinical and market potential of a product candidate and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our business may suffer if we are unable to retain and attract key personnel and manage internal growth. Our industry in general and our company in particular historically have experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel. Our ability to execute on our business strategy and compete in the highly competitive pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel for key positions in our company. We are highly dependent on certain personnel, including our chief executive officer, our president and chief operating officer and our senior vice president, development. If we lose any of these key employees, our ability to successfully implement our current business strategy could be seriously harmed. Replacing these key employees may be a difficult, costly and protracted process, particularly due to the fact that we currently do not have other executive officers or personnel to assume all of the responsibilities of these key employees, competition is intense for qualified personnel among pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other businesses and many of the companies against which we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources than our company, which may make them more attractive employers. All of our employees, including our executive officers, may terminate their employment with us at any time with or without notice. In addition, we may seek to increase the size of our organization as our development of our product candidates progresses. Currently, we have only a small number of employees and we rely on third parties to perform many essential services for us. The success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel and to develop and maintain important relationships with respected service providers and industry-leading consultants and advisors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense 23 among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research organizations, particularly in the San Diego, California area. Recruiting and retaining employees, including senior-level personnel, with relevant product development and regulatory experience may be difficult and costly. Our ability to provide competitive compensation to our management and other employees may also be adversely affected by our capital resources and our highly volatile stock price. If we cannot attract and retain additional skilled personnel, we may not achieve our development and other goals. In addition, our outsourcing strategy, which has included engaging consultants that spend considerable time in our office to manage key functional areas, may subject us to scrutiny under labor laws and regulations, which may divert management time and attention and have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we determine to grow our business through the acquisition of new technologies and/or product candidates, our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution, we may fail to realize the benefits of any future strategic acquisition or investment and we may incur unexpected costs and disruptions to our business. Although we are focused on developing our current product candidates, from time to time, we may evaluate pipeline expansion opportunities that we believe will increase the long-term value of our company. The process of identifying, evaluating, negotiating and implementing the purchase or license of new assets is lengthy and complex and may disrupt other development programs and distract our personnel. We have limited experience and resources with respect to identifying, evaluating, negotiating and implementing the acquisition of new assets or rights thereto and integrating them into our current infrastructure. Supplementing our current resources to complete one or more of these transactions may be costly. We may use cash, shares of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock or a combination of cash and our securities to pay the purchase price or license fee for any future strategic transaction. The use of cash could negatively impact our financial position and ability to develop our product candidates. The use of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock would dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders and, given our recent market capitalization, such dilution could be substantial. For example, as consideration for our acquisition of SynthRx, in addition to the 2,800,851 shares we issued to SynthRx’s former stockholders in April 2011, we could issue up to an aggregate of 13,478,050 additional shares of our common stock to such persons upon achievement of milestones related to the development and regulatory approval of ANX-188 for the treatment of sickle cell crisis in children. If all milestones are achieved without reduction, the number of shares we issue in connection with the SynthRx acquisition would, in the aggregate, represent an approximately 27% ownership stake in our company (based on shares outstanding as of March 1, 2012 plus shares issued in connection with achievement of the milestones). The issuance of shares in connection with other future strategic transactions, if any, may result in the stockholders who own the majority of our voting securities prior to one or more of such transactions owning less than a majority after such transactions. Further, strategic transactions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to develop and/or commercialize acquired technologies and/or products candidates; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired business. 24 Our stockholders will be required to rely on the judgment of our management and board of directors as to which new product candidates and/or technologies we pursue and may have limited or no opportunity to evaluate potential new assets prior to completion of a transaction, including the terms of acquisition, the costs of their future development and their commercial potential. We may devote resources to potential acquisition or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. Any technology and/or product candidate that we acquire or to which we acquire rights likely will require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are subject to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe or effective for approval by regulatory authorities and other risks described under the section titled “Risks Related to Drug Development and Commercialization.” The use of our net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits has been and may be limited further by changes in ownership within the meaning of IRC Section 382. Our net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2011, we had generated federal and California net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $43.9 million and $47.4 million, respectively, which will begin to expire in 2018 and 2012, respectively, if unused. As of December 31, 2011, we had federal and California research and development tax credit carry forwards of approximately $0.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The federal research and development credits will begin to expire in 2029. The California research and development credits do not expire. In addition, our ability to use any tax carry forwards or credits to offset future taxable income, if any, has been limited in the past, and may be limited further in the future, by transactions deemed to be ownership changes of our company. Pursuant to Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or IRC, our ability to use any net operating loss carry forwards and research and development credits to offset future taxable income is limited if we experience a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% within a three-year period. During 2010, we completed a formal study to determine whether any ownership change within the meaning of IRC Section 382 occurred during the period from January 1, 2008 through January 7, 2010, and several ownership changes were identified. We determined that our net operating loss carry forwards and research and development credits were significantly adversely affected by the identified ownership changes and adjusted our deferred tax assets accordingly. We currently are conducting a formal study to determine whether any ownership change within the meaning of IRC Section 382 occurred during the period from January 8, 2010 through December 31, 2011. We have not completed this study, but one or more such ownership changes may have occurred as a result of our equity financings during that period. If we determine that an additional ownership change occurred during 2010 or 2011, or if an additional ownership change occurs in the future, the amount of our net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits we could utilize in the future to offset taxable income, if any, could be further restricted or eliminated. Inability to fully utilize our net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We expend substantial resources to comply with laws and regulations relating to public companies, and any failure to maintain compliance could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and cause investors to lose confidence in our company, which could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Laws and regulations affecting public companies, including provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and by the NYSE Amex have resulted in, and will continue to result in, significant costs to us as we evaluate the implications of these rules and respond to their requirements. For example, compliance with Section 404 of SOX, including performing the system and process documentation and evaluation necessary to issue our annual report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and obtain the required attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm, requires us to incur substantial expense and expend significant management time. Further, we have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of internal controls that need improvement. If we identify deficiencies in our internal controls that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could become subject to scrutiny by regulatory authorities and lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error 25 and circumvention by collusion or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even an effective internal control system may not prevent or detect material misstatements on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In addition, new laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the coverage that is the same or similar to our current coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees, and as our executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the total amount or timing of the costs we may incur to comply with these laws and regulations. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our corporate headquarters are located in a single commercial facility in San Diego, California. Important documents and records, including copies of our regulatory documents and other records for our product candidates, are located at our facilities and we depend on our facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as wildfires and other fires, earthquakes and extended power interruptions, which have impacted San Diego businesses in the past, and terrorist attacks or severe weather conditions, could significantly disrupt our operations and result in additional, unplanned expense. As a small company, we have limited capability to establish and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program and, accordingly, we do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and any natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our business operations and result in setbacks to our development programs. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable insurance, we might suffer losses that are not covered by or exceed the coverage available under these insurance policies. Risks Related to Drug Development and Commercialization Further clinical testing of our product candidates is required and clinical studies typically involve a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome. Clinical testing typically is expensive and can take years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Planned clinical studies may not commence on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical studies can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including difficulties and delays related to: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study; • obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a trial at a prospective site; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, for the conduct of our clinical studies and contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, for the production of our clinical trial material, the terms of which agreements can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and CMOs; • failures on the part of our CROs and CMOs in developing procedures and protocols or otherwise conducting activities on timeframes requested by us; • identifying appropriate study sites and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective study sites and investigators, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among study sites; • identifying and hiring or engaging, as applicable, additional employees or consultants to assist us in managing CRO and/or CMO activities, managing a clinical study and analyzing the data resulting from a study; 26 • manufacturing sufficient quantities of clinical trial material due, among other things, to lack of availability of capacity at a CMO or of the component materials, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, or other materials necessary to manufacture our clinical trial material or for various other reasons; • unforeseen results of from other clinical studies or nonclinical testing that require us to amend a study design; • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical study; and • having patients complete a study and/or return for and complete post-treatment follow-up. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the time required to complete a clinical study, is affected by many factors, including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the design of the clinical study, competing clinical studies and clinicians’ and patients’ perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to available alternatives, including therapies being investigated by other companies. Further, completion of a clinical study and/or its results may be adversely affected by failure to retain patients who enroll in a study but withdraw due to adverse side effects, lack of efficacy, improvement in condition before treatment has been completed or for personal issues or who fail to return for or complete post-treatment follow-up. In addition, a clinical study may be suspended or terminated by us, an IRB, a data safety monitoring board, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the study in accordance with regulatory requirements or the study’s protocol; • inspection of clinical study operations or sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues, including adverse side effects; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the study. Changes in governmental regulations and guidance relating to clinical studies may occur and we may need to amend study protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit protocols to IRBs for reexamination or renegotiate terms with CROs and study sites and investigators, all of which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a trial. Although we are planning to initiate a phase 3 clinical study of ANX-188 in 2012, the study may not begin on time or be completed in the timeframe we anticipate for a variety of reasons, including one or more of those described above. There can be no assurance that any of our clinical studies will commence or be completed as planned. The length of time necessary to complete clinical studies varies significantly and is difficult to predict accurately. If we experience delays in the completion of a clinical study or if a clinical study is terminated, the commercial prospects for our product candidate may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical studies likely will increase our development costs. Further, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical studies may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we are able to ultimately commercialize our product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market in the interim and established a competitive advantage. 27 Positive results in nonclinical testing and prior clinical studies do not ensure that future clinical studies will be successful or that our product candidates will receive the regulatory approvals necessary for their commercialization. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through nonclinical testing and clinical studies that each product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Success in nonclinical testing and prior clinical studies does not ensure that subsequent or larger-scale studies will be successful. For example, the positive results generated to date in clinical studies of ANX-188 by prior sponsors do not ensure that our clinical studies will demonstrate that ANX-188 is safe or effective for the indications we are pursuing. In addition, clinical study results frequently are susceptible to varying interpretations and regulatory authorities may disagree on what are appropriate methods for analyzing data, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. For instance, despite positive nonclinical testing that indicated bioequivalence between ANX-514 and the reference product, Taxotere, our bioequivalence study of ANX-514 did not demonstrate bioequivalence between ANX-514 and Taxotere based on the FDA’s benchmark regulatory standards and the FDA determined ANX-514 could not be approved based on the findings from that study. Further, we have licensed to a third party certain rights to ANX-514 in South Korea and have limited control over any nonclinical testing or clinical studies that may be conducted by such third party or a future third-party licensee. If data from investigations of ANX-514 sponsored by a third-party licensee identify a safety or efficacy concern with respect to ANX-514, or the lack of comparable pharmacokinetics between ANX-514 and Taxotere, such data could adversely affect the U.S. regulatory process for ANX-514. There is a significant risk that any of our product candidates could fail to show anticipated results in clinical studies, as was the case in our bioequivalence study of ANX-514, and, as a result, we may not continue their development. A failure to obtain requisite regulatory approvals or to obtain approvals of the scope requested will delay or preclude us from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of the products, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce. Further testing and validation of our product candidates and related manufacturing processes are required and regulatory approval may be delayed or denied, which would delay or prevent us from marketing our product candidates and substantially harm our business. Human pharmaceutical products generally are subject to rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical studies and other approval procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Various federal and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate U.S. and foreign statutes and regulations is time-consuming and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. In addition, these requirements and processes vary widely from country to country. To varying degrees based on the regulatory plan for each of our product candidates, the effect of government regulation and the need for FDA and other regulatory agency approval will delay commercialization of our product candidates, impose costly procedures upon our activities, and put us at a disadvantage relative to larger companies with which we compete. There can be no assurance that FDA or other regulatory approval for any product candidates developed by us, alone or with a future partner, will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. We set goals for and make public statements regarding our estimates of the timing for accomplishing certain objectives material to successful development of our product candidates. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to many factors, including delays or failures in our nonclinical testing, clinical studies and manufacturing and regulatory activities and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process. For example, although we reached agreement with the FDA on a pivotal clinical study of ANX-514 that would support approval of ANX-514 without a corticosteroid premedication regimen, we do not plan to initiate the agreed-upon study during 2012, but plan to investigate methods, including devices, that can assess the incidence of fluid retention (the primary endpoint previously agreed upon with the FDA) more accurately and objectively than the current method of clinical observation, which may increase the time and cost of seeking regulatory approval for ANX-514 relative to our previously planned pathway. In addition, if the FDA determines that the authenticity of the study drugs used in our bioequivalence study of ANX-514 cannot be verified, including because of the manner in which reserve samples were selected and 28 maintained, we may be required to repeat the bioequivalence study prior to regulatory approval of ANX-514, and the results of a repeat study may cause the FDA to require additional clinical studies. Further, the FDA may inquire regarding the manufacturing source, in-process and product release specifications and overall uniformity of reference product used in our bioequivalence study, particularly since it was conducted at sites in multiple countries, and we may be unable to provide documentation satisfactory to the FDA with respect to such reference product, which may result in the FDA requiring that we evaluate additional patients, re-perform the bioequivalence study, conduct clinical studies or take other remedial measures. Further, the form of API used in the manufacture of ANX-514 for our bioequivalence study will not be the same form of API used in the manufacture of ANX-514 for any future clinical studies of ANX-514 or for process validation batches or commercial supply. To ensure the comparability of the ANX-514 used in the bioequivalence study and the ANX-514 intended for use in any future clinical study and commercial sale, the FDA may require that we evaluate each form of ANX-514 in additional patients, conduct other clinical studies or take other remedial actions. We may have insufficient quantities of each form of ANX-514 and could incur substantial cost and delay in acquiring such quantities, in addition to the time and expense associated with conducting the evaluation, conducting other clinical studies or taking other remedial measures. In addition, even though the FDA has confirmed the appropriateness of a Section 505(b)(2) regulatory path for ANX-514, the FDA’s views may change and the FDA may not allow us to rely on data regarding the safety and efficacy of Taxotere in its evaluation of an NDA for ANX-514 or the FDA may allow us to rely only on certain subsets of the efficacy data related to Taxotere, in which case we likely would need to conduct substantial, additional clinical and nonclinical work prior to regulatory approval. Furthermore, we may determine to conduct clinical studies with respect to ANX-514 to support uses in new indications or other label changes or for other reasons. With respect to ANX-188, the FDA may require nonclinical testing and/or clinical studies in addition to our planned phase 3 and other clinical studies to demonstrate that ANX-188 is a safe and effective treatment for patients with sickle cell disease in acute crisis. If the development plan for any of our product candidates becomes more extensive and costly than anticipated, we may determine that the associated time and cost are not financially justifiable and, as a result, discontinue the program. If we discontinue either of our current programs, our business and stock price may suffer. Even if we complete a planned clinical study with successful results, we may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we initially anticipate or announce. For example, in August 2011, we received a complete response letter from the FDA stating that it could not approve our NDA for Exelbine in its present form. In particular, the letter stated that, based on inspections at clinical sites, the authenticity of the drug products used in the pivotal bioequivalence trial could not be verified and that the bioequivalence trial would need to be repeated to address this deficiency. As a result, we elected to discontinue independent development of Exelbine. In addition, changes may occur in regulatory requirements or policy during the period of product development and/or regulatory review of a submitted NDA relating to the data required to be included in marketing applications. For example, despite including in our initial Exelbine NDA submission in December 2009 data that we believe met the filing requirements for a new drug promulgated by the International Conference on Harmonization, or ICH, as well as site-specific stability data from lots manufactured at the intended commercial manufacturing site, we received a refusal-to-file letter from the FDA indicating that the data included in that submission was insufficient to support a commercially-viable expiration dating period. Consequently, we had to wait for 12 months of site-specific stability data from the intended commercial manufacturing site to be generated before resubmitting an NDA for Exelbine, which we did in November 2010. A change in regulatory policy, which may not have been formalized or publicly disseminated, may have been a factor underlying the FDA’s refusal to file our December 2009 submission. Further, throughout development, we must provide adequate assurance to the FDA and other regulatory authorities that we can consistently produce our product candidates in conformance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and other regulatory standards. We rely on CMOs for the manufacture of clinical, and future commercial, quantities of our product candidates. If future FDA or other regulatory authority inspections identify cGMP compliance issues at these third-party facilities, production of our clinical trial material or, in the future, commercial product, could be disrupted and require substantial resources to correct. In connection with any NDA that we file under Section 505(b)(2) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, including an NDA for ANX-514, we may be required to notify third parties that we have certified to the FDA that any patents listed for the reference product in the FDA’s Orange Book publication are invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of our product. If the third party files a patent 29 infringement lawsuit against us within 45 days of its receipt of notice of our certification, the FDA is automatically prevented from approving our NDA until, subject to certain adjustments, the earliest of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to us. Accordingly, we may invest significant time and expense in the development of our product candidates, including ANX-514, only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before our products may be commercialized. We do not have, and do not intend to establish, manufacturing capabilities and are dependent on third parties to conduct manufacturing process development activities and to provide us with clinical trial materials and, if any of our products are approved, commercial product, and the loss of any of these manufacturers, or their failure to provide to us with an adequate supply of our product candidates in a timely manner and on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, could harm our business. We do not have any manufacturing capability and, currently, do not have any long-term development or supply agreements with any third-party manufacturer or component supplier. We may not be able to establish these relationships in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to establish and maintain such relationships, we may not be able to complete development of our product candidates or market our products, if approved, on a timely basis, or at all, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business. Even if we successfully establish these relationships with third-party manufacturers and component suppliers on commercially acceptable terms, these manufacturers and suppliers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Because many of our suppliers provide manufacturing services to a number of other pharmaceutical companies, our suppliers may experience capacity constraints or choose to prioritize one or more of their other customers over us. Any significant problem that our manufacturers or suppliers experience could delay or interrupt the supply to us of clinical trial materials or commercial products until the manufacturer or supplier cures the problem or until we locate, negotiate for and validate an alternative source of supply, if an alternative source is available. Currently, we do not anticipate engaging alternative sources to backup our primary sources of clinical trial material or, as applicable in the future, commercial product. Therefore, if our primary sources become unable or unwilling to perform, we could experience protracted delays or interruptions in the supply of our product candidates for our clinical studies and, ultimately, for commercial sale, which could materially and adversely affect our development programs and commercial activities and operations. In addition to supplying clinical trial material for our clinical studies, we rely on third-parties to conduct key manufacturing development activities, including qualification of equipment, developing and validating methods, defining critical process parameters, releasing component materials and conducting stability testing, among other things. If these third parties are unable to perform successfully in a timely manner, whether for technical, financial or other reasons, we may be unable to secure clinical trial materials, which likely would delay the initiation, conduct or completion of our clinical studies, which likely would have a material and adverse effect on our business. Further, there may be a limited number of third-party manufacturers with the technical capabilities and desire to perform the development and supply services that we require. For instance, the API for ANX-188 is a purified form of P188 that is produced through a proprietary extraction process. This extraction process is complex and requires highly specialized equipment and there are a limited number of CMOs capable and willing to perform the process as we require, which makes identifying and establishing relationships with CMOs more difficult and may provide them with substantial leverage over us in any negotiations. In addition, although P188 (non-purified) is widely available, it generally is manufactured to cGMP requirements applicable to excipients, rather than cGMP requirements applicable to API. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies require the ANX-188 active ingredient starting material to be manufactured consistent with cGMP requirements applicable to API, we likely would engage a CMO to manufacture the ANX-188 active ingredient starting material, which would add significant additional cost to the development and commercialization of ANX-188 and likely would adversely affect our ability to develop ANX-188 on a timely and competitive basis, if we are able to find a CMO capable and willing to conduct such activities at all. All manufacturers of our clinical and commercial products and product candidates, as well as the manufacturers of the active ingredients included in our products and product candidates, must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program, as well as applicable requirements of foreign regulatory authorities. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products and product candidates may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. While we or our 30 representatives generally monitor and audit our manufacturers’ systems, we have little control over our manufacturers’ ongoing compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. Furthermore, the manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling-up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, and shortages of qualified personnel. If our manufacturers encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, we may have insufficient quantities of our product candidates for our planned and any future clinical studies. In addition, any delay or interruption in the supply of supplies necessary or useful to manufacture our product candidates could delay the completion of our planned and any future clinical studies, increase the costs associated with maintaining our development programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the trials completely. We cannot ensure that manufacturing or quality control problems will not arise in connection with the manufacture of our products or product candidates, or that third-party manufacturers will be able to maintain the necessary governmental licenses and approvals to continue manufacturing such products or product candidates. Any of the above factors could cause us to delay or suspend anticipated or on-going trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products and product candidates may adversely affect our future costs and our ability to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. If any of our product candidates are approved by the FDA or another regulatory authority, any problems or delays experienced in their manufacturing processes may impair our ability to provide commercial quantities of the products, which would limit our ability to sell the products and adversely affect our business. Redesigning our manufacturing processes or identifying alternative suppliers in response to problems we may encounter could take significant time, if such alternative processes and suppliers are available at all. Even if we are able to identify alternative suppliers, they may be unwilling to manufacture our products on commercially reasonable terms. None of our product candidates have been manufactured at the scales we believe will be necessary to maximize their commercial value and, accordingly, we or a future partner of ours may encounter difficulties in attempting to scale-up production and may not succeed in scaling-up production. Any new supplier of products or component materials, including API, would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing such products or ingredients. The FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical studies, collect stability data and provide additional information concerning any new supplier, or change in a validated manufacturing process, before we could distribute products from that supplier or revised process. For example, if the FDA requires substantial stability or other data from the new manufacturer, which would take significant time and cost to generate, our ability to meet commercial demand, if any, could be impaired. In addition, obtaining the necessary FDA or other applicable regulatory approvals and ensuring non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in a significant interruption of supply and require the new supplier to bear significant additional costs, which may be passed on to us. We rely significantly on third parties to conduct our nonclinical testing and clinical studies and other aspects of our development programs and if those third parties do not satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations or meet anticipated deadlines, the development of our product candidates could be adversely affected. We do not employ personnel or possess the facilities necessary to conduct many of the activities associated with our programs. We engage consultants, advisors, CROs, CMOs and others to design, conduct, analyze and interpret the results of nonclinical tests and clinical studies in connection with the research and development of our product candidates, and we expect to continue to outsource a significant amount of such activities. As a result, many important aspects of our product candidates’ development are and will continue to be outside our direct control. For instance, we lacked the internal capabilities to fully analyze the data from our bioequivalence study of ANX-514 and 31 relied on multiple third-party consultants to help us interpret and understand the data. Because of the impact different analyses of the data may have on the success of our business, an employee may have approached the data and analysis in a substantially more rigorous, thoughtful and creative manner than a consultant or contractor. There can be no assurance that such third parties will perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us or will perform those obligations satisfactorily. The CROs that we engage to execute our clinical studies play a significant role in the conduct of the studies and subsequent collection and analysis of data, and we likely will depend on CROs and clinical investigators to conduct future clinical studies and to assist in analyzing completed studies and developing regulatory strategies for our product candidates. Individuals working at the CROs with which we contract, as well as investigators at the sites at which our studies are conducted, are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If these CROs and/or investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our studies, if they do not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our applications to regulatory agencies and the introduction of our products. Moreover, these CROs may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. Failure of these CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect development of our product candidates. For example, in 2006, we engaged a CRO to assist with the primary conduct of our bioequivalence study of Exelbine, including monitoring participating clinical sites to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements. FDA guidance recommends that clinical sites randomly select and retain reserve samples of study drugs used in bioequivalence studies. However, the clinical sites that participated in our bioequivalence study of Exelbine failed to do so. In August 2011, we received a complete response letter from the FDA stating that the authenticity of the study drugs used in Study 530-01 could not be verified and, consequently, the bioequivalence study would need to be repeated to address that deficiency. If any of our CRO relationships were to terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs on acceptable terms or in a timely manner, or at all. Switching CROs would involve additional cost and divert management time and attention. In addition, there likely would be a transition period when a new CRO commences work. These challenges could result in delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical studies, which could materially impact our ability to meet our desired development timelines and have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical studies and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. For example, in clinical studies of ANX-188 conducted by a prior sponsor, transient, generally mild to moderate elevations in liver function tests were associated with treatment with ANX-188. If in our clinical studies of ANX-188 we observe more pronounced increases in liver function tests, or we observe other previously unidentified adverse events, whether or not statistically significant, we may be required to conduct additional clinical studies of ANX-188 or ANX-188 may not receive regulatory approval. In addition, if in future clinical studies of ANX-514 we observe adverse events, including as a result of eliminating corticosteroid premedication, we may be required to conduct further studies of ANX-514 or ANX-514 may not receive regulatory approval. If any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product or the reference product: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical studies or change the labeling of the product; and • our reputation may suffer. 32 Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Even if we receive regulatory approval for one or more of our product candidates, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. Even if initial regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or marketing surveillance programs. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements related to the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information regarding the product. For instance, the FDA may require changes to approved drug labels, require post-approval clinical studies and impose distribution and use restrictions on certain drug products. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continuing regulatory review and periodic inspections. If previously unknown problems with a product are discovered, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, the FDA may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we or a CMO of ours fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend or terminate any ongoing clinical studies; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • exclude our product from reimbursement under government healthcare programs, including Medicaid or Medicare; • impose restrictions or affirmative obligations on our or our CMO’s operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; • close the facilities of a CMO; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. We currently have no sales or marketing capability and our failure to acquire or develop these and related capabilities internally or contract with third parties to perform these activities successfully could delay and/or limit our ability to generate revenues in the event one or more of our product candidates obtains regulatory approval. We currently do not have sales, marketing or other commercialization personnel. To commercialize our products, we will have to acquire or develop marketing, distribution, sales and associated regulatory compliance capabilities, or rely on marketing partners or other third parties for the marketing, distribution and sale of our products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to establish marketing, distribution or sales capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform those activities on terms satisfactory to us, or at all, or that any internal capabilities or third-party arrangements will be cost-effective. The acquisition or development of commercialization and associated regulatory compliance capabilities likely will require substantial financial and other resources and divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and, if not completed on time, could delay the launch of a product candidate and otherwise negatively impact our product development and commercialization efforts. 33 To the extent we establish marketing, distribution or sales arrangements with third parties, those third parties may hold significant control over important aspects of the commercialization of our products, including market identification, marketing methods, pricing, composition of sales force and promotional activities. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining these arrangements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to control the amount and timing of resources that any third party may devote to our products or prevent any third party from pursuing alternative technologies or products that could result in the development of products that compete with, or the withdrawal of support for, our products. If we retain third-party service providers to perform functions related to the marketing, distribution and sale of our products, key aspects of those functions that may be out of our direct control could include warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management. In this event, we would place substantial reliance on third-party providers to perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of products to their care and handling. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, encounter natural or other disasters at their facilities or otherwise fail to perform in a satisfactory manner, or at all, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand could be significantly impaired. In addition, we may use third parties to perform various other services for us relating to sample accountability and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, our ability to continue to market our products could be jeopardized or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval do not achieve significant market acceptance among the medical community, patients or third-party payors, the revenues we generate from their sales will be limited and our business may not be profitable. Our success will depend in substantial part on the extent to which our products, if approved, are accepted by the medical community and patients and reimbursed by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance with respect to each of our approved products, if any, will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the safety and efficacy of our product demonstrated in clinical studies; • acceptance in the medical and patient communities of our product as a safe and effective treatment; • the perceived advantages of our product over alternative treatments, including with respect to the incidence and severity of any adverse side effects and the cost of treatment; • the indications for which our product is approved; • claims or other information (including limitations or warnings) in our product’s approved labeling; • reimbursement and coverage policies of government and other third-party payors; • pricing and cost-effectiveness of our product relative to alternative treatments; • availability of alternative treatments; • the prevalence of off-label substitution of chemically equivalent products or alternative treatments; and • the resources we devote to marketing our product and restrictions on promotional claims we can make with respect to the product; We cannot predict whether physicians, patients, healthcare insurers or maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any of our products. If our products are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by these parties, we may not generate sufficient revenues to become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors regarding the benefits, if any, of our products may require significant resources and may never be successful. 34 In addition, if we, or a future partner or licensee, fail to obtain a unique Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System, or HCPCS, product code for any of our approved products, we, or our partner or licensee, may be unable to sell those products at a price that exceeds their respective manufacturing, marketing and distribution costs. Sales of pharmaceuticals that patients are restricted from self-administering, such as injectable chemotherapy drugs, are dependent in large part on the availability and rate of reimbursement from third-party payors to the healthcare providers that purchase the drugs and administer them to patients. The HCPCS was established to identify and provide unique codes for healthcare goods and procedures, and virtually all third-party payors, including Medicare and private insurance plans, use it in setting their reimbursement rates. In determining a specific reimbursement rate for a drug, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, publishes an average sales price for the drug based on manufacturer-reported sales data for all drugs within the same HCPCS product code as well as a reimbursement rate, expressed as a percentage of the average sales price. Because generic equivalents of drugs are assigned the same HCPCS product code as the original drug, generic competition can be expected to decrease the level of reimbursement for all drugs with the same HCPCS product code until price equilibrium is reached. If our products are not assigned a unique HCPCS product code, they will not be reimbursed based on a sales price that we set but based on an average of prices of drugs with the same HCPCS product code, which could limit our ability to set an appropriate price for our product and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Even if we, or our partner or licensee, obtain unique HCPCS product codes for one or more of our approved products, if they are perceived to provide little or no advantage relative to competing products or for other reasons, we, or our partner or licensee, as applicable, may be required to price those products at levels that do not cover the costs to manufacture, market and distribute the products or provide any profit, or to price those products at levels at which they are not competitive. For instance, even if future clinical studies demonstrate that ANX-514 can be administered safely without corticosteroid premedication, and the FDA approves ANX-514 without requiring a high-dose corticosteroid premedication regimen, the medical community and/or third-party payors may not perceive the avoidance of high-dose corticosteroid premedication as a meaningful benefit to patients, which likely would negatively impact adoption of, and the sales price for, ANX-514. There can be no assurance that, in the future, we will continue to develop or seek regulatory approval for our current product candidates as quickly as possible, or at all, if, among other factors, we determine a product candidate may not achieve adequate market acceptance. Additionally, in the future, we may reduce our expenditures on the development and/or the process of seeking regulatory approval of these product candidates while we evaluate whether and on what timeline to move the programs forward. Even if we receive regulatory approval for one or more of our product candidates, our products may face competition from lower priced alternatives. The currently marketed reference products against which our emulsion-formulation product candidates would compete are available as generics. For instance, ANX-514 would compete against Taxotere and other formulations of docetaxel, including generic versions of Taxotere. Even if we obtain a unique HCPCS product code for our products, the existence of generic products could make it more difficult for our branded products to gain or maintain market share and could cause prices for our products to drop, potentially below our cost of goods, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, we may face competition for our products from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. Proposed federal legislative changes may expand consumers’ ability to import lower priced versions of our and competing products from Canada. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, it is possible other states and local governments may launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our business and prospects. 35 Even if we receive regulatory approval to market one or more of our product candidates in the U.S., we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the U.S., which would limit our ability to realize the full commercial potential of our product candidates. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S., as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. As described above, such effects include the risks that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and have an adverse effect on product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, with respect to our emulsion-formulation product candidates, other countries may not have a comparable regulatory procedure as is available under Section 505(b)(2) of FDCA. Even if a country did have a comparable procedure, that country may require a more robust data package than the FDA. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our success will depend on patents and other protection we obtain on our product candidates and proprietary technology. Our success will depend in part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patent and other exclusivity with respect to our products; • prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; • maintain trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others; and • obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement would otherwise occur, both in the U.S. and in foreign countries. The patent and intellectual property positions of biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no guarantee that we have or will develop or obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology we develop or have developed or that is used by us, our CMOs or our other service providers. In addition, any patents that are issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, including by our competitors, and rights we have under issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Patent applications in the U.S. are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors listed in any patent or patent application owned by us were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and patent applications or that such inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We also may rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and others. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance, however, that binding agreements will not be 36 breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. In addition, it is possible that inventions relevant to our business could be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. With respect to ANX-188 for the treatment of sickle cell crisis, we acquired exclusive rights to a variety of issued patents that cover, among other things, P188, purified P188, methods of treating sickle cell anemia using P188 and methods of preparing purified P188. However, we expect many of the patents covering ANX-188 for the treatment of sickle cell crisis will expire prior to regulatory approval of ANX-188 for that indication. For exclusivity, we expect to rely primarily on the orphan drug designation that the FDA has granted for P188 for the treatment of sickle cell crisis. However, the orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review or approval process. ANX-188 would not receive the seven-year orphan drug marketing exclusivity if it is not the first P188 drug product to obtain FDA marketing approval for the treatment of sickle cell crisis. In addition, orphan drug exclusive marketing rights may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug. Furthermore, if the FDA later determines another drug or biologic for the treatment of sickle cell crisis to be clinically superior to or different from ANX-188, the FDA may approve such other product candidate for marketing during ANX-188’s seven year exclusive marketing period. Patent protection for our emulsion-formulation product candidates may be difficult to obtain and any issued claims may be limited because of the nature of patent protection available for these candidates. Our emulsion-formulation product candidates consist of common excipients that emulsify the underlying chemical entity. We believe the specific combinations of excipients in our formulations are not obvious and that many of the properties that the resulting formulations exhibit are surprising. However, there is substantial prior art involving the emulsification of drugs and a patent examiner may combine numerous disparate references in order to reject our formulations for obviousness. A patent examiner could also determine that, even without combining references, the prior art taught the specific combination of excipients in our formulations or that, for other reasons, such combination was obvious. If our formulations are deemed obvious, the invention would not be patentable. In addition, while the patent applications and issued patents covering our emulsion-formulation product candidates, including Exelbine and ANX-514, include product claims, they cover only specific formulations of the API, and not the API itself. Such product claims are not as strong as claims covering APIs, which are widely viewed as the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as they apply without regard to how the API is formulated or the method in which the API is used. A competitor may modify our formulations and obtain regulatory approval for products with largely the same formulation as our products. Such competitive products may not infringe any patents we may hold in the future covering our specific formulation of the API. If we are sued for infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have an adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends on our ability and the ability of our CMOs and component suppliers to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are or may be developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that we will be subject to claims that our products or product candidates, or their use, infringe the rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to publish and issue, there currently may be pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our products, product candidates or technologies infringe, or that the process of manufacturing our products or any of their respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, infringe, or that the use of our products, product candidates or technologies infringe. We or our CMOs or component material suppliers may be exposed to, or threatened with, litigation by third parties alleging that our products, product candidates and/or technologies infringe their patents and/or other intellectual property rights, or that one or more of the processes for manufacturing our products or any of their respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, or the use of our products, product candidates or technologies, infringe their patents and/or other intellectual property rights. If a third-party patent or other intellectual property right is found to cover our products, product candidates, technologies or their uses, or any of the underlying manufacturing processes or components, we could be required to pay damages and could be 37 unable to commercialize our products or use our technologies or methods unless we are able to obtain a license to the patent or intellectual property right. A license may not be available to us in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, during litigation, the third-party alleging infringement could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable remedy that could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our CMOs or component material suppliers infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s time and attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including the potential for treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its intellectual property rights to us, which it may not be required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to the third party ; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial expense and time. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, product candidates or technology or those of our CMOs or component material suppliers or the use of our products, product candidates or technologies. Because of the large number of patents issued and patent applications filed in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, product candidates or technologies, or those of our CMOs or component material suppliers, or uses of our products, product candidates or technologies. In addition, it may be necessary for us to enforce patents under which we have rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights, which may affect our rights. In litigation or administrative proceedings, we may not succeed in causing a court or administrative body to find that one or more of our patents are valid or that an alleged infringer has infringed one or more of our patents. The uncertainty resulting from the mere institution and continuation of any patent related litigation or interference proceeding could have a material and adverse effect on us. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY We expect intense competition in the marketplace for each of our products, if any of our product candidates are approved. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and rapidly changing. If successfully developed and approved, our products will likely compete with existing and new products and therapies and our competitors may succeed in commercializing products more rapidly or effectively than us, which would have a material and adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from product sales. In addition, there are numerous companies with a focus in hematology or oncology or that are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions as are targeted by the products that we are developing. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition in the future as new products enter the market and new technologies become available. Existing products or new products developed by competitors may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than those we may market and sell. Competitive products may render our products and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. 38 With respect to competition for ANX-188 for the treatment of sickle cell crisis, we are aware of numerous companies with product candidates in varying stages of development for the treatment of sickle cell crisis. In addition, we expect advances in the understanding of the signaling pathways associated with sickle cell disease to lead to further interest and development of treatment options. More broadly, ANX-188, if approved for the treatment of sickle cell crisis, would compete against agents designed to treat sickle cell disease, of which sickle cell crisis is a condition. Hydroxyurea, a form of chemotherapy used for myeloproliferative disease, is an approved product that has been shown to decrease the frequency of sickle cell crisis. Blood transfusions also are used to treat patients with sickle cell disease. Bone marrow and stem cell transplantation have also been shown to be effective to treat and, in some cases, cure sickle cell disease. In addition, there is increasing interest in developing drugs for “rare diseases,” which may have the effect of increasing the development of agents to treat sickle cell disease generally or sickle cell crisis in particular. GlaxoSmithKline and Pfizer each have a unit focused on rare diseases. Legislative action, such as the potential to expand the priority review voucher system to rare pediatric diseases, may generate further interest. If an effective treatment or cure for sickle cell disease or sickle cell crisis receives regulatory approval, the commercial success of ANX-188, if approved, could be severely jeopardized. ANX-514 and Exelbine, if approved, would compete against Taxotere and Navelbine, respectively, as well as their generic equivalents and other formulations of docetaxel and vinorelbine. If our emulsion-formulation product candidates receive regulatory approval based on bioequivalence to their currently marketed reference products, our ability to differentiate them from competing products will be limited. Even if we believe they demonstrate clinical, pharmacoeconomic or other benefits relative to competing products, we may be unable to market or promote them based on these benefits. If ANX-514 and/or Exelbine receive regulatory approval, but such approval is for less than all of the indications for which Taxotere and Navelbine, respectively, are approved, the commercial success of those products could be significantly limited. If our products do not receive unique HCPCS product codes, we may be required to price our products at levels that do not cover our costs to manufacture, market and distribute the products or provide any profit, or to price our products at levels at which they are not competitive. In addition, numerous companies are focused on reformulating currently approved chemotherapeutic agents. In particular, the taxanes, the class of drugs of which Taxotere is a member, have experienced substantial commercial success, in part as a result of their effectiveness in treating a wide variety of cancers, which has generated significant interest in reformulating Taxotere and other taxanes. For instance, in 2010, the FDA approved Jevtana® for treatment of patients with hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer previously treated with a docetaxel-containing treatment regimen. The active ingredient of Jevtana is cabazitaxel, an antineoplastic agent belonging to the taxane class. In addition to our approach of emulsifying docetaxel, other companies may be pursuing alternative delivery vehicles, including the use of albumin nanoparticles, prodrugs, polyglutamates, analogs, co-solvents, liposomes and microspheres. Many of these or similar approaches could be applied to vinorelbine. Relative to our formulations, formulations based on one or more of these other methods may result in greater efficacy or safety, provide better drug delivery to tumor sites or otherwise increase benefits to patients and healthcare providers. Companies likely to have products that will compete with our product candidates have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we do, and are better equipped to develop, manufacture, market and distribute products. Many of these companies operate large, well-funded research, development and commercialization programs, have extensive experience in nonclinical testing and clinical studies, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products, and have products that have been approved or are in late-stage development. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations are becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their inventions and are actively seeking to commercialize the technologies they have developed. 39 We are subject to uncertainty relating to healthcare reform measures and reimbursement policies that, if not favorable to our products, could hinder or prevent our products’ commercial success, if any of our product candidates are approved. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: • our ability to set an appropriate price for our products; • our ability to generate revenues or achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • our access to additional capital. Our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish what we believe are appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products. These payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement, particularly for new therapeutic products or if there is a perception that the target indication of the new product is well-served by existing drugs or other treatments. Accordingly, even if coverage and reimbursement are provided, market acceptance of our products would be adversely affected if the amount of coverage and/or reimbursement rates for the use of our products proved to be unprofitable for healthcare providers or less profitable than alternative treatments. There have been federal and state proposals to subject the pricing of healthcare goods and services to government control and to make other changes to the U.S. healthcare system. While we cannot predict the outcome of current or future legislation, we anticipate that Congress and state legislatures will continue to introduce initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of drug products is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. It is uncertain if future legislative proposals, whether domestic or abroad, will be adopted that might affect our products or product candidates or what actions federal, state, or private payors for healthcare treatment and services may take in response to any such healthcare reform proposals or legislation. Any such healthcare reforms could have a material and adverse effect on the marketability of any products for which we ultimately receive FDA or other regulatory agency approval. We face potential product liability exposure and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product or product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. In the future, we anticipate that we will need to obtain additional or increased product liability insurance coverage and it is uncertain that such increased or additional insurance coverage can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our business (in particular, the use of our product candidates in clinical studies and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval) will expose us to product liability risks. Product liability claims might be brought against us by patients, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against any such claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical study participants; 40 • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our products and product candidates. We maintain limited product liability insurance for our clinical studies, but our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. We expect that we would expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval of any of our product candidates, but we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance on commercially acceptable terms or may not be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential losses. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drug products that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK If we are unable to maintain compliance with NYSE Amex continued listing standards, our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE Amex equities market, which would likely cause the liquidity and market price of our common stock to decline. Our common stock currently is listed on the NYSE Amex equities market. The NYSE Amex will consider suspending dealings in, or delisting, securities of an issuer that does not meet its continued listing standards, including specified stockholders’ equity levels. In addition, the NYSE Amex will consider suspending dealings in, or delisting, securities selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share if the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such stock within a reasonable time after being notified that the NYSE Amex deems such action to be appropriate under the circumstances. Previously, we were not in compliance with certain NYSE Amex stockholders’ equity continued listing standards. Specifically, we were not in compliance with (1) Section 1003(a)(ii) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide, or the Company Guide, because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $4,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years, or (2) Section 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide, because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $6,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years. In addition, we were notified, in accordance with Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide, that the NYSE Amex determined it was appropriate for us to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock to address our low selling price per share. In April 2010, we announced that we had resolved the stockholders’ equity continued listing deficiencies and we implemented a 1-for-25 reverse split of our common stock, in part to address the NYSE Amex’s requirement that we address our low stock price. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to maintain compliance with such standards. For example, we may determine to pursue development or other activities or grow our organization or product pipeline or at levels or on timelines that reduces our stockholders’ equity below the level required to maintain compliance with NYSE Amex continued listing standards. In addition, the market price for our common stock historically has been highly volatile, as more fully described below under the risk titled “The market price of our common stock historically has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile,” and recently has traded at under $1.00 per share. The NYSE Amex may again determine that the selling price per share of our common stock is low and require that we effect a reverse stock split of our common stock, which would require stockholder approval that we may be unable to obtain. Our failure to maintain compliance with NYSE Amex continued listing standards could result in the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE Amex. 41 The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE Amex likely would reduce the trading volume and liquidity in our common stock and may lead to decreases in the trading price of our common stock. The delisting of our common stock may also materially impair our stockholders’ ability to buy and sell shares of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could significantly impair our ability to raise capital, which is critical to the execution of our current business strategy. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock in the secondary market. If our common stock were removed from listing with the NYSE Amex, it may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. The market price of our common stock historically has been and likely will continue to be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock historically has been highly volatile, and the market for our common stock has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, based both on our operating performance and for reasons that appear to us unrelated to our operating performance. For instance, on August 10, 2011, the market price for our common stock dropped almost 60% following our announcement of our receipt of the complete response letter for our Exelbine NDA, which stated that the FDA could not approve it in its present form. Conversely, the market price for our common stock increased over 66% in a 30-day period in June and July 2011 and more than doubled over two trading days in late December 2009. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • the level of our financial resources; • announcements of entry into or consummation of a financing or strategic transaction; • changes in the regulatory status of our product candidates, including results of any clinical studies and other research and development programs; • FDA or international regulatory actions and regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events (including clinical study results and regulatory events and actions) by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • developments concerning intellectual property rights generally or those of us or our competitors; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or deviations in our business and the trading price of our common stock from the estimates of securities analysts; • events affecting any future collaborations, commercial agreements and grants; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or pursuant to shelf or resale registration statements that register shares of our common stock that may be sold by us or certain of our current or future stockholders; 42 • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; • commencement of delisting proceedings by the NYSE Amex; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • changes in third-party payor reimbursement policies. As evidenced by the August 10, 2011 decline, the realization of any of the foregoing could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced a substantial decline in market price. Moreover, regulatory entities often undertake investigations of investor transactions in securities that experience volatility following an announcement of a significant event or condition. Any such litigation brought against us or any such investigation involving our investors could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that such sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by, or the perceived possibility of sales by, us or our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. These sales by our existing stockholders might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Currently, we have an effective primary registration statement on Form S-3 under which we may sell and issue more than $55 million of securities. We also have effective resale registration statements on Form S-3 and an effective registration statement on Form S-1 that register a significant number of shares of our common stock and securities convertible into our common stock that may be sold by us or certain of our stockholders, including an effective resale registration statement for up to 16,278,901 shares of our common stock that were issued or may be issued in the future to the selling stockholders named therein in connection with our acquisition of SynthRx. Collectively, these registration statements may increase the likelihood of sales by, or the perception of an increased likelihood of sales by, us or our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. We currently have voting control with respect to approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock and we may obtain voting control over a significant additional amount of our outstanding common stock if we issue the milestone-related shares to the former SynthRx stockholders, and we may determine to cause those shares to be voted in such a manner that does not necessarily coincide with the interests of individual stockholders or particular groups of stockholders. Pursuant to the voting and transfer restriction agreement between us and each of the former principal stockholders of SynthRx, each stockholder party has agreed to vote all shares of our common stock beneficially owned by that party with respect to every action or approval by written consent of our stockholders in such manner as directed by us, except in limited circumstances, and has executed an irrevocable proxy appointing and authorizing us to vote such shares in such manner. If the development of ANX-188 achieves all of the milestones set forth in our merger agreement with SynthRx without reduction, we will issue an additional 13,478,050 shares of our common stock, representing, in the aggregate (and including the shares issued in connection with the closing of our acquisition of SynthRx) an approximately 27% ownership stake in our company (based on shares outstanding as of March 1, 2012 plus shares issued in connection with achievement of the milestones). As a result of such issuances and the voting and transfer restriction agreement, we currently have, and in the future may have even more, significant control over substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of certain mergers and other business combination transactions. Even if less than all potential milestone-related shares are issued, our ability to control a potentially significant block of stockholder votes pursuant to the voting and transfer restriction agreement may enable us to substantially affect the outcome of proposals brought before our stockholders. Although our board of directors acts in a manner it believes is in the best interest of our stockholders as a whole, the interests of our stockholders as a whole may not always coincide with the interests of individual stockholders or particular groups of stockholders. 43 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult, which could depress our stock price. Alternatively, prohibitions on anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may restrict us from acting in the best interests of our stockholders. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our bylaws limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders and establish advance notice requirements for nomination of individuals for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In addition, provisions of certain compensatory contracts with our management, such as equity award agreements, may have an anti-takeover effect by resulting in accelerated vesting of outstanding equity securities held by our executive officers. In particular, in the event of a change in control, the vesting of options we granted since July 2009 to certain key executives will accelerate with respect to fifty percent of the then unvested shares on the day prior to the date of the change in control and, subject to the respective executive’s continuous service, with respect to the remaining fifty percent of the then unvested shares on the one year anniversary of the date of the change in control, and could accelerate in full at the time of the change in control if the acquirer does not assume or substitute for the options. As a result, if an acquirer desired to retain the services of one or both of those executives following an acquisition, it may be required to provide additional incentive to them, which could increase the cost of the acquisition to the acquirer and may deter or adversely affect the terms of the potential acquisition. In connection with a July 2005 private placement, we agreed with the investors in that transaction that we would not implement certain additional measures that would have an anti-takeover effect. As a result, under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are prohibited from dividing our board of directors into classes and adopting or approving any “rights plan,” “poison pill” or other similar plan or device. A classified board of directors could serve to protect our stockholders against unfair treatment in takeover situations, by making it more difficult and time-consuming for a potential acquirer to take control of our board of directors. A company may also adopt a classified board of directors to ensure stability in the board of directors and thereby improve long-term planning, which may benefit stockholders. A “poison pill” or similar plan or device may encourage potential acquirers to discuss their intentions with the board of directors of a company and avoid the time, expense and distraction of a hostile take-over. Any benefit to us and our stockholders from instituting a classified board or adopting or approving a “poison pill” or similar plan or device in these and other circumstances is unavailable. Because we do not expect to pay dividends with respect to our common stock in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, with respect to our common stock, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to various laws and regulations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Due to our intent to retain any future earnings rather than pay cash dividends on our common stock and applicable laws, regulations and contractual obligations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, the success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation and our common stock may not appreciate in value. 44 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We do not have any unresolved comments issued by the SEC staff. 