Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our stock involves a number of risks. Before making a decision to purchase our securities, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this quarterly report. If any of the risks discussed in this quarterly report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. 4 Table of Contents Our continued operations depend on current fashion trends. If our products and design do not continue to be fashionable, our business could be adversely affected. The novelty and the design of our True Religion Brand Jeans apparel is important to our success and competitive position, and the inability to continue to develop and offer such unique products to our customers could harm our business. We cannot be certain that high-fashion denim and related apparel will continue to be fashionable. Should the trend steer away from high-fashion denim and related apparel, sales could decrease and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, there are no assurances that our future designs will be successful, and any unsuccessful designs could adversely affect our business. Our business and the success of our products could be harmed if we are unable to maintain our brand image. Our success to date has been due in large part to the strength of our brand. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, our brand name and brand image may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brand image to be outdated or associate our brand with styles that are no longer popular. In the past, several apparel companies, including ours, have experienced periods of rapid growth in revenues and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our business may be similarly affected in the future. We depend on third parties for significant elements of our sales and distribution efforts. If these third parties do not continue to assist us in our sales and distribution, our revenue could decrease, which would have an adverse impact on our business We limit our marketing efforts to participation at trade shows where we showcase our products. We depend substantially upon third parties for several critical elements of our business including, among other things, sales and distribution activities. There can be no assurance that we or these third parties will be able to establish or maintain adequate sales and distribution capabilities, that we will be able to enter into agreements or relationships with third parties in additional territories on financially acceptable terms or that any third parties with whom we enter into such arrangements will be successful in selling or distributing our products. If they are not, our business could be negatively impacted. Also, if we are unable to maintain our relationships with these sales agents and distributors or if these sales agents and distributors begin selling our competitors products, then our ability to generate revenues through the sale of our products could be negatively impacted. Our business may be negatively impacted as a result of changes in the economy. Our business depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, our primary direct customers. Purchases of high-fashion denim, apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, when consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items, declines. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, maintain sales levels at our existing stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the economy or the occurrence of events that adversely affect the economy in general. Furthermore, in anticipation of continued increases in net sales, we have significantly expanded our infrastructure and workforce to achieve economies of scale. Because these expenses are fixed in the short term, our operating results and margins will be adversely impacted if we do not continue to grow as anticipated. Our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonal fluctuations in demand for high-fashion denim, apparel and accessories delivery date delays and potential fluctuations in our annualized tax rate, which may result in volatility of our stock price. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, sales of our products have historically been somewhat seasonal in nature with the strongest sales generally occurring in the second and third quarters. Delays in scheduling or pickup of purchased products by our domestic customers could negatively impact our net sales and results of operations for any given quarter. Also, our annualized tax rate is based on projections of our domestic and international operating results for the year, which we review and revise as necessary at the end of each quarter, and it is highly sensitive to fluctuations in projected international earnings. Any quarterly fluctuations in our annualized tax rate that may occur could have a material impact on our quarterly operating results. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter and the results for any particular quarter may not be necessarily indicative of 5 Table of Contents results for the full year. Any shortfall in revenues or net income from levels expected by securities analysts and investors could cause a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to sustain our past growth or manage our future growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception, and have increased our revenues from $27.7 million in 2004 to $139.0 million in 2006. We anticipate our rate of growth in the future will depend upon, among other things, the success of our growth strategies, which we cannot assure you will be successful. In addition, we may have more difficulty maintaining our prior rate of growth of revenues and profitability. Our future success will depend upon various factors, including the strength of our brand image, the market success of our current and future products, competitive conditions and our ability to manage increased revenues, if any, or implement our growth strategy. In addition, we anticipate significantly expanding our infrastructure and adding personnel in connection with our anticipated growth, which we expect will cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and which may cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase as a percentage of revenue. Because these expenses are generally fixed, particularly in the short-term, operating results may be adversely impacted if we do not achieve our anticipated growth. Future growth may place a significant strain on our management and operations. If we continue to experience growth in our operations, our operational, administrative, financial and legal procedures and controls may need to be expanded. As a result, we may need to train and manage an increasing number of employees, which could distract our management team from our business. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage our anticipated growth. If we are unable to anticipate or manage our growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. We face intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours, and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. We face intense competition in the apparel industry from other established companies. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the apparel industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the apparel industry. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the style and quality of our products and the strength of our brand name, as well as many factors beyond our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, which would adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We place orders with our manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive all of our customers’ orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We also maintain an inventory of certain products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. Purchases of the merchandise we sell are generally discretionary and are therefore particularly susceptible to economic slowdowns. During periods of economic slowdowns, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of fashion products and high-end home products, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. 6 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if we need to add or replace manufacturers. Although we design and market our products, we outsource manufacturing to third party manufacturers. Outsourcing the manufacturing component of our business is common in the apparel industry, as we compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Because we are a small enterprise and many of the companies with which we compete have greater financial and other resources than we have, they may have an advantage in the competition for production capacity. We currently outsource our production to a limited number of manufacturers. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if we need to replace any of the manufacturers that we currently use, we may have to expand our third party manufacturing capacity. We cannot be assured that this capacity will be available to us, or that if available it will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot produce a sufficient quantity of our products to meet demand or delivery schedules, our customers might reduce demand, reduce the purchase price they are willing to pay for our products or replace our product with the product of a competitor, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Our stock price is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our inception, and is likely to remain volatile in the future. For example, since June 23, 2003, our common stock has closed as low as $0.66 and as high as $24.36 per share. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations or financial results of high-fashion denim companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • any deviation from projected growth rates in revenues; • any loss of a major customer or a major customer order; • additions or departures of key management or design personnel; • any deviations in our net revenue or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • activities of short sellers and risk arbitrageurs; and • future sales of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many high-fashion companies, which often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As long as we continue to depend on a limited customer base and a limited number of products, there is substantial risk that our quarterly results will fluctuate. Our business could suffer from the financial instability of our customers. We sell our product primarily to retail and distribution companies in the United States on open account with 30 to 45 day payment terms. In foreign markets, we try to obtain a letter of credit or wire transfer upon shipment, but these arrangements are not always possible. Financial difficulties with a customer could result in serious losses for our company. 7 Table of Contents The loss of our Chief Executive Officer or other key management personnel would have an adverse impact on our future development and could impair our ability to succeed. Our performance is substantially dependent upon the expertise of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Lubell, and other key management personnel, and our ability to continue to hire and retain personnel. Mr. Lubell spends all of his working time working with our company and our wholly-owned subsidiary. It may be difficult to find sufficiently qualified individuals to replace Mr. Lubell or other key management personnel if we were to lose any one or more of them. The loss of Mr. Lubell or any of our key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, development, financial condition, and operating results. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our directors or senior executive officers. Government regulation and supervision could restrict our business. Any negative changes to international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement or any agreements affecting international trade such as those made by the World Trade Organization which result in a rise in trade quotas, duties, taxes and similar impositions or which has the result of limiting the countries from whom we can purchase our fabric or other component materials, or limiting the countries where we might market and sell our products, could have an adverse effect on our business. Increases in the price of raw materials or their reduced availability could increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, synthetics, wools and blends. The prices we pay for these fabrics are dependent on the market price for raw materials used to produce them, primarily cotton. The price and availability of cotton may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, including crop yields, weather, supply conditions, government regulation, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Any raw material price increases could increase our cost of sales and decrease our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. Moreover, any decrease in the availability of cotton could impair our ability to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. If an independent manufacturer violates labor or other laws, or is accused of violating any such laws, or if their labor practices diverge from those generally accepted as ethical, it could harm our business and brand image. While all manufacturers are contractually required to comply with such labor practices, we cannot control the actions or public perception of such manufacturers, nor can we assure that these manufacturers will conduct their businesses using ethical or legal labor practices. Apparel companies can be held jointly liable for the wrongdoings of the manufacturers of their products. While we do not control their employees’ employment conditions or the manufacturer’s business practices, and the manufacturers act in their own interest, they may act in a manner that results in a negative public perception of us and/or employee allegations or court determinations that we are jointly liable for such improper practices. If our competitors misappropriate our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, it could have a material adverse affect on our business. The loss of or inability to enforce our trademark “True Religion Brand Jeans” and the trademarked “Buddah” logo and other proprietary know-how and trade secrets could adversely affect our business. We depend heavily on trade secrets and the design expertise of Jeffrey Lubell and Zihaad Wells. If any of our competitors’ copies or otherwise gains access to our trade secrets or develops similar products independently, we would not be able to compete as effectively. The measures we take to protect our trade secrets and designs may not be adequate to prevent their unauthorized use. Further, the laws of foreign countries may provide inadequate protection of such intellectual property rights. We may need to bring legal claims to enforce or protect such intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources. In addition, notwithstanding the rights we have secured in our intellectual property, other persons may bring claims against us that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights or claims that our intellectual property right interests are not valid. Any claims against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend or litigate and therefore could have an adverse affect on our business. 8 Table of Contents One principal stockholder is able to control substantially all matters requiring a vote of our stockholders and his interests may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. As of March 26, 2007, Jeffrey Lubell, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 38% of our outstanding common stock. Therefore, Mr. Lubell is effectively able to control matters requiring approval by our stockholders. Matters that require the approval of our stockholders include the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Mr. Lubell also has control over our management and affairs. As a result of such control, certain transactions are effectively not possible without the approval of Mr. Lubell, including, proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other transactions that can give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares of our common stock. We are still exposed to potential risks from recent legislation requiring public companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We, like all other public companies, are incurring additional expenses and, to a lesser extent, diverting management’s time in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management is required under Section 404 to furnish a report regarding its internal controls over financial reporting. We have implemented processes documenting and evaluating our system of internal controls. As of December 31, 2006, management has identified one or more material weaknesses on the effectiveness of our internal controls, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, have an adverse effect on our stock price and/or subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. We do not expect to declare or pay any dividends. We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception. Our success is dependent on our ability to protect our worldwide intellectual property rights, and our inability to enforce these rights could harm our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks, patents, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. We rely on the intellectual property, patent, trademark and copyright laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The use of our intellectual property or similar intellectual property by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. If it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly and we may not prevail. We have obtained some United States and foreign trademark, patents and service mark registrations, and have applied for additional ones, but cannot guarantee that any of our pending applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these or other registrations. A failure to obtain trademark, patents or service mark registrations in the United States and in other countries could limit our ability to protect our trademarks, patents and service marks and impede our marketing efforts in those jurisdictions. The loss of such trademarks, patents and service marks, or the loss of the exclusive use of our trademarks, patents and service marks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, patents and service marks on a worldwide basis and continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks, patents and service marks, as appropriate. We cannot assure that our actions taken to establish and protect our trademarks, patents and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violating their trademark or other proprietary rights. Our products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement upon the intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with their use of our products. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Moreover, should we be found liable for infringement, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms 9 Table of Contents or at all) or to pay damages and cease making or selling certain products. Moreover, we may need to redesign or rename some of our products to avoid future infringement liability. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. We are subject to periodic litigation which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. We are from time to time party to claims and litigation proceedings (see “Legal Proceedings” below). Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and we cannot predict with assurances the outcomes and ultimate financial impacts of them. There can be no guarantees that actions that have been or may be brought against us in the future will be resolved in our favor or that the insurance we carry will be available or paid to cover any litigation exposure. Any losses resulting from settlements or adverse judgments arising out of these claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Our international operations involve inherent risk which could result in harm to our business. As a result of our international business, we are exposed to increased risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. In addition to increased difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, these risks include (i) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, (ii) unexpected government action or changes in legal or regulatory requirements, (iii) social, economic or political instability, (iv) the effects of any anti-American sentiments on the True Religion brand or sales of our products, (v) increased difficulty in controlling and monitoring foreign operations from the United States, including increased difficulty in identifying and recruiting qualified personnel for our foreign operations, and (vi) increased exposure to interruptions in air carrier or shipping services which could significantly adversely affect our Company’s ability to obtain timely delivery of products from international suppliers or to timely deliver our products to international customers. Although we believe the benefits of conducting business internationally outweigh these risks, any significant adverse change in circumstances or conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 