Risk Factors You should consider the following risks as well as the other information set forth in this annual report when evaluating an investment in our company. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed if any of these risks materialize. Risks Related to Our Business Regulatory developments could affect our services, including placing restrictions on the rates we charge for our services, which could adversely impact our business. Our main activities, wireline and wireless phone services, as well as the main activities of our competitors, are subject to regulation and inspection by Anatel. The regulations enacted by Anatel and applicable to our activities include provisions regarding charges, fees, universalization, quality of services, consumer’s rights, net expansion, licenses, competition, changes in our corporate ownership (including participation by foreign investors), interconnection and other operational issues related to the functioning of our telecommunications net. Any changes in the laws, regulations or governmental policies applicable to the telecommunications sector or in the interpretation of such laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although there are some indications expressed by Anatel and by the Ministry of Communications at the end of each year, it is not possible to predict which policies for the telecommunications sector will be adopted by the government in the future or the consequences of such policies to our business and the business of our competitors. 7 Table of Contents Our telephony operations in Brazil are governed by concession contracts granted by Anatel. Other services are governed by authorizations also granted by Anatel. Our current concession contracts contain sections regarding the PGMQ and the PGMU including (i) new targets for the universalization of services; (ii) new requirements for local call charges, substituting pulses for minutes in the calculation of charges; (iii) new parameters for the adjustment of rates and interconnection rates; and (iv) portability of fixed line and mobile telephone numbers. These changes, some of them yet to be implemented, may affect the financial balance of our concession contracts and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our concession contracts could be terminated under several scenarios, each of which would adversely affect our financial condition. According to the General Telecommunications Law and our concession contracts, our concessions are revocable, among other reasons, if Anatel fails to renew them upon their expiration; by government fiat in an extraordinary situation in which the public interest is in jeopardy; or upon the occurrence of a split-up, spin-off, amalgamation, merger, capital reduction or transfer of our corporate power without Anatel’s authorization. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry—Obligations of Telecommunications Companies—Revocation of a Concession.” The benefits we obtain from the concession contracts are a primary component of our financial performance. The loss of any or all of those contracts would materially affect our ability to continue operations. A proposed bill of law terminating monthly subscription fees may adversely affect our business and financial condition. On May 12, 2004, the Consumer Defense Committee of the House of Representatives approved a bill of law proposing the termination of the monthly subscription fees charged for fixed-line services by Brazilian telephone concessionaires, including us. As the bill was not approved by the full House of Representatives until the end of 2006, the effectiveness of the bill was delayed until January 31, 2007. Furthermore, the bill had not yet been declared effective on March 21, 2007, and therefore the bill must again be considered before the House of Representatives before it may be effective. The bill is again subject to the approval of the House of Representatives, the Senate and the President in order to become effective. In 2007 our revenue of monthly subscription fees charged for fixed-line services was R$3,541.4 billion. Should this bill be approved, it may have an impact on our current rate structure and, as a result, our operations and competitive position could be adversely affected. The procedure to establish the rules for the portability of fixed-line and mobile telephone numbers was initiated in 2006 and, when finally implemented, could result in a decrease in the number of our fixed-line customers. At the end of 2006, the procedure to establish rules for the portability of fixed-line and mobile telephone numbers was initiated. Portability allows customers to change from one telecommunications services concessionary/authorized company to another without having to change their fixed-line or mobile telephone numbers. Complete implementation of portability is expected to occur in 2009. According to Anatel’s regulations, it will be possible for customers to change their telecommunications services provider in the same area code as well as their addresses in the same area code without changing their telephone numbers. Anatel’s objective in introducing the telephone number portability is to increase competition among operators. The implementation of portability could adversely affect our business in two important ways: (i) we expect that portability rules that permit customers to change service providers without losing their telephone number will have the effect of increasing the number of customers that we lose to other telecommunications service providers; and (ii) we expect that the cost of new technologies and suppliers necessary for the implementation and maintenance of portability will be paid for by the operators. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to financial covenants and other contractual provisions under our existing indebtedness. Failure to comply with these provisions could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The agreements that govern our debt contain a number of restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them could adversely impact our business. In particular, the terms of these agreements restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to incur additional debt, grant liens, pledge assets, sell or dispose of assets and make certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations. Furthermore, a number of our debt agreements include financial covenants that require us to maintain certain specified financial ratios. As a general rule, the occurrence of an event of default under one of our debt agreements may trigger defaults under our other debt agreements. Compliance with these covenants in future periods will depend upon our financial and operating performance, which may be affected by adverse business, market and economic conditions. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, or to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt obligations may be accelerated and the terms of our debt agreements may be otherwise amended adversely. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. Certain beneficial owners directly or indirectly control a large percentage of our voting shares, and their interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders, including minority shareholders. We are directly controlled by Brasil Telecom Participações S.A., our parent corporation, which is in turn controlled by Solpart, whose stockholders are Timepart and Techold. As the controlling shareholder of our Parent, Solpart has the power to modify our business plan, modify our dividend plan and sell our material assets. Our controlling shareholders may exercise this control in a manner that differs from the best interest of our minority shareholders. Disputes among our controlling shareholders and entities that manage our controlling shareholders have had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our management and operations. As of the date of this annual report control of Solpart, as well as certain actions taken by Solpart’s shareholders and their affiliates, are the subject of a number of judicial and arbitration proceedings. On March 9, 2005, International Equity Investments, Inc., the sole shareholder of CVC/Opportunity Equity Partners LP (since renamed CVC LP), which controls a majority of the voting interests in Solpart, and therefore indirectly owns a majority of the voting shares of our Parent and our company, publicly announced the ouster of CVC Ltd. (currently named Opportunity Ltd.) from the management of CVC LP. Opportunity Ltd. was replaced by a new company incorporated abroad, CVC International Brazil, a replacement that was approved by Anatel on April 12, 2005. In late 2005, our shareholders replaced our board of directors (except for Mr. Antonio Cardoso dos Santos, who was elected by the holders of our Preferred Stock and remains a director), our management and our fiscal council. Since November 2005, the current management of our Parent and our current management have performed and continue to perform internal investigations of the businesses and operations conducted by the former management appointed by Opportunity Ltd., the former managing partner of two of our indirect controlling shareholders (CVC LP and Investitores Institucionais FIA). In the course of such investigations, our current managers identified management acts indicating abuse of controlling power, breach of fiduciary duties, and conflict of interest, as well as various violations of Brazilian law and our bylaws. In accordance with a notice to shareholders released on December 12, 2005, we filed a formal complaint with the CVM against Opportunity Ltd. and other individuals and companies, both domestic and foreign, linked to our former management, who have been involved with, or participated in any way, or benefited from the actions which are the object of the formal complaint. On March 21, 2006, a second formal complaint, as an amendment to the first complaint, was submitted to CVM, in light of additional management actions identified. In 2006, eight lawsuits of civil responsibility were filed against Opportunity Ltd. and our previous managers. We intend to pursue all appropriate legal measures to recover potential losses and damages suffered, consistent with our best interests and fiduciary obligations. On April 28, 2006, at Ordinary and Extraordinary Meetings of Shareholders of us and our Parent, the shareholders of each company approved the filing of damages lawsuits against prior management. 9 Table of Contents The disputes among the shareholders of Solpart, including the dispute over the ownership structure of Solpart, and management of entities which hold a stake in our Parent and Zain may result in changes to our board and/or senior management. While we cannot predict the cumulative effect of this ongoing litigation on our business and results of operations, extensive litigation regarding ownership of our company creates uncertainty with respect to the identity of our current and future management, which may impair our ability to carry out our business plan. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Disputes with and among entities that hold stakes in our company” for additional information. Problems with billing, invoicing and collection services may adversely affect our earnings. By Resolution No. 343, dated as of July 17, 2003, Anatel required carriers to render invoicing and collection services to other carriers with which they had entered into traffic agreements. We have entered into co-billing agreements with several carriers to include on our telephone bills the long distance services rendered by such carriers, as well as the long distance services rendered by other collective interest carriers. Any problems with the execution of invoicing and collection services by other carriers may adversely affect our levels of bad debt. Consumer litigation related to the legality of our basic monthly subscription fees may have an adverse effect on our business. We are a defendant in approximately 85,604 lawsuits, both individual and collective, that contest our right to charge users of our fixed-line service a basic monthly subscription fee for continuous access to the service. As a result of provisional remedies or interim injunctive relief, we have suspended this basic monthly subscription fee with respect to the plaintiffs in approximately 15,716 of these lawsuits, pending a final decision. The remaining lawsuits have not received preliminary adjudication. On October 25, 2007, the Superior Court of Justice (“Superior Tribunal de Justiça”), on a special appeal by Brasil Telecom, considered and upheld the legality of the collection of the basic monthly subscription fee. This decision, along with similar successful appeals with respect to 80 lawsuits, established a favorable precedent in these matters. However, the Supreme Court (“Supremo Tribunal Federal”) has not yet decided upon the legality of charging the basic monthly subscription fee, and as a result, we cannot predict a favorable outcome in all of these lawsuits. There is also a jurisdictional conflict as we have sought to include Anatel in order to transfer the claims to federal courts. This uncertainty, coupled with the expense associated with the continued legal defense of these lawsuits, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Risks Related to the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry We face increasing competition in all segments of the Brazilian telecommunications industry, and the telecommunications industry may not continue to grow or may grow at a slower rate than in the past. This may have a material adverse effect on our market share, margins, results of operations and financial condition. The telecommunications industry in Brazil is becoming increasingly competitive. Our public-regime fixed-line concessions are not exclusive, and Anatel could grant additional private-regime authorizations in our region. To date, a number of companies have been granted permission by Anatel to provide local and/or long distance telecommunications services throughout our region. Our fixed-line services are also subject to competition from mobile service providers. We also face competition from mobile service providers in the low-end of the market through the offer of prepaid plans by mobile providers. We now also have to compete in our region against competitors from outside of our region that offer fixed-line, mobile, data, local and/or long distance telecommunications services throughout Brazil. In addition, the Brazilian telecommunications industry is consolidating, which results in larger competitors with greater resources. Competition for mobile telecommunications customers may require us to increase our costs and marketing expenses or provide services at lower rates than those we currently expect to charge for such services. Furthermore, Anatel may also grant new authorizations to explore mobile telecommunication services that may increase the number of competitors in our region. With respect to our data transmission services, increased competition may require us to reduce the rates we charge for data transmission services. 10 Table of Contents Cable television services companies are beginning to offer telecommunication services, and increasingly there are other alternatives for consumers to obtain their telecommunication services, such as satellite transmission and voice over internet protocol, or VOIP. Another example of intensifying competition is the migration by our customers from fixed-line telephones to mobile telephones. These changes may lead to a reduction in earnings, which may adversely affect our company. In addition, we may also face increased competition due to unbundling regulations. Anatel has established rules for “line sharing” and full unbundling of local telephone networks that require us to make our networks available to other telecommunications service providers and which limit the rate we can charge for line sharing and full unbundling per line for telecommunications service. To date, operational rules for the implementation of unbundling have not yet been agreed to among Brazilian telecommunications operators. These regulations are recent, and as of December 31, 2007, no unbundled lines had been used by competitors in our region. Our ability to continue to compete successfully will depend on the success of our marketing, financial and other resources (including our access to capital) in comparison to our competitors and on our ability to anticipate and respond to competitive factors affecting the industry, including the introduction of new services, changes in consumer preferences, changes in regulation, demographic trends, economic conditions, discount pricing strategies by competitors as well as further industry consolidation. There can be no assurance that increased competition in all segments of the Brazilian telecommunications industry will not have a material adverse effect on our market share, margins, results of operations and financial condition. See Item 4. “Information on the Company—Our Services” and “—Regulation of the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry—Obligations of Telecommunications Companies—Unbundling of local networks.” We depend on other telecommunications services providers. We may not be able to enter into favorable interconnection and unbundling agreements. In order to receive or send calls from or to customers of other fixed-line and mobile Brazilian networks and international networks, we must interconnect with the networks of our competitors. The Brazilian General Telecommunications Law requires all telecommunications service providers to interconnect their networks with those of other providers on a non-discriminatory basis. The rates to be paid by one fixed-line network operator to the other for the use of each other’s fixed-line network are currently regulated by Anatel. The current interconnection model is asymmetric, with higher rates in effect for mobile interconnection than fixed-line interconnection. As a result, mobile operators generally retain more than 80% of net revenues from fixed-to-mobile calls, while fixed-line carriers, like us, have very low and, in some cases, negative margins. In light of this imbalance, Anatel established that as of July 2004, interconnection rates for mobile networks (the VU-M) would be freely negotiated. Telecomunications service providers agreed to establish a provisional readjustment and submit the final decision to Anatel’s arbitration under the telecommunication sector legislation. The arbitration decision was rendered in September 2007, which settled the readjustment of the VU-M rate to the same percentage established by the service providers in the provisional readjustment. Since the decision did not embody the proposal of the fixed-line carriers (including us) for a new VU-M rate, nor the proposal of the mobile operators, we applied to the council of directors (Conselho Diretor) of Anatel for a review of the decision in accordance with the telecommunication legislation. This process is ongoing and a final decision has not been issued. Simultaneously with this arbitration, GVT, a fixed-line service provider, obtained in October 2007 a provisional decision from a Brazilian court against Anatel and mobile companies that granted to GVT the right to pay the VU-M at a rate approximately 30% cheaper when compared to the rate charged in the market. This decision is an important precedent since it represents a reduction in the VU-M without taking into account the Anatel arbitration process. However, the decision is not final and may be reviewed by superior courts. 11 Table of Contents The failure to implement the technology necessary to assess and combat fraud on our network could adversely affect our results of operations. The fraudulent use of telecommunications networks imposes a significant cost upon service providers, who must bear the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. We suffer loss of revenue as a result of fraudulent use, and also cash costs due to our obligation to reimburse carriers for the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. In 2001, we created a fraud management department to provide specialized customer service to customers affected by fraud. During fiscal year 2002, several automated procedures were created and placed in various parts of our operations to detect and control possible abnormalities that could represent fraudulent activities. These controls have a preventive function, and work both pro-actively and, should a fraud occur, reactively. In 2003, we implemented controls to capture fraud events automatically, such as a non-billing mechanism for fraud-blocked terminals, a cut-off limit system for service usage, and a webpage to gather any fraud claims from the community. At the end of 2003, we created the IT Revenue Assurance Group, which develops systems to assist the revenue assurance department in combating fraud. During 2004, we installed a fraud management system to detect and prevent fraud. In addition to a system to monitor customers’ usage based on their traffic behavior, we implemented a system to keep subscribers under close surveillance. The fraud system is based on a signaling network and has an interface to the call-blocking platform in order to limit revenue loss once fraudulent use has been identified. In 2006, certain fixed-line and mobile telephone service providers created a group to work together to control and reduce fraud cases. There can be no assurance, however, that all operators with which our network is interconnected have appropriate anti-fraud treatment in their networks. We cannot guarantee that these fraud control measures will continue to be accurate and effective to reach the desired level of fraud control. We continue to deploy and implement the technology necessary to assess the accuracy and effectiveness of our fraud combative procedures. Should we not be able to correctly quantify and combat fraud on our network, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Developments in the global telecommunications industry and technology are difficult to predict, and a failure by us to respond to such developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. All companies in the global telecommunications industry must adapt to rapid and significant changes in technology that are often difficult to anticipate. While we have been upgrading our network with technologically advanced fiber optic cable with a microwave overlay, it is possible that our network will be challenged by competition from improved or new technologies in the future. Technological changes may adversely affect our competitive position, require substantial new capital expenditures and/or require write-offs of obsolete technology. If we fail to implement technological advances, we may be unable to continue to compete in the global telecommunications industry. The mobile telephone sector, in particular, requires considerable technological developments, constant capacity, quality and digital technology data transmission speed improvements, shorter development periods of new cycles and changes due to users’ needs and preferences. New technologies, superior to the ones used by BrT GSM may be developed. Furthermore, in January 2008, Anatel granted to BrT GSM the license to the 3G (Third Generation) mobile operations, which will allow us to adopt technological platforms for more advanced mobile services than those allowed by our current mobile platform. It cannot be assured, however, that we will be successful in implementing these advanced mobile services. The failure to accomplish Anatel’s targets may result in the imposition of sanctions and penalties on our company. We are required to accomplish targets established by the Federal Government and Anatel. Due to the public nature of the services we render, according to the terms of our concession contract and of applicable regulation, we must cover a specific geographic area and comply with quality targets on the execution of the services that we render. The PGMU and the PGMQ also provide for targets that we must achieve. Potential consequences of our failure to comply with such targets include the imposition of fines and/or other penalties and the termination of our concession contract, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Operations in Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and the market price of the Preferred Shares underlying our ADSs. Substantially all of our operations and customers are located in Brazil, except for minor services provided overseas. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are substantially dependent on Brazil’s economy, which historically has been characterized by frequent and occasionally drastic intervention by the Brazilian government and volatile economic cycles. In the past, the Brazilian government often changed monetary, fiscal, taxation and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. We have no control over and cannot predict what measures or policies the Brazilian government may take in response to the current Brazilian economic situation or how Brazilian governmental intervention and government policies will affect the Brazilian economy and, both directly and indirectly, our operations and revenues. Our operations, financial condition and the market price of our Preferred Shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by changes in policy involving exchange controls, tax and other matters, as well as factors such as: fluctuations in exchange rates; base interest rate fluctuations; fiscal and taxation legislation changes; inflation; and other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments within and outside Brazil that affect the country. While the current federal government’s policies and final legal rulings to date have not been adverse to the telecommunications industry, uncertainty over the future economic policies of the Brazilian government may contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian international securities markets, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our revenues and the market price of the Preferred Shares and ADSs may be reduced. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation, with annual rates of inflation reaching as high as 2,489% in 1993 (according to the Brazilian National Consumer Price Index). Inflation and governmental measures to combat inflation have both in the past had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. In 1994 the Brazilian Government introduced the Real Plan with the objective of reducing inflation and building a base to sustainable economic growth. Since the introduction of Real Plan, inflation has remained at stable levels, substantially below prior periods. However recent international events like military conflicts and the falling value of the US dollar, have caused and may continue to cause destabilization in international markets. These events may affect the Brazilian economy in the form of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the Real Plan, interest rate increases, oil price increases, and, consequently, increases in the rate of inflation. In 2004, the inflation rate measured by the IPCA was 7.6%, above the established initial target of 5.5%, but within the 2.5 percentage points of tolerance above and below the target. In 2005, the inflation rate was 5.7%, above the established target of 4.5%, but within the 2.5 percentage points of tolerance above and below the target. In 2006, the inflation rate was 3.14%, below the established initial target of 4.5%, and within the 2.5 percentage points of tolerance above and below the target. For 2007 and 2008, the established targets are 3.9% and 4.0%, respectively, with 2.5 percentage points of tolerance. The measured inflation by IPCA in 2007 was 4.5% and through January 31, 2008 the cumulative inflation was 0.5% . 13 Table of Contents Actions taken to combat inflation and public speculation about possible future actions have also contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our costs may increase, and our gross profit may be affected to the extent that our rate increases and our net operating revenues do not keep up with the rate of inflation. Additionally, our service debt and the cost of new financial funding may increase. We cannot predict the effect that inflation would have on our financial condition, our capacity, our cash generation, or our operational results. Devaluation of the real may lead to substantial losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies and a reduction in our revenues. During the last four decades, the Brazilian Central Bank has periodically devalued the Brazilian currency. A significant amount of our financial assets and liabilities are denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, primarily dollars. As of December 31, 2007, R$731.6 million or 16.7% of our financial indebtedness was exposed to foreign currency risk. When the Brazilian currency is devalued, we incur losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, such as our dollar-denominated long-term debt and foreign currency loans, and experience gains on our monetary assets denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, as the liabilities and assets are translated into reais. If devaluation occurs when the value of such liabilities significantly exceeds the value of such assets, including any financial instruments entered into to protect us from exchange rate variations, we could incur significant losses, even if their value has not chan ged in their original currency. This could adversely affect our ability to meet certain of our payment obligations. A failure to meet certain of our payment obligations could trigger a default in certain financial covenants in our loan and credit facilities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to delays and delinquency on our accounts receivable. Our business is affected by our customers’ ability to pay their bills. If the Brazilian economy worsens because of, among other factors: a reduction in the level of economic activity; increased inflation; the devaluation of the real; or an increase in domestic interest rates; a greater portion of our customers may not be able to pay their bills, which would increase our bad debts and provisions for doubtful accounts. Strict regulation from Anatel prevents us from implementing certain policies that could have the effect of reducing delinquency, such as service restrictions or limitations on the types of services provided based on a subscriber’s credit record. Losses from accounts receivable reached R$348.0 million in 2007, R$384.3 million in 2006, and R$449.3 million in 2005, decreasing in percentage of gross revenues terms, from 3.1% in 2005 to 2.5% in 2006 and 2.2% in 2007. However, if economic conditions worsen in Brazil or if we are unable to implement policies to limit subscriber delinquencies or otherwise select our customers, persistent subscriber delinquencies and bad debt can adversely affect our financial condition. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Provision for Doubtful Accounts.” Any increase in taxes levied on the telecommunications sector in connection with tax reforms that might occur in the future could affect our financial condition. Increases in Brazil’s already high level of taxation could adversely affect our profitability. Increases in taxes for the telecommunications sector usually result in higher tariffs for our customers. High tariff levels generally result in lower levels of usage of our services and, therefore, lower net sales. Lower net sales result in lower margins because a significant portion of our costs are fixed and thus do not vary substantially based on the level of usage of our network or our services. Although mobile and fixed services are equally taxed, there can be no assurance that the Brazilian government will not increase current tax levels, at state and/or federal levels, and that this will not adversely impact our business. 14 Table of Contents There are certain measures that were originally contained in a December 2003 tax reform bill that have yet to be adopted by the Federal Senate, relating to, in part: (i) harmonization of ICMS tax rules, which would be governed by a single federal legislation applicable to all states; (ii) equalization of ICMS rates; and (iii) limitations on granting tax incentives. Although these measures may be gradually adopted in 2008, until these measures are ultimately approved, we cannot determine the effect that they may have on our results of operations. Additionally, the Federal Senate has discussed the merger of the ICMS and IPI into a single federal tax assessed upon the commercialization of goods and the rendering of interstate and intermunicipal transportation and communication services. We cannot guarantee that, if the merger of the ICMS and IPI is accomplished, certain tax incentives granted to us in the past will continue to be granted, and cannot determine the effect that a cessation of such tax incentives may have on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 10. Additional Information — Taxation.” Proposed changes in Brazilian labor law may affect our labor relations. In April 2003, the House of Representatives reopened discussions regarding changes in the Brazilian Labor Law. A further revision of union relations in Brazil is also under discussion in the House of Representatives. Although the progress of these proposed modifications has subsequently slowed as political forces have shown some resistance, we cannot predict the effect of any such modifications on our labor relations, which could have a negative effect on our business. It may be difficult to effect service of process upon, or to enforce foreign judgments upon, us, our directors and our officers. We are organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets, and most or all of the assets of our directors and officers, are located in Brazil. As a result, it may be difficult for an ADS holder to effect service of process within the United States or other jurisdictions outside of Brazil upon us or such persons. In addition, because substantially all of our assets and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors or officers may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the applicability and enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act through lawsuits filed before Brazilian courts. Risks Related to Our Preferred Shares and ADSs Our ADS holders may not have the same rights with respect to voting, dividends, distributions, and preemptive rights, among others, as holders of our Preferred Shares. Our ADS holders may not have the same voting rights as holders of our Preferred Shares. Under our Bylaws and Brazilian Corporate Law, in the limited circumstances where holders of our Preferred Shares are able to vote, an ADS holder will be able to exercise voting rights with respect to the Preferred Shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement with the Depositary relating to the ADSs. There are practical limitations upon the ability of holders of our ADSs to exercise voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with such holders. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders” and “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Voting Rights.” An ADS holder that is a resident of the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights or certain other rights with respect to our Preferred Shares. A holder of our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the ADSs unless a registration statement is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not required to file a registration statement relating to preemptive rights with respect to our Preferred Shares, and there can be no assurance that we will file any such registration statement. If a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, Citibank, N.A., as Depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and our ADS holders will be entitled to receive their share of the proceeds of the sale. However, the preemptive rights will expire if the Depositary cannot sell them, and therefore we cannot guarantee that our ADS holders will be able to either exercise their preemptive rights or receive the proceeds from their sale. For a more complete description of preemptive rights with respect to our Preferred Shares, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 15 Table of Contents Pursuant to our deposit agreement with the Depositary, any payments of cash dividends and distributions that we may make will be made in Brazilian currency to the custodian for the Preferred Shares underlying our ADSs, on behalf of the Depositary. The Depositary will then convert such proceeds into US dollars and cause such US dollars to be delivered to the Depositary for distribution to our ADS holders. Holders of ADSs could be adversely affected by devaluations of the Brazilian currency that may occur due to delays in, or a refusal to grant, any required government approval for conversions of Brazilian currency payments and remittances abroad in connection with the Preferred Shares underlying our ADSs. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Dividends.” We may agree with the Depositary to modify the deposit agreement at any time without the consent of the holders of our ADSs. We will give holders of our ADSs 30 days’ prior notice of any modifications that would materially prejudice any of their rights under the deposit agreement. After receipt of such notice, our ADS holders will be bound by the modifications to the deposit agreement if such holders continue to hold ADSs after the modifications to the deposit agreement become effective. Holders of ADSs may have fewer and less well-defined shareholders’ rights than shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Bylaws and Brazilian Corporate Law, which may differ from the legal provisions that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, rules and policies against self-dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may not be as detailed, well-established and enforced in Brazil as in the United States, which may potentially disadvantage the holders of our Preferred Shares and/or ADSs. For example, when compared to Delaware corporate law, Brazilian Corporate Law and practice has less detailed and well-established rules, and fewer judicial precedents relating to the review of management decisions involving duty of care and duty of loyalty standards in the context of corporate restructurings, transactions with related parties and sale-of-business transactions. In addition, shareholders in Brazilian companies must hold at least 5.0% of the outstanding share capital of a corporation in order to have standing to bring shareholders’ derivative suits. Furthermore, shareholders in Brazilian companies ordinarily do not have standing to bring class action suits. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may substantially limit an ADS holder’s ability to sell the Preferred Shares underlying the ADSs at the price and time desired. Brazilian investments, such as investments in our securities, are subject to economic and political risks that may affect the ability of investors to receive payment, in whole or in part, in respect of their investments, including, among others: changes in the regulatory, tax, economic and political environment; and restrictions on foreign investment and on repatriation of capital invested. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major U.S. and European securities markets, and are not as highly regulated or supervised as those markets. As a consequence, the ability of our ADS holders to sell the Preferred Shares underlying the ADSs may be substantially limited. Our ADSs are traded in small volumes, limiting your ability to sell your ADSs that represent Preferred Shares at a desirable price, if at all. The trading volume of our ADSs has traditionally been very low. Even if the trading volume of our ADSs increases, we can give no assurance that it will be maintained or will result in a desirable stock price. As a result of this low trading volume, it may be difficult to identify buyers to whom you can sell your ADSs and you may be unable to sell your ADSs at an established market price, at a price that is favorable to you, or at all. A low volume market also limits your ability to sell large blocks of our ADSs at a desirable or stable price at any one time. You should be prepared to own our ADSs indefinitely. 16 Table of Contents Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market could harm the market price of our ADSs. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the availability of our ADSs for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our ADSs. We, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, whether under any registration statement or otherwise, would not cause the price of our ADSs to decline considerably or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our ADSs. Developments in other countries may affect the Brazilian economy and the market price of our Preferred Shares and our ADSs. The securities of Brazilian issuers have been influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries, especially other emerging market countries. Since the end of 1997, and in particular during 2001 and 2002, the international financial markets have experienced significant volatility as a result of economic problems in various emerging market countries. Investors subsequently have had a heightened risk perception for investments in such markets. As a result, in some periods, Brazil has experienced a significant outflow of dollars and Brazilian companies have faced higher costs for raising funds, both domestically and abroad and have been impeded from accessing international capital markets. We cannot assure investors that international capital markets will remain open to Brazilian companies, including our company, or that prevailing interest rates in these markets will be advantageous to us or that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. As a consequence, the market value of our securities may be adversely affected by these or other events outside of Brazil. See “Item 9. The Offer and Listing—Offer and Listing Details.” There can be no assurances that future events elsewhere, especially in emerging market countries, will not have an adverse effect on the market value of our Preferred Shares and our ADSs. Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an impact on the taxes applicable to the disposition of the ADSs. According to Law 10,833, enacted on December 29, 2003, capital gains earned by a non-Brazilian resident upon the sale of assets located in Brazil to a Brazilian resident or to another non-Brazilian resident are subject to Brazilian withholding tax. If the sale of assets in Brazil is interpreted to include a sale of our ADSs or Preferred Shares, this provision could result in the imposition of income tax on the gains arising from their disposition by a non-resident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. Considering the general and unclear scope of Law 10,833 and the absence of judicial guidance in respect thereof, we cannot predict the exact scope of Law 10,833 or the effect that Law 10,833 will have on holders of our ADSs or Preferred Shares. 