Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Future Results, Forward-Looking Information And Certain Important Factors In this report we make, and from time to time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. -12- In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: Risks Related To Our Business Our NPCC products have limited application. We may not be able to increase the market for our NPCC products. Presently, our existing NPCC products are used as additives for tires, polyvinyl chloride (“PVC”) building materials and water based paints only. Our products, therefore, depend heavily on a limited number of industries. Our growth potential may be limited if we cannot expand the market for our NPCC products. Although we have increased our research and development to expand the range of application of our NPCC products, there is no assurance that we will succeed in our effort. Our revenues from chemical products depend heavily on government policies. If the government changes its policies, our revenues and profit from our chemical products could decrease significantly. To boost the income of millions of Chinese farmers and enhance China’s national security, the Chinese government has instituted policies that encourage farmers in China to increase their production of grains by limiting the price of ammonium fertilizers while at the same time providing the fertilizer industry some relief, including capping the price of raw materials, providing for preferential pricing for electricity and exempting value added tax. Due to the policies, our chemical business is able to realize a profitable margin. However, the Chinese government changes its policies from time to time. If the Chinese government changes the policies currently in place that compensate our loss due to the price control, our revenues and profit from our chemical business could suffer. Our chemical manufacturing business is highly risky and hazardous. We may face environmental and safety problems. Our chemical manufacturing process produces exhaust gas and waste water which may pollute the environment. If an accident occurs in our chemical plant, toxic gas and other pollutants could leak and cause serious pollution problems. Moreover, most of our chemical products are flammable, explosive, and dangerous and pose a threat to the health and safety of our employees and residents around our facility, and if any accident occurs during manufacturing or in transportation, there could be dire consequences. The cost of our raw materials fluctuates significantly, which may adversely impact our profit margin and financial position. Both our NPCC and chemical businesses use coal as raw material. In the last two years, coal prices have fluctuated substantially. Although the price for coal dropped last year, it may increase in the future due to the rapid development of the Chinese economy and the resulting huge demand for energy. If the price for coal increases again, our profit margin could decrease considerably. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure impeding our ability to meet any increased demand for our NPCC products and possibly hurting our operating results. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for existing NPCC products. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · the continued acceptance of our NPCC products by the tire industry; · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; · rapid technological change; and · the highly competitive nature of the fine calcium carbonate industry. If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our NPCC products, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. Meeting any such increased demands will require us to expand our manufacturing facilities, to increase our ability to -13- purchases of raw materials, to increase the size of our work force, to expand our quality control capabilities and to increase the scale upon which we produce products. Such demands would require more capital and working capital than we currently have available. Our business depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property effectively. If any of our patents is not protected or any of our trade secrets is divulged, we may lose our competitive edge. The success of our business depends in substantial measure on the legal protection of the patents which we are licensed to use or we may co-own as a result of our joint development program with Tsinghua University in China and other proprietary rights in technology we hold. We hold licensed patents in China and have a patent application pending in China regarding technologies important to our business. Monitoring infringement of intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property in China where the laws may be difficult to enforce to protect our proprietary rights as compared to the laws of the United States. The validity and breadth of claims in patents and trade secrets involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, the extent of their enforceability and protection is highly uncertain. Issued patents or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent applications or trade secrets may not exclude competitors or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents that are licensed to us or that may be issued to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our competitors have not developed, or will not develop similar products, will not duplicate our products, or will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by us. We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to products and manufacturing processes. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements. If these contractual measures fail to protect our proprietary rights, any advantage those proprietary rights provide to us would be negated. Our NPCC products are differently formulated for different applications. The formulas are maintained as trade secrets and are revealed only to a small number of technical and management personnel. The trade secrets provide us a competitive edge in the tire industry and no other NPCC manufacturers have successfully entered the tire industry. If any of the trade secrets are divulged, we could lose our competitive edge in the tire industry and others. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers. Our business will be harmed if our customers reduce their orders from us. Our NPCC products are sold to only a small number of major customers mainly located in Shandong Province and northern China with large orders per year. Our major chemical product liquid ammonia is sold only to a small number of major customers with large orders located within a short distance of our facilities due to the fact that shipping any product long-distance will make it non-competitive in price. Although no customer individually accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 in our aggregate business, our four largest customers in the tire and PVC segments accounted for 42.5% and 59.48%, respectively, of our revenues from these segments in fiscal 2006. Dependence on a few customers could make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single dominant customer ceases purchasing. If we lose any customers and are unable to replace them with other customers that purchase a similar amount of our products, our revenues and net income would decline considerably. Some of our chemical products experience a glut of supply. Our chemical business may suffer if the oversupply lasts for an extended period. Due to an overcapacity of production facilities and increase in foreign imports, the price for coal based chemicals, especially methanol and melamine, has decreased significantly in the last two years. Due to the low cost of our production process, this price decrease has not had a significant impact on our results. However if the oversupply lasts for an extended period, our chemical business may suffer. -14- Our NPCC business depends significantly on the tire industry. If the composition of tires changes and we fail to develop formulas that are applicable for the new composition, our NPCC business could be harmed. Currently, our NPCC business derives a significant amount of revenues from sales to tire manufacturers. Due to our modification technology, our modified NPCC products can be used in tire production to obtain desired properties since the current tire composition allows for calcium carbonate as an additive. If the composition of tires changes in the future, our modification technology may not be compatible with the change. As a result, our NPCC business could suffer. We extend relatively long payment terms for accounts receivable. If any of our customers fails to pay us, our revenues may be affected as a result. As is customary in China, we extend relatively long payment terms to our customers ranging from 45 to 90 days. As a result of the size of many of our orders, these extended terms adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to fund our operations from our operating cash flow. The failure of our customers to pay us timely would negatively affect our working capital, which could in turn adversely affect our cash flow. Our customers often place large orders for products, requiring fast delivery, which impacts our working capital. If our customers do not incorporate our products into their products and sell them in a timely fashion, for example, due to excess inventories, sales slowdowns or other issues, they may not pay us in a timely fashion, even on our extended terms. This failure to pay timely may defer or delay further product orders from us, which may adversely affect our cash flows, sales or income in subsequent periods. We have difficulties attracting highly-trained personnel. Our business may be harmed as a result. Our business is located in a small city where there are few institutions of higher learning. Our business, however, requires well-trained technical and engineering personnel. Experienced personnel typically tend to be concentrated in major metropolitan areas and may be unwilling to relocate to a small city. If we are not able to recruit the necessary experienced personnel, we could have a shortage of skilled workers and may not be able to cope with the rapid expansion of our business. Risks Related To Our Industry China’s commitments to the World Trade Organization may intensify competition. In connection with its accession to the World Trade Organization, China made many commitments including opening its markets to foreign products, allowing foreign companies to conduct distribution business and reducing customs duties. As a result, foreign manufacturers may ship their NPCC products or establish manufacturing facilities in China. Competition from foreign companies may reduce profit margins and hence our business results would suffer. Our failure to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could hurt our operations and reduce our market share. In China, the chemical industry is undergoing increasing regulations as environmental awareness increases in China. The trend is that the Chinese government toughens its regulations and penalties for violations of environmental regulations. New regulatory actions are constantly changing our industry. Although we believe we have complied with applicable government regulations, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other NPCC product companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business could suffer. The market for our products is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. Our products compete with a multitude of products developed, manufactured and marketed by others and we expect competition from new market entrants in the future. Existing or future competing products may provide better quality, greater utility, lower cost or other benefits from their intended uses than our products, or may offer comparable performance at lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business would suffer. Risks Related To Doing Business In China Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operational results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of -15- the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some changes that could have this effect are: · Level of government involvement in the economy; · Control of foreign exchange; · Methods of allocating resources; · Balance of payments position; · International trade restrictions; and · International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. The economic reforms in China have been conducted under a tight control of the Chinese government. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we hold in Chinese properties. Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. -16- Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi and U.S. Dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. If we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Risks Related To The Market For Our Stock The trading prices of many companies that have business operations only in China have been volatile, which may result in large fluctuations in the price of our common stock and losses for investors. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many companies that have business operations exclusively in China. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of many of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of these companies could decrease our stock price regardless of our operating results. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; · announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; · additions or terminations of coverage of our common stock by securities analysts; · statements by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; · conditions or trends in the our industry; and · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other NPCC and chemical companies. The prices at which our common stock trades will affect our ability to raise capital, which may have an adverse affect on our ability to fund our operations. Our common stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” and, as such, the market for our common stock may be further limited by certain SEC rules applicable to penny stocks. To the extent the price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share or we have net tangible assets of $2,000,000 or less, our common shares will be subject to certain “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC. Those rules impose certain sales practice requirements on brokers who sell penny stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of -17- $1,000,000). For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, the broker must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Furthermore, the penny stock rules generally require, among other things, that brokers engaged in secondary trading of penny stocks provide customers with written disclosure documents, monthly statements of the market value of penny stocks, disclosure of the bid and asked prices, disclosure of the compensation to the brokerage firm, and disclosure of the sales person working for the brokerage firm. These rules and regulations adversely the affect the ability of brokers to sell our common shares and limit the liquidity of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the SEC. Item 