Risk Factors You should carefully consider all the information contained in this report and the following risk factors that affect us and our industry in evaluating us and our business. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also affect our business. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The market price of our equity shares or ADSs could decline due to any of these risks or uncertainties. Risks Relating to Our Business We expect to continue to encounter increased competition in each of our markets, which could reduce our revenues. The Indian government is rapidly liberalizing the telecommunications industry in India. The Department of Telecommunications (DOT) may license, at its discretion, multiple additional service providers in any service area, with respect to both basic telecommunications services and cellular services. In November 2003, the Department issued guidelines for Unified Access Licenses, which cover both basic and cellular services within a service area. In the Indian context, “basic telecommunications services” or “basic services” include basic fixed-line access service and a number of other telecommunications services, other than long distance services, cellular service and Internet access. Basic services also include CDMA-based fixed wireless and mobile services (without roaming). Tata Teleservices Limited and Reliance Infocomm Limited are currently competing with us in the market for basic services in both Mumbai and Delhi, and Bharti Tele-Ventures Limited is also competing with us in the basic services market in Delhi and Mumbai. All of these companies already have significant telecommunications infrastructure in Delhi and Mumbai, including, with respect to Tata Teleservices and Reliance Infocom, low-cost CDMA mobile and fixed wireless technology. With approximately 56.08% of our call units having come from approximately 12.86% of our access lines in service, we are particularly vulnerable to losing market share if these or other new operators aggressively target our largest subscribers. Some of our largest customers have already migrated to other basic service operators. We experience significant and growing competition in the market for GSM cellular and Internet services. Many of these service providers enjoy significant penetration in these markets, have established brand names and have more experience operating a cellular network than we do. Cellular operators also face competition from rapidly growing CDMA-based mobile services, which are priced considerably lower than GSM cellular services. Increased competition has kept and will likely continue to keep downward pressure on prices and has required and will likely continue to require us to increase our capital investment to improve and expand our services. These developments, in turn, have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our profitability. Our business is subject to substantial regulation by the Government. The DOT retains the right to revoke our licenses after giving one month’s notice to us. The DOT also retains the right, after giving notice to us, to modify the terms and conditions of our licenses at any time if in their opinion it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunications sector. A revocation of any license or a change in significant terms of any license, such as its duration, the amount of license fee payable, the range of services permitted and the scope of exclusivity could limit our ability to operate particular lines of our business or result in increased costs in the form of increased license fees or costs associated with applying for new licenses, or contesting limitations on our licenses. Regulations applicable to public sector enterprises in India governing certain personnel matters, procurement, capital expenditure and the issuance of securities may affect our ability to compete effectively. As long as the Indian government’s shareholding in us equals or exceeds 51%, we are deemed to be an Indian government company. As such, we are subject to laws and regulations generally applicable to public sector enterprises in India. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, personnel matters, procurement, budgeting and capital expenditures and the generation of funds through the issuance of securities. 4 Table of Contents Under our articles of association, the President of India, on behalf of the Indian government, may also issue directives with respect to the conduct of our business and affairs, and certain matters with respect to our business, including the appointment and remuneration of our Chairman and Managing Director and the declaration of dividends. None of our shareholders, management or board of directors may take action in respect of any matter reserved for the President of India without his approval. If the President of India does not allow us to make capital expenditures pursuant to our business plan, we may be unable to compete effectively or maintain profitability. Government formalities, including requirements that many of our purchases be made through a competitive bidding process, often cause delays in our equipment and product procurement; these delays can place us at a disadvantage relative to private sector competitors. The Indian government, our controlling shareholder, when considering matters pertaining to us, often also considers the interests of the largest government-owned telecommunications company, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL). The Indian government is evaluating the possibility of a merger of us with BSNL. The Indian government, through the DOT, holds 56.25% of our outstanding equity shares and 100% of BSNL’s equity shares. Consequently, the DOT controls both of us. The DOT has the power to determine the outcome of most actions requiring approval of our board of directors or shareholders, including proposed expansion of our basic and cellular services into new areas in which we may compete with BSNL, transactions with BSNL or the assertion of claims against BSNL. When considering many of these matters, the DOT may also take into account the interests of BSNL. Failure by the DOT to resolve conflicts involving us and BSNL in an equitable manner could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. India’s Ministry of Communications has appointed private sector banks to act as consultants to advise on restructuring BSNL and us. We understand that these consultants have submitted their reports. There have been media reports about consideration of a merger of our companies or the transfer by the DOT of their shares in us to BSNL or to a holding company that would control both us and BSNL. There are no further announcements on this. We cannot assess the likelihood of such a transaction, or the impact of such a transaction on our business or the value of our shares or ADSs. We have significant related party transactions. The Indian Government is our controlling shareholder and hence we are deemed to be an Indian government company. As such, we are subject to laws and regulations generally applicable to public sector enterprises in India. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, personnel matters, procurement, budgeting and capital expenditures and the generation of funds through the issuance of securities. We have extensive commercial and regulatory relationships with the DOT and BSNL, most of which were established at the time when there was no corporate separation between the DOT, BSNL and us. Also the Indian Government when considering matters pertaining to us, often also considers the interests of the largest government-owned telecommunications company, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL). We have significant amounts due from related party and our inability to collect them or change in the terms of our arrangements with our related parties could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. See Notes 3, 4, 19 and 25 to our consolidated financial statements and Item 7B. Related Party Transactions in this report. We do not have title to property, and we cannot sell our properties without payment of stamp duties and registering properties in our name. In 1987, the assets and properties of the DOT located in Delhi and Mumbai were transferred to us by an order of the Government of India (the “Government”) and a deed of sale was executed by the Government in our favor representing an irrevocable transfer. Indian law generally requires that to perfect the transfer or lease of real property, the transfer should be evidenced by a formal, duly stamped deed of transfer and registered with the Central Land Registrar within a specified period after the execution of the deed of transfer or lease. A formal transfer deed for real property of the DOT, transferred by the Government to us has been executed but has not been registered with the appropriate municipal authorities. The formal transfer deed and physical delivery of possession of the DOT’s non-real estate assets has resulted in the transfer of such non-real estate assets of the DOT to us in Delhi and Mumbai. 5 Table of Contents Indian law also requires payment of stamp duty (at rates which vary among states) on instruments, which effect transfer of title to real estate or in respect of leases of real estate. We have not paid stamp duty in respect of any of the acquired or leased properties. Accordingly, we may be liable for stamp duty and penalties thereon if a deed is registered by us in the future (other than with respect to the DOT properties acquired from the Government as at March 30, 1987). All liabilities for stamp duties in respect of the DOT properties acquired by us from the Government as at March 30, 1987 are to be borne by the Government. We have been advised by our counsel that although we have valid possession including the risks and rewards of ownership and title to all of our property to enable us to perfect and thereby acquire marketable title to real property in our possession, we would need to have relevant documents relating to transfer or lease of real property duly registered and stamped. Accordingly, we cannot sell our properties without payment of stamp duties and registering the properties in our name. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. In certain areas management had concluded there were material weaknesses in our internal controls. We are incorporated in India and investors should be aware that there are differences in the governance standards and shareholder rights for a U.S. company and those applicable to a foreign isser as us. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations, the NYSE, rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, rules, and Indian stock market listing regulations are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time, as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such corporate governance standards. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We consistently assess the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, remediate any control deficiencies that may be identified, and validate through testing that our controls are functioning as documented. As of March 31, 2008, management had concluded that our internal controls over periodical reporting were not effective by reason of certain material weaknesses, particularly as to updating of our fixed assets register, reconciliation of subscriber deposits, accounting for related party transactions and information technology controls. These deficiencies could result in misstatements in reporting in those areas. We had undertaken certain initiatives and remedial action in those areas during the 2008 fiscal year and have undertaken additional remedial action and expect to complete the remedial action in the 2009 fiscal year. See Item 15. Controls and Procedures. We have received a demand to pay sales tax in respect of certain historical telecommunications revenues, mainly telephone rental charges. We are not yet able to estimate our potential aggregate liability, but it could be large and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We have received a demand from the state government of Maharashtra, of which Mumbai is a part, for payment of Rs.1.9 billion in sales tax for fiscal 1989-2000 on certain telecommunications revenues, mainly telephone rental charges. We have challenged the demands raised before the respective high courts and we have been granted interim stays against enforcement of the demands. However this stay order is subject to the outcome of the Supreme Court judgment on the issue. During the year ended March 31, 2006, the Supreme Court of India has concluded in the BSNL Vs Union of India case that rendering basic services does not amount to a “transfer of right to use the telephone system”. Hence the imposition of the sales tax on any facility of the telecommunication services is untenable in law. Based on opinion received from legal counsel and drawing reference to the judgment of the Supreme Court of India in the abovementioned case, management believes that the sales tax departments would have to withdraw their demands of sales tax on basic telephony and that an adverse outcome in respect of the above is remote. The legal case filed in the Sales Tax Tribunal Maharashtra has been remanded to the Commissioner to reconsider the issue in light of the above Supreme Court judgment. 6 Table of Contents If we were required to pay sales tax in respect of certain historical revenues, including telephone rentals, such payments could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. At this time, we cannot estimate potential aggregate actual liability associated with sales tax. We have and may continue to implement Voluntary Retirement Schemes that will affect our profitability. We have and continue to offer voluntary retirement to certain of our employees with a view to reducing our workforce. While we believe the long-term effect to our financial performance will be beneficial, the cost of such programs will affect our profitability over the next few years. Risks Relating to Investments in Indian Companies There are risks of political uncertainty in India that could affect our business. During the past decade, the government of India has pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. A coalition government is in power. We cannot assure that these liberalization policies will continue in the future. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and could adversely affect the telecommunications licensing and regulatory framework in which we operate our business. A slowdown in economic growth in India may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our performance and the quality and growth of our business are necessarily dependent on the health of the overall Indian economy. The Indian economy has grown significantly over the past few years. Any future slowdown in the Indian economy could harm us, our customers and other contractual counterparties. In addition, the Indian economy is in a state of transition. The share of the services sector of the economy is rising while that of the industrial, manufacturing and agricultural sector is declining. It is difficult to gauge the impact of these fundamental economic changes on our business. Financial instability in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia, could adversely affect the Indian economy and cause our business and the market for our equity shares and ADSs to suffer. Financial turmoil in Asia, Russia and elsewhere in the world in the late 1990s affected different sectors of the Indian economy in varying degrees. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can have adverse effects on the securities of companies in other countries, including India. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of other emerging markets may cause increased volatility in Indian financial markets and, indirectly, in the Indian economy in general. Any worldwide financial instability could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and ADSs. Social conflict, terrorism and related military activity may adversely affect the Indian economy or world economic activity, either of which could adversely affect our business and the prices of our equity shares and ADSs. India and other parts of the world have recently experienced significant social conflict and/or terrorist acts. In India, social conflict, including religious and regional/separatist conflicts, has been an ongoing problem, which occasionally includes significant acts of terrorism. To the extent that the Indian economy is adversely affected by such conflict, terrorism or military activity, our business may also be adversely affected, resulting in a decline in revenue, and the prices of our equity shares and ADSs may decline. 7 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the ADSs and Equity Shares Ability to withdraw equity shares from the depositary facility is uncertain and may be subject to delays. India’s restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian companies limit the number of shares that may be owned by foreign investors and generally require government approval for foreign ownership. The maximum foreign ownership permitted in us without prior governmental approval is 49% under the sectoral caps currently provided for by the government of India and the Reserve Bank of India. Investors who withdraw equity shares from the depositary facility will be subject to Indian regulatory restrictions on foreign ownership of equity shares upon withdrawal. It is possible that this withdrawal process may be subject to delays. Ability to sell in India any equity shares withdrawn from the depositary facility may be subject to delays. Persons seeking to sell in India any equity shares withdrawn upon surrender of an ADS will require Reserve Bank of India approval for each such transaction. Because of possible delays in obtaining necessary approvals, holders of equity shares may be prevented from realizing gains during periods of price increases or limiting losses during periods of price declines. Ability to withdraw and redeposit shares in the depositary facility is limited, which may cause our equity shares to trade at a discount or premium to the market price of our ADSs. Because of Indian legal restrictions, despite recent relaxations, the supply of ADSs may be limited. Under procedures recently adopted by the Reserve Bank of India, the depositary will be permitted to accept deposits of our outstanding equity shares and deliver ADSs representing the deposited equity shares to the extent, and limited to the number, of ADSs that have previously been converted into underlying equity shares. Under these new procedures, if you elect to surrender your ADSs and receive equity shares, you may be unable to re-deposit those outstanding equity shares with our depositary and receive ADSs because the number of new ADSs that can be issued cannot, at any time, exceed the number of ADSs converted into underlying equity shares or result in foreign equity in us exceeding 49%. This may restrict your ability to re-convert the equity shares obtained by you to ADSs. Also, investors who exchange ADSs for the underlying equity shares and are not holders of record will be required to declare to us details of the holder of record. Any investor who fails to comply may be liable for a fine of up to Rs.1,000 for each day such failure continues. See Item 10. “Additional Information—Indian Foreign Exchange Controls and Securities Regulations.” The restrictions described above may cause our equity shares to trade at a discount or premium to our ADSs. Conditions in the Indian securities market may affect the price or liquidity of the equity shares and the ADSs. The Indian securities markets are generally smaller and more volatile than securities markets in the world’s major financial centers. Indian stock exchanges have also experienced problems that have affected the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies. These problems have included temporary exchange closures, the suspension of stock exchange administration, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Further, from time to time, disputes have occurred between listed companies and stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which, in some cases, may have had a negative effect on market sentiment. Similar problems could happen in the future and, if they do, they could affect the market price and liquidity of our equity shares and our ADSs. Because there may be less company information available in Indian securities markets than securities markets in more developed countries, the price of our equity shares could fluctuate unexpectedly. There is a difference between the level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities market and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants and that of markets in the United States and other developed 8 Table of Contents economies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India is responsible for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has issued regulations and guidelines on disclosure requirements, insider trading and other matters. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in developed economies. As a result, shareholders could act on incomplete information and cause the price of our equity shares to fluctuate unexpectedly. ADS holders may be unable to exercise preemptive rights available to shareholders and therefore may suffer future dilution of their ownership position. A company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless these rights have been waived by at least 75% of the company’s shareholders present and voting at a shareholders’ general meeting. Holders of our ADSs as well as our shareholders located in the United States may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for our equity shares underlying our ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling investors in our ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. We do not commit that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such rights in the future, the rights would be issued to the depositary, which may sell the rights in the securities markets in India for the benefit of the holders of our ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the depositary would receive upon the sale of the rights. To the extent that holders of our ADSs as well as our shareholders located in the United States are unable to exercise preemptive rights, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. ADS holders may be subject to potential losses arising out of exchange rate risk on the Indian rupee and risks associated with the conversion of rupee proceeds into foreign currency. Holders of ADSs as well as our shareholders located outside India will be subject to currency fluctuation risks and convertibility risks, since our equity shares are quoted in rupees on the Indian stock exchanges on which they are listed. Dividends on our equity shares will also be paid in rupees, and then converted into US dollars for distribution to ADS holders. Holders that seek to convert the rupee proceeds of a sale of equity shares withdrawn upon surrender of ADSs into foreign currency and export the foreign currency will need to obtain the approval of the Reserve Bank of India for each transaction. In addition, holders that seek to sell equity shares withdrawn from the depositary facility will have to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India, unless the sale is made on a stock exchange or in connection with an offer made under the regulations regarding takeovers. Holders of rupees in India may also generally not purchase foreign currency without general or special approval from the Reserve Bank of India. ADS holders may be subject to Indian taxes arising out of capital gains. Generally, capital gains, whether short-term or long-term, arising on the sale of the underlying equity shares in India are subject to Indian capital gains tax. For the purpose of computing the amount of capital gains subject to tax, Indian law specifies that the cost of acquisition of the equity shares will be deemed to be the share price prevailing on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai or the National Stock Exchange on the date the depositary advises the custodian to deliver equity shares upon surrender of ADSs. The period of holding of equity shares, for determining whether the gain is long-term or short-term, commences on the date of the giving of such notice by the depositary to the custodian. Investors are advised to consult their own tax advisers and to consider carefully the potential tax consequences of an investment in our ADSs. 9 Table of Contents ADS holders may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of India. All our directors and executive officers are residents of India and almost all of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in India. India is not a party to any international treaty in relation to the recognition or enforcement of foreign judgments. We have been advised by counsel that recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments is provided for on a statutory basis and that foreign judgments shall be conclusive regarding any matter directly adjudicated upon except where: · the judgment has not been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction; · the judgment has not been given on the merits of the case; · it appears on the face of the proceedings that the judgment is founded on an incorrect view of international law or a refusal to recognize the law of India in cases in which Indian law is applicable; · the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice; · the judgment has been obtained by fraud; or · the judgment sustains a claim founded on a breach of any law in force in India. It may not be possible for holders of our ADSs or our shareholders to effect service of process upon us or our directors and executive officers and experts named in the report that are residents of India outside India or to enforce judgments obtained against us or them in foreign courts predicated upon the liability provisions of foreign countries, including the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Moreover, it is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. An Indian court may not enforce a foreign judgment involving more than actual and quantifiable damages. Although announced policy indicates there is no intention to do so, possible sales of our equity shares by the government of India could affect the value of our ADSs. The government of India holds approximately 56.25% of our outstanding equity shares. There have been no indications that the current government of India plans to further reduce its shareholding in us through a sale of equity. As a result, this ownership affects the voting by shareholders and the ability to influence any third party transactions, such as mergers or other business combinations. Any future disposal of equity shares by the Indian government could adversely affect the trading price of our equity shares and ADSs. 