Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our business may be negatively impacted as a result of the current downturn in the United States economy. The United States general economy is currently experiencing a downturn that may deepen into a recession. Our business depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, our largest direct customers. Purchases of high-fashion apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, when consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items, and disposable income decline. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, energy costs, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, maintain sales levels at our existing stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the United States or global economy. Furthermore, in anticipation of continued increases in net sales, we have significantly expanded our infrastructure and workforce. Because these expenses are fixed in the short term, our operating results and margins will be adversely impacted if we do not continue to grow as anticipated. The current economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect consumer spending and sales of our products. Our continued operations depend on current fashion trends. If our designs and products do not continue to be fashionable, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop, market and deliver innovative and stylish products that are consistent and build on our brand and image at a pace and intensity competitive with our competition. The novelty and the design of our True Religion Brand Jeans apparel is critical to our success and competitive position, and the inability to continue to develop and offer unique products to our customers could harm our business. We cannot be certain that high-fashion denim and related apparel will continue to be fashionable. Should the trend steer away from high-fashion denim and related apparel, our sales could decrease and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, our future designs and plans to expand our product offerings may not be successful, and any unsuccessful designs or product offerings could adversely affect our business. 6 Our business and the success of our products could be harmed if we are unable to maintain our brand image. Our success to date has been due in large part to the growth of our brand image. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, our brand name and brand image may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brand image to be outdated or associate our brand with styles that are no longer popular. In the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in revenues and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our business may be similarly affected in the future. We face intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours, and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. We face intense competition in the apparel industry from other established companies. A number of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technological, manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the apparel industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the industry. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the style and quality of our products and the strength of our brand name, as well as many factors beyond our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, which would adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Increases in the price of raw materials or their reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, blends, synthetics and wools. The prices we pay our suppliers for our products are dependent in part on the market price for raw materials—primarily cotton—used to produce them. The price and availability of cotton may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, crop yields, weather, supply conditions, transportation costs, work stoppages, government regulation, economic climates and other unpredictable factors. Increases in raw material costs, together with other factors, will make it difficult for us to sustain the wholesale gross margin level we have achieved in recent years and result in a decrease of our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our wholesale and retail customers. Moreover, any decrease in the availability of cotton could impair our ability to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. Risks Related to Our Business The matters relating to the voluntary review of our past equity award practices and the restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements may result in litigation and governmental enforcement actions. We have restated our consolidated financial statements and other financial information for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 with respect to errors in the accounting for stock-based compensation and errors in the tax treatment for certain executive compensation, and have corrected the provisions for income taxes to account for the tax impact of these restatements. The Company's past equity granting practices and the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed the Company to risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions, including the risk that the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have 7 accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of the restatement which could result in the Company having to further restate its prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. The internal review and related activities have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted management's attention from our business, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In November 2007, the Company received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating that, as a result of the delayed filing of the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 (the "September 10-Q"), the Company was not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and was therefore subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. On February 13, 2008, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel granted the Company's request for continued listing, subject to the Company filing the September 10-Q, the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the "2007 10-K"), and any required restatements, with the SEC by March 17, 2008, which the Panel subsequently extended to April 30, 2008. On or before April 30, 2008, the Company filed the September 10-Q, the 2007 10-K, and the restatements. The Company believes that it has remedied its non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to NASDAQ's affirmative completion of its compliance protocols. However, if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which the Company has accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of equity grants, there could be further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports that might result in delisting of the Company's common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. We may be unable to sustain our past growth or manage our future growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception, and have increased our net sales from $27.7 million in 2004 to $173.3 million in 2007. We anticipate that our future growth rate will depend upon various factors, including the strength of our brand image, the market success of our current and future products, the success or our growth strategies, competitive conditions and our ability to manage our future growth. Future growth may place a significant strain on our management and operations. As we continue to grow in our operations, our operational, administrative, financial and legal procedures and controls will need to be expanded. As a result, we may need to train and manage an increasing number of employees, which could distract our management team from our business. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage our anticipated growth. If we are unable to anticipate or manage our growth effectively, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We place orders with our manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive all of our customers' orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We also maintain an inventory of certain products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. 8 Increasing the number of branded company-operated stores will require us to develop new capabilities and increase our expenditures. We plan to continue to expand the number of company-operated branded retail and outlet stores. Although we operated 15 branded retail stores as of December 31, 2007, we are primarily a wholesaler and an increase in the number of branded company-operated stores will require us to further develop our retailing skills and capabilities. We will be required to enter into additional leases, increase our rental expenses and make capital expenditures for these stores. These commitments may be costly to terminate, and these investments may be difficult to recapture if we decide to close a store or change our strategy. We must also offer a broad product assortment, appropriately manage retail inventory levels, install and operate effective retail systems, execute effective pricing strategies and integrate our stores into our overall business mix. Finally, we will need to hire and train additional qualified employees and incur additional costs to operate these stores, which will increase our operating expenses. We must successfully maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. This subjects us to inherent costs and risks associated with maintaining, upgrading, replacing and changing this system, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in upgrading, transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. Any information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We plan to replace our current design and wholesale management information system with a system that is intended to improve integration, efficiency and operations of our expanding business model. There is no guarantee we will be able to successfully implement this new system, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We rely on contract manufacturing of our products. Our inability to secure production sources meeting our quality, cost, working conditions and other requirements, or failures by our contractors to perform, could harm our sales, service levels and reputation. We source our products from independent manufacturers who purchase fabric and other raw materials. As a result, we must locate and secure production capacity. We depend on independent manufacturers to maintain adequate financial resources, secure a sufficient supply of raw materials, and maintain sufficient development and manufacturing capacity in an environment characterized by continuing cost pressure and demands for product innovation and speed-to-market. In addition, we do not have material long-term contracts with any of our independent manufacturers, and these manufacturers generally may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. Our dependence on contract manufacturing could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. A manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our wholesale customers. In addition, any interference with our ability to receive shipments from those manufacturers, such as conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, could cause delayed delivery of product. Additionally, if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if we need to replace any of the manufacturers that we currently use, we may have to expand our third party manufacturing capacity. We cannot be assured that this capacity will be available to us, or that if available it will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. Failing 9 to make timely deliveries may cause our customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries, impose non-compliance charges through invoice deductions or other charge-backs, demand reduced prices or reduce future orders, any of which could harm our sales and margins. Our success depends on the continued protection of our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position, and the loss of or inability to enforce trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights could harm our business. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis. Our efforts to establish and protect our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation or counterfeiting of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products. Unauthorized copying of our products or unauthorized use of our trademarks or other proprietary rights may not only erode sales of our products but may also cause significant damage to our brand names and our ability to effectively represent ourselves to our customers. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries may not allow us to protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as we are able to in the United States and other countries. Our business could suffer from the financial instability of our customers. In the United States, we sell our product to certain retail companies on open account with 30 to 60 day payment terms. In foreign markets, we generally obtain a letter of credit or wire transfer before shipment, but these arrangements are not always possible. Customer financial difficulties could result in losses for our company. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets and our ability to grow in these markets or new international markets is subject to various risk, including the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, political instability, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships and general economic conditions in specific countries or markets. Additionally, we can not predict whether quotas, duties, tariffs, taxes or restrictions will be imposed by the United States or any other country upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer or other key management personnel would have an adverse impact on our future development and could impair our ability to succeed. Our performance is substantially dependent upon the expertise of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Lubell, and other key management personnel. Mr. Lubell spends all of his working time on our company's business. It may be difficult to find qualified individuals to replace Mr. Lubell or other key management personnel if we were to lose any one or more of them. The loss of Mr. Lubell or any of our key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, development, financial condition, and operating results. 10 Corporate insiders or their affiliates may be able to exercise significant control matters requiring a vote of our stockholders and their interests may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. As of April 18, 2008, our officers, directors and their affiliates as a group beneficially owned approximately 28.6% of our outstanding common stock, of which Jeffrey Lubell, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 26.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders may be able to exercise significant control over matters requiring approval by our stockholders. Matters that require the approval of our stockholders include the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Certain transactions are effectively not possible without the approval of Mr. Lubell, including, proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other transactions that can give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares of our common stock. Our licensees may not comply with our product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements. We license our trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing and distribution of various products. While we enter into agreements with our licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, our licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under our brand names that do not meet our quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet our standards. These activities could harm our brand equity, our reputation and our business. Our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonal fluctuations in demand for premium denim and related apparel, and accessories delivery date delays, timing of new store openings, recognition of share-based compensation and potential fluctuations in our annualized tax rate, which may result in volatility of our stock price. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, sales of our products have historically been somewhat seasonal in nature with the strongest sales generally occurring in the second half of the year. Delays in scheduling or pickup of products by our wholesale customers could negatively impact our net sales and results of operations for any given quarter. The timing of new store openings and the amount of revenue contributed by new stores could also impact our net sales and results of operations for any given quarter. We have granted restricted stock awards with a portion that immediately vested or vested in the near future in the first quarter of 2006, 2007, and 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2006. The compensation expense for the awards that vest immediately caused an increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses and reduced our net income and earnings per share in our quarterly income statements. Also, our annualized tax rate is based on projections of our operating results for the year, which we review and revise as necessary at the end of each quarter. Any quarterly fluctuations in our annualized tax rate that may occur could have a material impact on our quarterly operating results. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter and the results for any particular quarter may not be necessarily indicative of results for the full year. Any shortfall in revenues or net income from levels expected by securities analysts and investors could cause a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 