Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions and the current economic uncertainty in the global markets. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, our largest direct customers. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of high-fashion apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects as disposable income declines. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, maintain sales levels at our existing stores or the mix between full price and off-price stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, or maintain our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. Further, our wholesale customers anticipate and respond to adverse changes in economic conditions and uncertainty by reducing inventories and canceling orders. Even when the economy rebounds we do not anticipate that our wholesale customers will return to carrying the levels of inventory in our products as they carried prior to the economic downturn in 2008. As a result, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our continued operations depend on current fashion trends. If our designs and products do not continue to be fashionable, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop, market and deliver innovative and stylish products that are consistent with and build on our brand and image at a pace and intensity competitive with our competition. The novelty and the design of our True Religion Brand Jeans apparel are critical to our success and competitive position. The apparel industry is subject to rapidly evolving fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. If we are unable to continue to develop and offer unique products to our customers, our sales and margins will decline and we may be faced with a significant amount of unsold finished goods inventory. We cannot be certain that high-fashion denim and related apparel will continue to be fashionable. Should the trend steer away from high-fashion denim and related apparel, our sales could decrease and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, our future designs and plans to expand our product offerings may not be successful, and any unsuccessful designs or product offerings could adversely affect our business. Our business and the success of our products could be harmed if we are unable to maintain our brand image. Our success to date has been due in large part to the growth of our brand image. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, our brand name and brand image may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brand image to be outdated or associate our brand with styles that are no longer popular. In the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our business may be similarly affected in the future. Our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brand. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brand. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety or environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions, including boycotts. Public perception about our products or our stores, whether justified or not, could impair our 7 Table of Contents reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. We face intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours, and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. We face intense competition in the apparel industry from other established companies. A number of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technological, manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the apparel industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and more quickly develop new products. In addition, there are low barriers of entry into this industry and new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the industry. Our retail stores compete with many other retailers, including department stores, some of whom are our major wholesale customers. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the style and quality of our products and the strength of our brand name, as well as many factors beyond our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, which would adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Increases in the price of raw materials or their reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, blends, synthetics and wools. The prices we pay our suppliers for our products are dependent in part on the market price for raw materials—primarily cotton—used to produce them. The price and availability of cotton may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, crop yields, weather, supply conditions, transportation costs, work stoppages, government regulation, economic climates and other unpredictable factors. Cotton prices world-wide have increased significantly in the past two years, and the outlook for future prices is uncertain. Fluctuations in the price and availability of raw materials have not materially affected our cost of goods in recent years, but continued increases in raw material costs, unless sufficiently offset with our pricing actions or efficiencies in our production processes, might cause a decrease in our profitability. Also, any related pricing actions might cause a decline in our sales volume. We make some of our raw material commitments significantly in advance of the time that our finished goods are available for sale. Consequently, if cotton prices were to decline in the near term, we may not realize such savings in our cost of sales for some time. Moreover, any decrease in the availability of cotton could impair our ability to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to sustain our past growth or manage our future growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception, and have increased our net sales from $173.3 million in 2007 to $419.8 million in 2011. We anticipate that our future growth rate will depend upon various factors, including the strength of our brand image, the market success of our current and future products, the success of our growth strategies, competitive conditions and our ability to manage 8 Table of Contents our future growth. Future growth may place a significant strain on our management and operations. As we continue to grow in our operations, our operational, administrative, financial and legal procedures and controls will need to be expanded. As a result, we may need to train and manage an increasing number of employees, which could distract our management team from our business. Our future success will depend substantially on the ability of our management team to manage our anticipated growth. If we are unable to anticipate or manage our growth effectively, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins. The high fashion apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer spending patterns. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices for sales of products to retailers and directly to consumers in our Consumer Direct segment which could cause our gross margin to decline. If our sale prices decline and we are unable to offset such price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs, our future operating results could be adversely affected. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer or other key management personnel would have an adverse impact on our future development and could impair our ability to succeed. Our performance is substantially dependent upon the expertise of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Lubell, and other key management personnel. In addition to his executive officer functions, Mr. Lubell is our chief merchant and heads our design team. His leadership in the design, marketing and operational areas of our business has been instrumental to our growth. The death or disability of Mr. Lubell or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our other executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also have a material adverse effect on us. We do not maintain "key man" insurance with respect to Mr. Lubell or any of our other key management personnel, and any of them may leave us at any time, which could severely disrupt our business and future operating results. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels and allocate merchandise effectively. We must order and keep appropriate merchandise in stock to meet demand. As a result, the inability to accurately plan for product demand and allocate merchandise effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. Increasing the number of company-operated stores will require us to develop new capabilities and increase our expenditures. Our growth strategy is dependent in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and the availability of suitable store locations on acceptable terms. Although we operated 109 retail stores in the United States and 16 international retail stores as of December 31, 2011, we historically have been 9 Table of Contents primarily a wholesaler. In 2012, we plan to open approximately 13 company-operated full-price and outlet stores in the United States and approximately 14 retail stores in other countries. The success of this strategy is dependent upon, among other factors, the identification of suitable markets and sites for store locations, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the hiring, training and retention of competent sales personnel, and making capital expenditures for these stores. We must also offer a broad product assortment, appropriately manage retail inventory levels, install and operate effective retail systems, execute effective pricing strategies and integrate our stores into our overall business mix. An increase in the number of company-operated stores will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources and require us to further develop our retailing skills and capabilities. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our existing stores. The commitments associated with our expansion will increase our operating expenses and may be costly to terminate, and these investments may be difficult to recapture if we decide to close a store or change our strategy. Reduced operating results and cash flows at the store level may cause us to incur impairment charges. Long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment, are reviewed at the store level at least annually for impairment, or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that a full recovery of net asset values through future cash flows is in question. The review could result in significant charges related to underperforming stores, which could impact our results of operations. Furthermore, our impairment review requires us to make estimates and projections regarding, but not limited to, future cash flows. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for our store locations and other property and equipment. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be required to record impairment charges on certain store locations and other property and equipment. Leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. We enter into leases in connection with our retail stores. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing real estate. Store leases generally require us to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. We generally cannot terminate our leases and have restrictions in connection with assigning or subletting our leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease, including paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. As each of our leases expires, if we do not have a renewal option, we may be unable to renegotiate a renewal on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. In addition, we may not be able to close an unprofitable store due to an existing operating covenant, which may cause us to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our planned international expansion, which could impair the value of our brand, harm our business and negatively affect our results of operations. We plan to grow our net sales and net earnings from our International segment by opening True Religion Brand Jeans stores in various international markets. For example we established a regional office for EMEA in Switzerland and a regional office for APAC in Hong Kong and currently operate 16 international retail stores. We currently plan to open additional stores in Canada, Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom in 2012. As we continue to expand outside the United States, we may incur significant costs relating to starting up, maintaining and expanding foreign operations. Costs may include, but are not limited to obtaining prime locations for stores, setting-up foreign offices and hiring 10 Table of Contents personnel. We may be unable to open and operate new stores successfully and our growth may be limited unless we are able to: •identify desirable markets and sites for store locations; •negotiate acceptable lease terms; •efficiently build and equip new stores; •hire, train and retain competent store personnel; •manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; •successfully integrate stores into our existing operations; •manage foreign currency risk effectively; •satisfy the fashion preferences of customers in new geographic areas; and •achieve acceptable operating margins from new stores. We cannot be sure that we can successfully open new stores or that our new stores will be profitable. Additionally, our international expansion may place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources and these increased demands may cause the Company to operate its business less efficiently, which could harm the performance of its existing stores. We must successfully maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations, which subjects us to inherent costs and risks associated with maintaining, upgrading, replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in upgrading, transitioning to new systems or integrating new systems into our current systems. We rely on contract manufacturing of our products. Our inability to secure production sources meeting our quality, cost, working conditions and other requirements, or failures by our contractors to perform, could harm our sales, service levels and reputation. We source our products from independent manufacturers who purchase their own fabric and other raw materials. As a result, we must locate and secure production capacity. We depend on independent manufacturers to maintain adequate financial resources, secure a sufficient supply of raw materials, and maintain sufficient development and manufacturing capacity in an environment characterized by continuing cost pressure and demands for product innovation and speed-to-market. In addition, we do not have material long-term contracts with any of our independent manufacturers, and these manufacturers generally may unilaterally terminate their relationship with us at any time. Our dependence on contract manufacturing could subject us to difficulty in obtaining timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. A manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our wholesale customers. In addition, any interference with our ability to receive shipments from those manufacturers, such as conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, could cause delayed delivery of product. Additionally, if we experience a significant increase in demand, or if we need to replace any of the manufacturers that we currently use, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. This capacity may not be available to us, or available on terms that are acceptable to us. Failing to make timely deliveries may cause our customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries, impose non-compliance charges through invoice 11 Table of Contents deductions or other charge-backs, demand reduced prices or reduce future orders, any of which could harm our sales and margins. Our success depends on the continued protection of our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position, and the loss of or inability to enforce trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights could harm our business. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis. Despite any precautions we may take to protect our intellectual property, policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or determine the extent of any unauthorized use, particularly in those foreign countries where the laws do not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our efforts to establish and protect our trademark and other proprietary intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation or counterfeiting of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products for violating their trademarks and proprietary rights. Unauthorized copying of our products or unauthorized use of our trademarks or other proprietary rights may not only erode sales of our products but may also cause significant damage to our brand names and our ability to effectively represent ourselves to our customers. Also, we cannot be certain that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of True Religion, that our proprietary rights would be upheld if challenged or that we would, in that event, not be prevented from using our trademarks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we could incur substantial costs in legal actions relating to our use of intellectual property or the use of our intellectual property by others. Even if we are successful in these actions, the costs we incur could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business could suffer from the financial instability of our customers. In the United States, we sell our products to certain retail companies on open account with 30 to 60 day payment terms. We generally request a letter of credit or wire transfer before shipment to our foreign distributors, but these arrangements are not always possible. Customer financial difficulties could result in losses to us. A significant disruption at our distribution center could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. We primarily rely on a single distribution center located at our corporate offices in Vernon, California to receive, store and distribute merchandise to all of our stores and wholesale customers. Any significant interruption in the operation of our Vernon distribution center due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping centers and street locations in which they are located. In order to generate customer traffic, we locate many of our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping centers or in fashionable shopping districts. We cannot control the development of new shopping centers or districts; the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping centers or districts; competition with other retailers for prominent locations; or the success of individual shopping centers or districts. Each of these factors may impact our ability to meet our growth targets and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents A privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationship with our customers, expose the Company to litigation risk and adversely affect our business. As part of our normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information. Despite security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of the Company's third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by the Company or its vendors, could severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, expose the Company to risks of litigation and liability and adversely affect our business. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. As we continue to increase our international operations, we face the possibility of greater losses from a number of risks inherent in doing business in international markets and from a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things: •political instability or acts of terrorism, which disrupt trade with the countries in which our contractors, suppliers or customers are located; difficulties in managing our foreign operations; •local business practices that do not conform to legal or ethical guidelines; adoption of additional or revised quotas, restrictions or regulations relating to imports or exports; •additional or increased customs duties, tariffs, taxes and other charges on imports; •significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies; •increased difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions; •social, legal or economic instability in the foreign markets in which we do business, which could influence our ability to sell our products in these international markets; •restrictions on the transfer of funds between the United States and foreign jurisdictions; and •the ability of our international distributors to locate and continue to open desirable new retail locations. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source some of our products overseas. The cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the applicable currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international business will sell products. Furthermore, our international sales and some of our licensing revenue are generally derived from sales in foreign currencies. This revenue, when translated into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting purposes, could be materially affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar, negatively impacting our results of operations and our ability to generate revenue growth. Our licensees may not comply with our product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements. We license our trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing and distribution of various products. While we enter into agreements with our licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, our licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under our brand names that 13 Table of Contents do not meet our quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet our standards. These activities could harm our brand equity, our reputation and our business. Violation of labor laws and practices by our licensees or suppliers could harm our business. We require our licensing partners and suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our code of conduct promotes ethical business practices, we do not control our licensees or suppliers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by any of our licensees or suppliers, or divergence of a licensee's or supplier's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of our products, harm the value of our trademarks, damage our reputation or expose us to potential liability for their wrongdoings. Our quarterly sales and operating results fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including seasonal fluctuations in demand for premium denim and related apparel and accessories, delivery date delays, timing of new store openings, recognition of stock-based compensation and potential fluctuations in our annualized tax rate, which may result in volatility of our stock price. Our quarterly sales and operating results have varied significantly in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, sales of our products have historically been somewhat seasonal in nature with the largest sales generally occurring in the second half of the year. Delays in scheduling or picking up products by our wholesale customers could negatively impact our net sales and results of operations for any given quarter. The timing of new store openings and the amount of sales contributed by new stores could also impact our net sales and results of operations for any given quarter. The compensation expense for stock-based compensation awards that vest immediately caused an increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses and reduced our net income and earnings per share in our quarterly income statements. Also, our annualized tax rate is based on projections of our operating results for the year, which we review and revise as necessary at the end of each quarter. Any quarterly fluctuations in our annualized tax rate that may occur could have a material impact on our quarterly operating results. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter and the results for any particular quarter may not be necessarily indicative of results for the full year. Any shortfall in sales or net income from levels expected by securities analysts and investors could cause a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. Our litigation exposure could exceed expectations, having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are involved, from time-to-time, in litigation incidental to our business, such as litigation regarding the maintenance of our trademarks, commercial disputes with vendors or customers, claims of breach of privacy laws and laws governing business practices, overtime compensation and other employment or wage and hour related matters. We may establish reserves for any such litigation as appropriate based upon assessments and estimates in accordance with our accounting policies. We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time and rely on legal and management judgment. However, the results of such litigation matters are difficult to predict. Our current exposure could change in the event of the discovery of damaging facts with respect to legal matters pending against us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact that are not in accordance with management's evaluation of the claims. Should management's evaluation prove incorrect, our exposure could greatly exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility in our operating results. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales, consumption or value-added taxes ("VAT") in many jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for estimates of probable settlements of foreign and domestic tax audits. At any one time, many tax years are subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as taxable events occur and exposures are evaluated. In addition, our effective tax rate in any given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings or by changes to existing tax rules or regulations. Fluctuations in duties could also have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In some international markets, we are required to hold and submit VAT to the appropriate local tax authorities. Failure to correctly calculate or submit the appropriate amounts could subject us to substantial fines and penalties that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, tax legislation may be enacted in the future, domestically or abroad, that impacts our current or future tax structure and effective tax rate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 