1A. Risk Factors,” is not exhaustive of the factors that may affect any of our forward-looking statements. You should read this report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. These forward-looking statements represent our beliefs, expectations and opinions only as of the date of this report. We do not intend to update these forward looking statements except as required by law. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. ii PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS History and Organization We are engaged in the exploration of gold and silver properties, primarily in Mexico, with a goal of production in the near future. We were organized under the laws of the State of Colorado in 1998. We pursue exploration of gold and silver projects that we believe feature low operating costs and have the potential to produce a high return on the capital invested. We hold a 100% interest in four properties in Mexico’s southern State of Oaxaca. See “Item 2. Properties” for more information about our properties. We are constructing a mill and a mine at our flagship property, the El Aguila Project, which will be our first mine upon successful start-up, which is targeted for 2009. We completed our IPO in August 2006 at $1.00 per share and received gross proceeds of $4,600,000. We raised additional capital pursuant to three private placements of our common stock; one in December 2006 for gross proceeds of $5,186,400, one in December 2007 for gross proceeds of $22,234,000 and one with two tranches which occurred in December 2008 and February 2009 for gross proceeds of $18,000,000. We used the initial IPO and the 2006 private placement funds to conduct exploration activities at the El Aguila property. We decided to move forward with efforts to construct a mill and a mine at the El Aguila Project on April 11, 2007. We used the funds from the 2007 private placement to commence construction of a mine and mill at the El Aguila Project. We anticipate using the funds provided by the most recent private placement to continue these efforts, as well as to undertake additional exploration activities. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” for more information. As discussed in more detail in “Developments During 2008” below, we entered into a strategic alliance with Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited at the end of 2008. Under the strategic alliance, we have agreed to extend certain rights and benefits to that company in connection with its purchase of our common stock. Our principal executive offices are located at 222 Milwaukee Street, Suite 301, Denver, Colorado 80206, and our telephone number is (303) 320-7708. Our operations in Mexico are conducted through our wholly-owned Mexican subsidiaries, Don David Gold, S.A. de C.V. and Golden Trump Resources S. A. de C.V. We maintain a website at www.goldresourcecorp.com and through a link on our website you can view the periodic filings that we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Please refer to page 16 of this report for a glossary of certain terms used herein. Developments During 2008 Exploration. Our flagship property, the El Aguila property, was the primary focus of our exploration program during 2008. Using funds obtained from our private placement in 2007, we focused exploration drilling on three areas: the El Aguila near-surface mineralized area, the El Aire vein area, which is located along the same structural zone two kilometers from the near-surface mineralized area, and a new discovery of mineralization near El Aire which we call the La Arista area. Our drilling has shown that each of these areas have gold and silver mineralized material and, except for the El Aguila near-surface mineralized area, have base metal mineralization of copper, lead and zinc. As a result of encouraging exploration results and our belief that the mineralized material can be extracted and processed economically, we made a decision in 2007 to begin preparing El Aguila for production, targeting to begin production in 2009. A substantial amount of our business activities during 2008 were focused toward that goal. Additional, albeit limited, exploration was conducted at our El Rey property during 2008. We completed a total of 27,000 meters (89,100 feet) in exploration drilling and spent approximately $22,670,000 in 2008 at our properties in Mexico. However, we have not established proven or probable reserves as defined by regulation of the SEC on our El Aguila Project or any of our other properties. 1 Construction at El Aguila Project. The engineering firm of Lyntek Inc. of Denver, Colorado has designed the mill and infrastructure requirements at the El Aguila Project on our behalf. To date, we have committed or spent approximately $15,000,000 on construction of a mill and an additional $5,000,000 on infrastructure. We estimate we will spend an additional $5,000,000 to $6,000,000 to complete the mill facility. We anticipate that the facility we are building will process 850 tonnes of ore per day through a flotation circuit and 150 tonnes of ore per day through an agitated leach circuit. We are estimating completion of the mill mid-2009, but we cannot predict the exact date since the construction progress depends on the performance of multiple contractors. During 2008, we received from the Mexican government permits which approved construction of the access road, the mill facility and the tailings impoundment. We are awaiting the open pit mine permit from the same Mexican federal agency. We expect that mining in the first year of production will take place at the El Aguila near-surface mineralization open pit mine and have commenced pre-stripping of the open pit mine area. Mining in the second year is anticipated to come from the La Arista vein mineralized material and will require development of an underground mine. In October 2007, we acquired an additional parcel of land which comprises approximately five hectares and is located adjacent to the community of San Jose de Gracia. During 2008, we completed construction of an employee housing facility for the El Aguila Project, as well as a health clinic which will be available to employees and local residents. The facility encompasses 10 buildings, including a cafeteria, and can house approximately 50 people. See “Item 2. Properties” below for additional information. Strategic Alliance with Hochschild. In December 2008, we entered into a strategic alliance agreement with Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited (“Hochschild”). Hochschild is a Peruvian based, leading precious metals producer operating primarily in the Americas. Hochschild is a private limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales and an affiliate of publicly-traded Hochschild Mining plc, whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol “HOC.” Pursuant to the terms of the strategic alliance agreement, we initially sold Hochschild 1,670,000 shares of our common stock for gross proceeds of $5,010,000 in a private placement. We also granted Hochschild an 80-day option to purchase 4,330,000 additional shares of our common stock for gross proceeds of $12,990,000, which was exercised on February 25, 2009. As part of the strategic alliance, we have agreed, among other things, to the following: • To offer Hochschild a right of first refusal to participate in future equity financings solicited by us prior to commencement of commercial production; • To afford it a first right of refusal to participate in any joint ventures we might pursue with regard to any of our properties; • To grant Hochschild preemptive rights to participate in certain financing transactions; and • To appoint one individual nominated by Hochschild to our Board of Directors under certain conditions. Additionally, Hochschild has the right to purchase additional shares of our common stock in the market, however, it has agreed to a standstill for two years where it will not exceed 40% total ownership in our company. Certain of the rights discussed above will be forfeited by Hochschild at such time as its percentage ownership in our company decreases below 14.5%. 2 Competitive Business Conditions The exploration for, and the acquisition of gold and silver properties, are subject to intense competition. Due to our limited capital and personnel, we are at a competitive disadvantage compared to other companies with regard to exploration and, if warranted, development. Our present limited funding means that our ability to compete for properties to be explored and developed is limited. We believe that competition for acquiring mineral prospects will continue to be intense in the future. The availability of funds for exploration is sometimes limited, and we may find it difficult to compete with larger and more well-known companies for capital. Our inability to develop our mining properties due to lack of funding, even if warranted, could have a material adverse effect on our operation and financial position. Government Regulations and Permits In connection with mining, milling and exploration activities, we are subject to extensive Mexican federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including laws and regulations relating to protection of air and water quality, hazardous waste management and mine reclamation as well as the protection of endangered or threatened species. The department responsible for environmental protection in Mexico is SEMARNAT, which is similar to the United States Environmental Protection Agency. SEMARNAT has broad authority to shut down and/or levy fines against facilities that do not comply with its environmental regulations or standards. Potential areas of environmental consideration for mining companies, including ours if we are successful in commencing mining operations, include, but are not limited to, acid rock drainage, cyanide containment and handling, contamination of water courses, dust and noise. Prior to the commencement of any mining operations at the El Aguila Project, if any, we have and will continue to secure various regulatory permits from federal, state and local agencies. These governmental and regulatory permits generally govern the processes being used to operate, the stipulations concerning air quality and water issues, and the plans and obligations for reclamation of the properties at the conclusion of operations. Regulations require that an environmental impact statement, known in Mexico as a Manifiestacion de Impacto Ambiental (“MIA”), be prepared by a third-party contractor for submission to SEMARNAT. We have submitted our MIA to SEMARNAT for their review and it has been approved. Studies required to support the MIA include a detailed analysis of these areas, among others: soil, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural resources and socio-economic impacts. Although the regulatory process in Mexico has a public review component, proof of local community support for a project is required to gain final MIA approval. We have received the required local community support. We received a federal permit granting permission to construct a road at the El Aguila Project. We completed construction of this road during 2008. Additionally, during 2008, we received permits allowing us to construct our mill facilities and tailings impoundment facility. Construction of these structures is presently underway. We have applied for and are waiting to receive a permit from SEMARNAT which will allow us to begin open pit mining at the El Aguila Project. We purchased a permitted water well for the mill site at the El Aguila Project. We believe the water provided by this well will be adequate to meet the needs for any mining activity for the foreseeable future. We have obtained, and will obtain at the appropriate time, environmental permits, licenses or approvals required for operations. We are not aware of any material violations of environmental permits, licenses or approvals issued with respect to our operations. 3 Employees We currently have three full-time employees that serve as our executive officers. These individuals devote all of their business time to our affairs. In addition to our executive officers, we employ approximately 25 Mexican nationals, including one who serves as our El Aguila Project Manager, through one of our Mexican subsidiaries. We also engage two significant consultants, one to generally oversee our property and activities in Mexico and one to assist with our administrative and financial affairs. Our consultant in Mexico serves on a full-time basis and our financial consultant provides his services to us as necessary. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, contains forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by several risk factors, including those summarized below: Risks Relating to Our Company Since we have no operating history, investors have no basis to evaluate our ability to operate profitably. We were organized in 1998 but have had no revenue from operations since our inception. Our activities to date have been limited to organizational efforts, raising financing, acquiring mining properties, conducting limited exploration and preparation for commencing production at the El Aguila Project. We have never produced gold or other metals and have received no revenue from operations to date. We face all of the risks commonly encountered by other businesses that lack an established operating history, including the need for additional capital and personnel, and intense competition. There is no assurance that our business plan will be successful. In particular, there can be no assurance that commercial production at our El Aguila Project will be achieved in the time frames estimated, at the rates and costs estimated, if at all. We have no proven or probable reserves, and the probability of an individual prospect having reserves is extremely remote. Therefore, in all likelihood, our properties do not contain any reserves, and any funds spent by us on exploration or development could be lost. We have not established the presence of any proven or probable mineral reserves, as defined by the SEC, at any of our properties. The SEC has defined a “reserve” as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Any mineralized material discovered by us should not be considered proven or probable reserves. In order to demonstrate the existence of proven or probable reserves, it would be necessary for us to continue exploration to demonstrate the existence of sufficient mineralized material with satisfactory continuity and then obtain a positive feasibility study. Exploration is inherently risky, with few properties ultimately proving economically successful. We do not intend to pursue additional exploration for the purpose of establishing proven or probable reserves. Establishing reserves requires a feasibility study demonstrating with reasonable certainty that the deposit can be economically extracted and produced. We have not completed a feasibility study with regard to all or a portion of any of our properties, nor do we intend to perform such feasibility study at this time. Since we have no proven or probable reserves, our investment in mineral properties is not reported as an asset in our financial statements which may have a negative impact on the price of our stock. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and intend to report substantially all exploration and construction expenditures as expenses until we are able to establish proven or probable reserves. If we are able to establish proven or probable reserves, we would report development expenditures as an asset subject to future amortization using the units-of-production method. Since it is uncertain when, if ever, we will establish proven or probable reserves, it is uncertain whether we will ever report these expenditures as an asset. Accordingly, our financial statements report fewer assets and greater expenses than would be the case if we had proven or probable reserves, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. 4 We may require significant additional capital to fund our business plan. We will require additional capital for exploration of one or more of our existing properties or to acquire additional properties. It may be the case that we will require additional capital in addition to the funds already raised in our private placement to fund the completion of construction of the mill and startup of the El Aguila Project. We will be required to hire additional staff. In addition, we may require additional working capital to continue to fund operations pending sale of any gold or other metals. Our ability to obtain necessary funding for these purposes, in turn, depends upon a number of factors, including the status of the national and worldwide economy and the price of gold and other precious metals. Capital markets worldwide have been adversely affected by substantial losses by financial institutions, in turn caused by investments in asset-backed securities. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing, or if we can obtain such financing, such financing may not be on terms that are favorable to us. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration or development and the possible, partial or total loss of our potential interest in our properties. Mineralized material is based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. Unless otherwise indicated, mineralized material presented in our filings with securities regulatory authorities, including the SEC, press releases and other public statements that may be made from time to time are based upon estimates made by our consultants. When making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, we must rely upon such estimated calculations as to the mineralized material on our properties. Until mineralized material is actually mined and processed, it must be considered an estimate only. These estimates are imprecise and depend on geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot assure you that these mineralized material estimates will be accurate or that this mineralized material can be mined or processed profitably. Any material changes in estimates of mineralized material will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and such property’s return on capital. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale tests will be recovered at production scale. The mineralized material estimates have been determined and valued based on assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove inaccurate. Extended declines in market prices for gold and silver may render portions of our mineralized material uneconomic and adversely affect the commercial viability of one or more of our properties and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If we are unable to achieve gold and silver production levels anticipated from our El Aguila Project, our financial condition and results of operation will be adversely affected. We are proceeding with the construction of the El Aguila Project based on estimates of mineralized material identified in our drilling program and estimates of gold and silver recovery based on testwork developed during our scoping study. However, risks related to metallurgy are inherent when working with extractable minerals. Sales of gold and silver, if any, that we realize from future mining activity will be less than anticipated if the mined material does not contain the concentration of gold and silver predicted by our geological exploration. This risk may be increased since we have not sought or obtained a feasibility study or reserve report with regard to any of our properties. If sales of gold and silver are less than anticipated, we may not be able to recover our investment in our property and our operations may be adversely affected. 5 Should we successfully commence mining operations at our El Aguila Project, our ability to remain profitable long-term will depend on our ability to identify, explore, and develop additional properties. Gold and silver properties are wasting assets. They eventually become depleted or uneconomical to continue mining. The acquisition of gold and silver properties and their exploration and development are subject to intense competition. Companies with greater financial resources, larger staff, more experience and more equipment for exploration and development may be in a better position than us to compete for such mineral properties. If we are unable to find, develop, and economically mine new properties, we most likely will not be able to be profitable on a long term basis. The construction of our mine and mill are subject to all of the risks inherent in construction. These risks include potential delays, cost overruns, shortages of material or labor, construction defects, and injuries to persons and property. We have retained Lyntek, Inc. of Denver, Colorado as a consultant to act as our general contractor for construction of the mill. We expect that Lyntek will engage a combination of American and Mexican subcontractors and material suppliers in connection with the project. While we anticipate taking all measures which we deem reasonable and prudent in connection with construction of the mill, there is no assurance that the risks described above will not cause delays or cost overruns in connection with such construction. Any delay would postpone our anticipated receipt of revenue and adversely affect our operations. Cost overruns would likely require that we obtain additional capital in order to commence production. Any of these occurrences may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and the price of our stock. Our operations are subject to permitting requirements which could require us to delay, suspend or terminate our operations. Our operations, including our ongoing exploration drilling program and proposed production plan at the El Aguila Project, require permits from the government. We may be unable to obtain these permits in a timely manner, on reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving these permits, our timetable and business plan for exploration of our property or commercial production will be adversely affected. Our properties are located in Mexico and are subject to changes in political conditions and regulations in that country. Our existing properties are located in Mexico. In the past, Mexico has been subject to political and social instability, changes and uncertainties which may cause changes to existing government regulations affecting mineral exploration and mining activities. Civil or political unrest could disrupt our operations at any time. Our mineral exploration and mining activities in Mexico may be adversely affected in varying degrees by changing governmental regulations relating to the mining industry or shifts in political conditions that increase the costs related to our activities or maintaining our properties. Finally, Mexico’s status as a developing country may make it more difficult for us to obtain required financing for our project. Our business operations may be adversely affected by social and political unrest in Oaxaca. The properties which we are currently exploring for mineralization and the mill we are building are located in the State of Oaxaca, Mexico. Oaxaca City, the capital of the State of Oaxaca, experienced a period of social and political unrest in 2006. Certain civilian groups seeking political reform staged protests and demonstrations in various locations in Oaxaca City, including schools, government offices and major roadways. Although our property is roughly a 90 minute drive from Oaxaca City and the civil disturbances appear to have dissipated, these events may still negatively impact our business operations if Oaxaca experiences another such event. Our exploration and construction program may be interrupted if we are unable to hire qualified personnel or if we are denied access to the site where our property is located. We may also be required to make additional expenditures to provide increased security in order to protect property or personnel located at our exploration and construction sites. Significant delays in exploration or increases in expenditures will likely have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 6 Our ability to continue exploration and extract any minerals that we discover is subject to payment of concession fees and if we fail to make these payments, we may lose our interest in the properties. Mining concessions in Mexico are subject to payment of concession fees to the federal government or lease payments to the owner of the concessions. The payments are based on the size of the property we are exploring. Our failure or inability to pay the concession fees to the government may cause us to lose our interest in one or more of our properties. Our primary exploration target is subject to a lease in favor of a third party which provides for royalties on production. We lease our El Aguila property from a third party. Our lease for the El Aguila property is subject to a net smelter return royalty of 4% where production is sold in the form of gold/silver dorè and 5% where production is sold in concentrate form. The requirement to pay royalties to the owner of the concessions at our El Aguila property will reduce our profitability, if any, if we commence commercial production of gold or other precious metals. Our ability to develop our property is subject to the rights of the Ejido (local inhabitants) to surface use for agricultural purposes. Our ability to mine minerals is subject to making satisfactory arrangements with the Ejido for access and surface disturbances. Ejidos are groups of local inhabitants who were granted rights to conduct agricultural activities on the property. We must negotiate and maintain a satisfactory arrangement with these inhabitants in order to disturb or discontinue their rights to farm. While we have successfully negotiated and signed such agreements to enable us to begin construction at the El Aguila Project, our inability to maintain these agreements could impair or impede our ability to successfully mine the properties. The volatility of the price of gold could adversely affect our future operations and, if warranted, our ability to develop our properties. The potential for profitability of our operations, the value of our properties and our ability to raise funding to conduct continued exploration and development, if warranted, are directly related to the market price of gold and other precious metals. The price of gold may also have a significant influence on the market price of our common stock and the value of our properties. Our decision to put a mine into production and to commit the funds necessary for that purpose must be made long before the first revenue from production would be received. A decrease in the price of gold may prevent our property from being economically mined or result in the writeoff of assets whose value is impaired as a result of lower gold prices. The price of gold is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including inflation, fluctuation of the United States Dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, the sale of gold by central banks, and the political and economic conditions of major gold producing countries throughout the world. During the last five years, the average annual market price of gold has fluctuated between $406 per ounce and $872 per ounce, based on the daily London P.M. fix, as shown in the table below: 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 $406 $445 $604 $696 $872 The volatility of mineral prices represents a substantial risk which no amount of planning or technical expertise can fully eliminate. In the event gold prices decline or remain low for prolonged periods of time, we might be unable to develop our properties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows. Competition in the mining industry is intense, and we have limited financial and personnel resources with which to compete. Competition in the mining industry for desirable properties, investment capital and personnel is intense. Numerous companies headquartered in the United States, Canada and elsewhere throughout the world compete for properties on a global basis. We are an insignificant participant in the gold mining industry due to our limited financial and personnel resources. We presently operate with a limited number of personnel and we anticipate that we will compete with other companies in our industry to hire additional qualified personnel which will be required to successfully operate our mine and mill site. We may be unable to attract the necessary investment capital or personnel to fully explore and if warranted, develop our properties and be unable to acquire other desirable properties. 7 An adequate supply of water may not be available to undertake mining and production at our property. Water rights are owned by the Mexican nation and are administered by a Mexican government agency. This agency has granted water concessions to private parties throughout the area defined as the Oaxaca Hydrologic Basin, however there is no assurance that we will be granted such concessions. We have purchased water rights which we believe will be sufficient for our anticipated production needs. However, we have no assurance these water rights will continue to produce enough water for our activities. Accordingly, we may not have access to the amount of water needed to operate a mine at the property. Since most of our expenses are paid in Mexican pesos, and we anticipate selling any production from our properties in United States dollars, we are subject to adverse changes in currency values that will be difficult to prevent. Our operations in the future could be affected by changes in the value of the Mexican peso against the United States dollar. At the present time, since we have no production, we have no plans or policies to utilize forward sales contracts or currency options to minimize this exposure. If and when these measures are implemented, there is no assurance they will be cost effective or be able to fully offset the effect of any currency fluctuations. Our activities in Mexico are subject to significant environmental regulations, which could raise the cost of doing business. Mining operations are subject to environmental regulation by SEMARNAT, the environmental protection agency of Mexico. Regulations require that an environmental impact statement, known in Mexico as a Manifiestacion de Impacto Ambiental, be prepared by a third party contractor for submission to SEMARNAT. Studies required to support this impact statement include a detailed analysis of many subject areas, including soil, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural resources and socio-economic impacts. We may also be required to submit proof of local community support for a project to obtain final approval. Significant environmental legislation exists in Mexico, including fines and penalties for spills, release of emissions into the air, seepage and other environmental damage. The nature of mineral exploration and production activities involves a high degree of risk and the possibility of uninsured losses. Exploration for and the production of minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risk than many other businesses. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization, and any mineralization discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Our operations are, and any future development or mining operations we may conduct will be, subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for and development of mineral properties, such as, but not limited to: • economically insufficient mineralized material; • fluctuation in production costs that make mining uneconomical; • labor disputes; • unanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems; • environmental hazards; • water conditions; • difficult surface or underground conditions; • industrial accidents; • metallurgic and other processing problems; • mechanical and equipment performance problems; • failure of pit walls or dams; • unusual or unexpected rock formations; • personal injury, fire, flooding, cave-ins and landslides; and • decrease in the value of mineralized material due to lower gold and silver prices. 8 Any of these risks can materially and adversely affect, among other things, the development of properties, production quantities and rates, costs and expenditures, potential revenues and production dates. We currently have no insurance to guard against any of these risks. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not likely to be recovered, we would incur a writedown of our investment in these interests. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are not recoverable. We depend upon a limited number of personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. If any of our current executive employees, our principal consultant in Mexico or our principal financial consultant were to die, become disabled or leave the company, we would be forced to identify and retain individuals to replace them. Messrs. William, David and Jason Reid and Mr. Jorge Sanchez del Toro are our critical employees at this time. Jose Perez Reynoso is our consultant in Mexico who oversees our properties and operations. Frank L. Jennings is a financial consultant who provides services to us as chief financial officer. There is no assurance that we can find suitable individuals to replace them or to add to our employee base if that becomes necessary. We are entirely dependent on these individuals as our critical personnel at this time. We have no life insurance on any individual at this time, and we may be unable to hire a suitable replacement for them on favorable terms, should that become necessary. In the event of a dispute regarding title to our property or any facet of our operations, it will likely be necessary for us to resolve the dispute in Mexico, where we would be faced with unfamiliar laws and procedures. The resolution of disputes in foreign countries can be costly and time consuming, similar to the situation in the United States. However, in a foreign country, we face the additional burden of understanding unfamiliar laws and procedures. We may not be entitled to a jury trial, as we might be in the United States. Further, to litigate in any foreign country, we would be faced with the necessity of hiring lawyers and other professionals who are familiar with the foreign laws. For these reasons, we may incur unforeseen losses if we are forced to resolve a dispute in Mexico or any other foreign country. While we presently believe that we have adequate internal controls over financial reporting, we will be required to evaluate our internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 annually and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have furnished a report by our management on internal controls for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Such a report contains, among other matters, our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal controls are effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting identified by our management. While we believe our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as of the date of this report, there is no assurance that we can retain that control in the future, as our business expands. In addition, our evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls will be subject to audit by our independent registered accountants in the future and there is no assurance that they will agree with our assessment. If we are unable to maintain the effectiveness of our controls, or if our accountants do not agree with our assessment in the future, investors could lose confidence in our financial reports and our stock price may decline. We are not registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our common stock is presently registered with the SEC only under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Because we have not registered our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), we are not required to file information reports with the SEC, although we now voluntarily file certain reports. Additionally, our directors and officers are not required to file reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. As a result, there is less information available to the public regarding our corporate affairs and insider transactions in our common stock than other companies that have registered common stock under the Exchange Act. In the future, we could cease filing information reports with the SEC at any time. 9 The laws of the State of Colorado and our Articles of Incorporation may protect our directors from certain types of lawsuits. The laws of the State of Colorado provide that our directors will not be liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors of the company. Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to indemnify our directors and officers against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law. The exculpation provisions may have the effect of preventing shareholders from recovering damages against our directors caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. The indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors and officers against claims, including claims arising out of their negligence, poor judgment, or other circumstances. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile and as a result you could lose all or part of your investment. In addition to volatility associated with over the counter securities in general, the value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: • Changes in the worldwide price for gold; • Disappointing results from our exploration efforts; • Failure to reach commercial production or producing at rates lower than those targeted; • Failure to meet our revenue or profit goals or operating budget; • Decline in demand for our common stock; • Downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or changes in general market conditions; • Technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; • Investor perception of our industry or our prospects; and • General economic trends. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of securities have been highly volatile. These fluctuations are often unrelated to operating performance and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, investors may be unable to resell their shares at a fair price. Since there is presently a limited trading market for our common stock, purchasers of our common stock may have difficulty selling their shares, should they desire to do so. Due to a number of factors, including the lack of listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange, the trading volume in our common stock is limited. Our trading volume on the OTC Bulletin Board over the past three months has averaged approximately 130,000 shares per day. As a result, the sale of a significant amount of common stock by the selling shareholders may depress the price of our common stock and you may lose all or a portion of your investment. A small number of existing shareholders own a significant amount of our common stock, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 24% of our common stock as of the date of this report. Under our Articles of Incorporation and Colorado law, the vote of a majority of the shares outstanding is generally required to approve most shareholder action. As a result, these individuals may be able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes for the foreseeable future, including votes concerning the election of directors, amendments to our Articles of Incorporation or proposed mergers or other significant corporate transactions. We have no existing agreements or plans for mergers or other corporate transactions that would require a shareholder vote at this time. However, shareholders should be aware that they may have limited ability to influence the outcome of any vote in the future. See “Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” for additional information. 10 Since our common stock is not presently listed on a national securities exchange, trading in our shares will likely be subject to rules governing “penny stocks,” which will impair trading activity in our shares. Our common stock may be subject to rules adopted by the SEC regulating broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Those disclosure rules applicable to penny stocks require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized disclosure document required by the SEC. These rules also require a cooling off period before the transaction can be finalized. These requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in any secondary market for our common stock. Many brokers may be unwilling to engage in transactions in our common stock because of the added disclosure requirements, thereby making it more difficult for stockholders to dispose of their shares. Issuances of our stock in the future could dilute existing shareholders and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have the authority to issue up to 60,000,000 shares of common stock, 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock without stockholder approval. Because our common stock is not currently listed on an exchange, we are not required to solicit shareholder approval prior to issuing large blocks of our stock. These future issuances could be at values substantially below the price paid for our common stock by our current shareholders. In addition, we could issue large blocks of our common stock to fend off unwanted tender offers or hostile takeovers without further stockholder approval. Because we believe that trading in our common stock is limited, the issuance of our stock may have a disproportionately large impact on its price compared to larger companies. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. We have not paid dividends on our common stock to date, and we may not be in a position to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to successfully develop one or more properties and generate earnings from operations. Further, our initial earnings, if any, will likely be retained to finance our operations. Any future dividends will depend upon our earnings, our then-existing financial requirements and other factors, and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 