RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below in addition to the other information presented in this document. Risks Relating to Our Operations We may suffer reduced profits or losses as a result of intense competition. Our business is highly competitive and requires substantial human and capital resources and cutting-edge technical expertise in numerous areas. Large international competitors and local niche companies serve each of the markets in which we compete. Accordingly, we must make constant efforts to remain competitive and convince potential customers of the quality and cost value of our service offerings. We may also need to develop new technologies and services in order to maintain or increase our competitive position, which could result in significant costs. We perform a substantial portion of our business under contracts, often of a long-term nature, with public authorities and industrial and service sector customers. These contracts are often awarded through competitive bidding, at the end of which we may not be retained even though we may have incurred significant expenses in order to prepare the bid. In connection with the performance of certain contracts, we may also be requested by our public or private customers to modify the contractual terms and conditions, regardless of whether such modifications are contemplated in the contract. These modifications may alter the services provided under the contract, required investments or billing terms. Finally, our contracts may not be renewed at the end of their term, which in the case of major contracts may require us to implement costly reorganization measures. When the contract does not provide for the transfer of the related assets and employees to the succeeding operator and/or appropriate compensation to cover our costs of termination, the impact on our results could be substantial. Our business operations in some countries may be subject to additional risks. While our operations are concentrated mainly in Europe and the United States (sales generated outside of these regions represented approximately 16.2% of total Group revenue in 2009), we conduct business in markets around the world. The risks associated with conducting business in some countries, in particular outside of Europe, the United States and Canada, can include the non-payment or slower payment of invoices, which is sometimes aggravated by the absence of legal recourse for non-payment, nationalization, employee-related risks, political and economic instability, increased foreign exchange risk and currency repatriation restrictions. We may not be able to insure or hedge against these risks. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing for our operations in these countries. The setting of public utility fees and their structure may depend on political decisi ons that can impede for several years any increase in fees, such that they no longer cover service costs and appropriate compensation for a private operator. Unfavorable events or circumstances in certain countries may lead us to record exceptional provisions, write-downs and/or impairments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results. Some of our activities could cause damage to persons or property Some of our activities could cause damage to persons (including injury or death), business disruption, and damage to real or personal property. It is our general policy to contractually limit our liability and to take out insurance policies that cover our main accidental and operational risks. However, these precautions may prove to be insufficient, and this could generate significant costs for us. For more information, please refer to the risk factors describing environmental, health and safety compliance, below. 5 Back to Contents We have conducted and may continue to conduct acquisitions, which could have a less favorable impact on our activities and results than anticipated, or which could affect our financial condition. As part of our external growth strategy, we have conducted and continue to carry out acquisitions of varying sizes, some of which are significant at the Group level. These acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: (i) the assumptions underlying the business plans supporting the valuations may prove inaccurate, in particular with respect to synergies and expected commercial demand; (ii) we may fail to successfully integrate the companies acquired and their technologies, products and personnel; (iii) we may fail to retain key employees, customers and suppliers of the companies acquired; (iv) we may be required or wish to terminate pre-existing contractual relationships, which could prove costly and/or be performed at unfavorable terms and conditions; and (v) we may increase our indebtedness to finance these acquisitions. As a result, the expected benefits of comple ted or future acquisitions may not materialize within the time periods or to the extent anticipated, or may impact our financial condition. Our business is affected by variations in weather conditions. Certain of our businesses are subject to seasonal variations. For example, Dalkia generates the bulk of its operating results in the first and fourth quarters of the year, corresponding to periods in which heating is used in Europe, while in the water sector, household water consumption tends to be highest between May and September in the northern hemisphere. Accordingly, these two businesses may be affected by significant deviations from seasonal weather patterns. This risk is offset in certain cases, first by the variable compensation terms included in contracts, and second by the geographical coverage of our businesses. The impact of weather conditions, together with the seasonal nature of the Group’s businesses, may nonetheless affect our results of operations. Our business is subject to CO2 market and emission allowance risks. As an operator of energy installations and, to a lesser extent, as a result of our transportation and landfill site businesses, we are exposed to the inherent risks of the CO2 allowance system introduced by the European Union and the Kyoto Protocol. The rise in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere led certain States and the international community to introduce regulatory provisions to limit further increases. At the international level, the Kyoto Protocol came into force in February 2005. Directive 2003/87/EC of October 13, 2003 implementing the Kyoto Protocol, created an emission allowance trading system within the European Union, known as ETS (Emission Trading Scheme). The resulting system, which was set up in 2005, led to the creation of National Allowance Allocation Plans (NAAP). In France, NAAP 1 was adopted for the period 2005-2007 and was followed by NAAP 2 covering the period 2008-2012. In 2006, the European Union launched a review of directive 2003/87/EC aimed at extending its application scope, strengthening controls and introducing an allowance trading scheme linked with the Kyoto protocol. At the beginning of 2008, the European Commission published a revised draft directive on the CO2 emissions allowance scheme for the period 2013-2020. This led to the adoption by the European parliament, at the end of 2008, of a “climate-energy” package which seeks to ensure compliance within the European Union with climate objectives by 2020: 20% cut in greenhouse gas emissions, 20% improvement in energy efficiency and 20% energy consumption in the European Union produced from renewable sources. This “climate-energy package” includes six new texts: a directive on renewable energies, a directive on the emission trading scheme (ETS), an effort-sharing decision on greenhouse gas emissions (outside ETS), a directive on the capture and storage of CO2, a directive on fuel quality and a directive on reducing CO2 emissions by cars. The risk we face firstly relates to our ability to achieve the emission reductions imposed by the system over a number of years. As such, major and costly investment may be necessary in order to bring our installations into line with allocated allowances. Secondly, our ability to draw value from positions adopted in the management of the corresponding installations represents a separate risk, given the high volatility in allowance prices. While we have adopted an active approach to managing carbon emissions and allocated allowances by implementing appropriate structures and setting up an entity dedicated to the purchase, sale and pricing of the various types of greenhouse gas credits, the potential overrun by us of allocated emission allowances and the resulting purchase of additional allowances could generate significant additional costs compared with those we anticipate. Finally, in 2009, the European Commission clarified the conditions governing the national grant of allowances for phase 3, commencing January 1, 2013. A portion of the allowances (based on the nature of the installation) required by the Group and its subsidiary Dalkia in particular, will have to be obtained through an auction system that could lead to a substantial additional cost. Whether this cost can be passed on to customers and in what amount, have not yet been determined. 6 Back to Contents Our business operations are subject to geopolitical, criminal and terrorist risks. Water is a strategic resource that contributes to public health. Accordingly, our activities must comply with laws and regulations that seek to safeguard water resources, production sites and treatment facilities against criminal or terrorist acts. In the areas of waste management, energy services and public transportation our installations and vehicles may become terrorist targets around the world. In addition, our employees work and travel in countries where the risk of criminal acts, kidnapping or terrorism is either temporarily or permanently high. As a result, despite the preventive and safety measures implemented by us and the insurance policies subscribed, a criminal or terrorist attack could negatively affect our reputation or operating results. Our long-term contracts may limit our capacity to quickly and effectively react to general economic changes. The initial circumstances or conditions under which we enter into a contract may change over time, which may result in adverse economic consequences. Such changes vary in nature and foreseeability. Certain contractual mechanisms may help in addressing such changes and restoring the initial balance of the contract, but they may not be fully effective. The implementation of such mechanisms may be triggered more or less automatically by the occurrence of a given event (for instance, price indexing clauses), or they may call for a procedure or revise or amend the contract with the agreement of both parties or of a third party. Accordingly, we may not be free to adapt our compensation, whether this consists of a price paid by the customer or a fee levied on end users based on an agreed-upon scale, in line with changes in our costs and demand. These constraints on us are exacerbated by th e long-term nature of contracts. In all cases and most particularly with regard to public service management contracts, our actions must remain within the scope of the contract and ensure continuity of service. We cannot terminate unilaterally and suddenly a business that we believe is unprofitable, or change its features, except, under certain circumstances, in the event of proven misconduct by the customer. Certain of our construction operations are performed under fixed-price contracts, containing performance cost and/or completion date commitments. Through Veolia Water Solutions & Technologies, we perform “turnkey” contracts for the design and construction of infrastructure in the water sector, compensated at non-revisable fixed prices. The risks to which we are exposed under this type of contract are generally technical (design and choice of tailored and tried-and-tested technology), operational (site management during the performance, acceptance and warranty phases) and economic (fluctuations in raw material prices or foreign exchange rates). In accordance with standard contractual practice, to the extent possible we seek to place these risks contractually with the customer. We may, however, encounter difficulties over which we have no control, relating, for example, to the complexity of certain infrastructure or construction contingencies, the purchase and ordering of equipment and supplies, or changes in performance schedules. These may lead to non-compliance with contract specifications or generate additional costs and construction delays, triggering, in certain cases, reductions in our revenue or contractual penalties. In certain cases, we must take into consideration customer requests for additional work or integrate existing information or studies provided by the customer that may prove inaccurate or inconsistent, or we may be required to use existing infrastructure with poorly-defined operating characteristics. While contracts generally include clauses providing for the payment of compensation, should events such as those detailed above occur, we are exposed to the risk of not obtaining amounts sufficient to cover the resulting additional costs, or of obtaining such amounts only after the passage of time. The rights of governmental authorities to terminate or modify our contracts unilaterally could have a negative impact on our revenue and profits. Contracts with public authorities make up a significant percentage of our revenue. In numerous countries, including France, public authorities may unilaterally amend or terminate contracts under certain circumstances. While we often are entitled to compensation, this may not be true in all cases, and even when compensation is due, we may not be able to obtain full or timely compensation should a contract be unilaterally terminated by the relevant public authority. 7 Back to Contents We may make significant investments in projects without being able to obtain the required approvals for the project. To engage in business, in most cases we must sign a contract and sometimes obtain, or renew, various permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities. The competition and/or negotiation process that must be followed in order to obtain such contracts is often long, costly, complex and hard to predict. The same applies to the authorization process for activities that may harm the environment, which are often preceded by increasingly complex studies and public investigations. We may invest significant resources in a project or public tender without obtaining the right to engage in the desired business or sufficient compensation or indemnities to cover the cost of our investment. This could arise due to failure to obtain necessary permits or authorizations, or approval from antitrust authorities, or because authorizations are granted contingent on our abandoning certain of our dev elopment projects. This result increases the overall cost of our activities and could potentially, were the cost of failure to become too high, force us to abandon certain projects. Should such situations become more frequent, the scope and profitability of our business could be affected. We must comply with various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which is costly and may, in the event of any failure to comply on our part, cause us to incur liability under these laws and regulations. We incur significant costs of compliance with various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and other expenditures to comply with our environmental, health and safety obligations as well as to manage the sanitary-related aspects of the services we provide. We are continuously required to incur expenditures to ensure that the installations that we operate comply with applicable legal, regulatory and administrative requirements, including specific precautionary and preventative measures, or to advise our customers so that they undertake themselves the necessary compliance work. Each of our businesses, moreover, may become subject to stricter general or specific laws and regulations, and correspondingly incur greater compliance expenditures in the future. If we are unable to recover these expenditures through higher prices, this could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Moreover, the scope of application of environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations is increasing constantly. These laws and regulations now govern all discharges in a natural environment, the collection, transportation and disposal of all types of waste, the rehabilitation of sites at the end of operations, as well as ongoing operations at new or existing facilities. Our operations and activities may cause damages or lead us to incur liability that we might be required to compensate or repair. The increasingly broad laws and regulations expose us to greater risks of liability, in particular environmental liability, including in connection with assets that we no longer own and activities that have been discontinued. For example, the European directive of April 21, 2004 on environmental liability introduces throughout the European Union a framework of environmental liability, for serious environmental damage or threat of damage. This directive was enacted into French law on August 1, 2008 and extends the scope of strict liability for certain serious environmental damage. With regard to the prevention of technological and environmental risks and the conduct of remediation activities, the French law of July 30, 2003 strengthens obligations to restore certain sites at the end of their operating life, making the accrual of provisions mandatory under certain conditions. In addit ion, we may be required to pay fines, repair damage or undertake improvement work, even when we have conducted our activities with all due care and in full compliance with operating permits. Regulatory authorities may also require us to conduct specific investigations and undertake site restoration work for current or future operations or to suspend activities as a result, in particular, of an imminent threat of damage or a change in applicable standards. In addition, we often operate installations that do not belong to us, and therefore do not always have the power to make the investment decisions required to bring these installations into compliance. Where the customer on whose behalf these installations are operated refuses to make the required investments, we may be forced to terminate our operations. Despite this restrictive trend towards increasing regulation and constant efforts to improve risk prevention, accidents or incidents may still occur and we could be the subject of legal action to compensate damage caused to individuals, property or the environment (including the ecosystem). In such instances, these potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance programs, or may be only partially covered. The obligation to take certain measures or compensate for such damage might have a material adverse effect on our activities, our resources, or our profitability. Accordingly, the Group focuses considerable attention on controlling health risks, whether relating to the operation of its installations or resulting from environmental pollution which conventional treatment methods cannot fully correct. In particular, this may concern the development of air- or water-borne bacteri a, which are increasingly well identified, or the exposure of individuals (Company employees or third parties) to chemical and/or dangerous products or substances. 8 Back to Contents Specific measures are required in connection with certain technological risks. Our subsidiaries in France or abroad may, under environmental services outsourcing contracts, perform activities at certain environmentally sensitive sites known as high threshold “Seveso” sites (classified “AS” under the French ICPE, “Installations Classified for the Protection of the Environment” system) or low threshold Seveso sites (or the foreign equivalent), operated by industrial customers (particularly petroleum or chemical industry sites). In these instances, we must manage the provision of services with even greater care, given the more dangerous nature of the products, waste, effluents and emissions to be treated, as well as the close proximity of installations managed by us to customer sites. The regulatory regime governing Seveso facilities applies only within the European Union, but we operate several similar sites outside of this region t hat are often subject to the same level of stringent regulation. In France, the Group operates installations with characteristics similar to those covered by the Seveso regime (only certain of which are classified as “AS” under the ICPE system). We have decided to apply all or part of the Seveso regime at certain of these sites, such as at the hazardous waste incineration facility operated by SARP Industries (Veolia Environmental Services) in Limay in the Yvelines. As a result, we are subject to the same care standards and bear the associated costs as at sites that are covered by the Seveso regime. Currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations may negatively affect our financial results and the price of our shares. We hold assets, earn income and incur expenses and liabilities in a variety of currencies. Our financial statements are presented in euros. Accordingly, when we prepare our financial statements, we must translate our foreign currency-denominated assets, liabilities, income and expense items into euros at applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the euro against these other currencies can affect the value of these items in the financial statements, even if their intrinsic value is unchanged in the original currency. For example, an increase in the value of the euro may result in a decrease in the reported value, in euros, of our investments held in foreign currencies. We are also subject to risks related to fluctuations in interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 48.7% of our outstanding financial debt bore interest at floating rates, after taking into account hedging instruments (see Note 29.1.1 to our consolidated financial statements). Fluctuations in interest rates may also affect our future growth and investment strategy since a rise in interest rates may force Veolia Environnement to finance acquisitions or investments or refinance existing debt at a higher cost in the future. Changes in the prices of energy and other commodities or in the price of recycled materials may reduce our profits The prices of our energy and other commodity supplies are subject to significant fluctuations and represent major operating expenses in our businesses. Although most of our contracts include tariff adjustment provisions that are intended to pass on any changes in the price of supplies, often using price indexing formulas, certain events may prevent us from being fully protected against such increases, such as time lags between fuel price increases and the date when we are authorized to increase prices to cover the additional costs, or a mismatch between the price-increase formula and the cost structure (including taxes). A sustained increase in supply costs and/or related taxes could undermine our operations by increasing costs and reducing profitability, to the extent that we are unable to increase our prices sufficiently to cover such additional costs. In addition, a substantial portion of our Environmental Services Division’s revenue is generated by its sorting-recycling and trading businesses, which are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in the price of recycled raw materials (paper and ferrous and non-ferrous metal). A significant and long-term drop in the price of recycled raw materials, combined with the impact of the current economic crisis on volumes, has affected and could continue to affect our operating results. Changes in certain cogeneration contracts may affect our business We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in electricity prices, primarily through Dalkia, which is a power producer with approximately 7,151 MW of installed power capacity. While a majority of the production installations are operated under purchasing regimes that insulate us from electricity market risks, we have direct market exposure with respect to production in the United Kingdom and Italy (73 MW installed capacity), as well as exposure to local market fluctuations with respect to approximately 2,000 MW of installed capacity, principally in the United States and Central and Eastern Europe. In addition, purchase commitments in France with respect to a total of approximately 736 MW of installed capacity are scheduled to expire between January 2011 and November 2013, increasing our potential risk. While we intend to manage this risk through the use of contracts with co unterparties active in these markets, we cannot assure you that these methods will be effective to protect us from these risks. 9 Back to Contents Risks Relating to Our Shares and ADSs Because preemptive rights may not be available for U.S. persons, the ownership percentages of our U.S. shareholders may be diluted in the event of a capital increase of our Company. Under French law, shareholders have preemptive rights (droits préférentiels de souscription) to subscribe, on a pro rata basis, for cash issuances of new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares. U.S. holders of our shares may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for our shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not required to file registration statements in connection with issues of new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire shares to our shareholders. As a result, we may from time to time issue new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares at a time when no registration statement is in effect. If we undertake future unregistered capital increases, holders of our ADSs and U.S. holders of our shares may be subject to dilution, which may not be fully compensated by the proceeds from the sale of rights. We are permitted to file less information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) than a company incorporated in the United States. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are exempt from rules under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), that impose some disclosure and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Additionally, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our shares. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies with securities registered under the Exchange Act. Accordingly, there may be less information concerning our Company publicly available from time to time than there is for U.S. companies at those times. The ability of holders of our ADSs to influence the governance of our Company may be limited. Holders of our ADSs may not have the same ability to influence corporate governance with respect to our Company as would shareholders in some U.S. companies. For example, the ADS depositary may not receive voting materials in time to ensure that holders of our ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. In addition, the depositary’s liability to holders of our ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the deposit agreement. Finally, except under limited circumstances, our shareholders do not have the power to call shareholders’ meetings. 10 Back to Contents 