Risk Factors You should consider the following risks as well as the other information set forth in this annual report when evaluating an investment in our company. In general, investing in the securities of issuers in emerging market countries, such as Brazil, involves a higher degree of risk than investing in the securities of issuers in the United States. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or those that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Any of the following risks could materially affect us. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. Risks Relating to the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry and Our Company Our fixed-line telecommunications services face increased competition from mobile services providers, other fixed-line service providers and cable television service providers, which may adversely affect our revenues and margins. Our fixed-line telecommunications services in Region I (which consists of 16 Brazil states located in the northeastern and part of the northern and southeastern regions) and Region II (which consists of the Federal District and nine Brazilian states located in the western, central and southern regions) face increasing competition from mobile services as the prices for mobile services decline and approach those of fixed-line services. Based on information available from ANATEL, from December 31, 2010 to April 30, 2013 (the latest date for which such information is available from ANATEL), the number of fixed lines in service in Brazil increased from 42.0 million to 44.5 million. We expect (1) the number of fixed lines in service in Regions I and II to experience slow growth, as certain customers eliminate their fixed-line services in favor of mobile services, and (2) the use of existing fixed lines for making voice calls to decline as customers substitute calls on mobile phones in place of fixed-line calls as a result of promotional mobile rates (such as free calls within a mobile provider’s network). The rate at which the number of fixed lines in service in Brazil may decline depends on many factors beyond our control, such as economic, social, technological and other developments in Brazil. In addition, new fixed lines that we install are expected to be less profitable than existing ones because new fixed-line customers generally have lower average incomes than our existing customers, subscribe to our lower cost service plans and generate fewer chargeable minutes of usage. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our traditional local fixed-line telecommunications services represented 29.4% of our net operating revenue. Because we derive a significant portion of our net operating revenue from our traditional local fixed-line telecommunications services, the reduction in the number of our fixed-lines in service has negatively affected and is likely to continue to negatively affect our net operating revenue and margins. We also compete in the market for local fixed-line services with other fixed-line service providers, primarily with Empresa Brasileira de Telecomunicações – Embratel, or Embratel, and GVT S.A., or GVT. In addition to direct competition for corporate customers Embratel competes with us for residential customers in Regions I and II with services that it provides using the cable infrastructure of its subsidiary, Net Serviços de Comunicação S.A., or Net. Net is a cable television company that is our main competitor in the broadband services market. Embratel is a subsidiary of América Móvil S.A.B. de C.V., or América Móvil, one of the leading telecommunications service providers in Latin America. Under an agreement entered into between Embratel and Net in November 2005, Net offers integrated voice, broadband and pay television services to the Brazilian residential market through a single network infrastructure. In addition, we compete in each of these service regions with smaller companies that have been authorized by ANATEL to provide local fixed-line services. Embratel, GVT and Net are each controlled by multinational companies that may have more significant financial and marketing resources, and greater abilities to access capital on a timely basis and on more favorable terms, than our company. Our loss of a significant number of fixed-line customers would adversely affect our net operating revenue and may adversely affect our results of operations. For a detailed description of our competition in the local fixed-line services market, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Competition—Local Fixed-Line Services.” Our mobile services face strong competition from other mobile services providers, which may adversely affect our revenues. The mobile services market in Brazil is extremely competitive. We face competition from large competitors such as TIM Participações S.A., or TIM, Telefônica Brasil S.A., or Telefônica Brasil, which markets its mobile 7 Table of Contents services under the brand name “Vivo,” and Claro S.A., or Claro. As of November 30, 2013, based on information regarding the total number of subscribers as of that date available from ANATEL we had a market share of 18.6% of the total number of subscribers in Brazil, ranking behind Telefônica Brasil with 28.7%, TIM with 27.0% and Claro with 25.2%, and we captured 10.7% of all net additions of mobile subscribers in Brazil (calculated based on the number of mobile subscribers at the end of a period less the number of mobile subscribers at the beginning of that period) during 2013. Telefônica Brasil, TIM and Claro are each controlled by multinational companies that may have more significant financial and marketing resources, and greater abilities to access capital on a timely basis and on more favorable terms, than our company. Our ability to generate revenues from our mobile services business depends on our ability to increase and retain our customer base. Each additional customer subscribing to our service entails costs, including sales commissions and marketing costs. Recovering these costs depends on our ability to retain such customers. Therefore, high rates of customer churn could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our mobile services business. During 2013, our average customer churn rate in the mobile services segment, representing the number of subscribers whose service was disconnected during each month, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, divided by the number of subscribers at the beginning of such month, was 4.2% per month. We have experienced increased pressure to reduce our rates in response to pricing competition. This pricing competition often takes the form of special promotional packages, which may include, among other things, mobile handset subsidies, traffic usage promotions and incentives for calls made within a mobile services provider’s own network. Competing with the service plans and promotions offered by our competitors may cause an increase in our marketing expenses and customer-acquisition costs, which has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Our inability to compete effectively with these packages could result in our loss of market share and adversely affect our net operating revenue and profitability. For a detailed description of our competition in the mobile services market, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Competition—Mobile Services.” Our long-distance services face significant competition, which may adversely affect our revenues. In Brazil, unlike in the United States and elsewhere, a caller chooses its preferred long-distance carrier for each long-distance call, whether originated from a fixed-line telephone or a mobile handset, by dialing such carrier’s long-distance carrier selection code (Código de Seleção de Prestadora). The long-distance services market in Brazil is highly competitive. Our principal competitors for long-distance services are TIM and Embratel, which are currently offering long-distance services throughout Brazil at rates that are charged on a per call, rather than per minute, basis. We compete with Telefônica Brasil, which is the incumbent fixed-line service provider in Region III. Increased competition from long-distance service providers has resulted in pressure on our long-distance rates and adversely affected our revenue from these services. In addition, the proliferation of new types of service plans, such “same network” subscription plans that offer unlimited long distance calls and data combination plans are impacting the long-distance services market in Brazil. Competition in the long-distance market may require us to increase our marketing expenses and/or provide services at lower rates than those we currently expect to charge for such services. Competition in the domestic market has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our revenues and margins. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Competition—Long-Distance Services.” Data transmission services are not subject to significant regulatory restrictions and, as a result, we face an increasing amount of competition in this business. Competition in data transmission services is not subject to significant regulatory restrictions and, therefore, the market is open to a large number of competitors. Some competitors, such as cable operators, offer telephone and broadband services, which do not require them to use our fixed-line network, thereby allowing them to reach our customers without paying interconnection fees to our company. Increasing competition in data transmission services may lead to rate reductions in this segment, adversely affecting the net operating revenue that we generate from this business. Additionally, increased competition for data transmission customers may require us to increase our marketing expenses and our capital expenditures and may lead to the loss of broadband customers, in each case leading to a decrease in our profitability. For a detailed description of our competition in the data transmission services market, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Competition—Data Transmission Services.” 8 Table of Contents The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent changes in technology. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our ability to implement new technology, and it is difficult to predict how new technology will affect our business. Companies in the telecommunications industry must adapt to rapid and significant technological changes that are usually difficult to anticipate. The mobile telecommunications industry in particular has experienced rapid and significant technological development and frequent improvements in capacity, quality and data-transmission speed. Technological changes may render our equipment, services and technology obsolete or inefficient, which may adversely affect our competitiveness or require us to increase our capital expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position. For example, we have made significant investments in the last three years in connection with the implementation of our UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System), or 3G, services, and we have begun investing in the implementation of our LTE (Long Term Evolution), or 4G, services. It is possible that alternative technologies may be developed that are more advanced than those we currently provide. We may not obtain the expected benefits of our investments if more advanced technologies are adopted by the market. Even if we adopt new technologies in a timely manner as they are developed, the cost of such technology may exceed the benefit to us, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our level of competitiveness. Our industry is highly regulated. Changes in laws and regulations may adversely impact our business. Our industry is highly regulated by ANATEL. ANATEL regulates, among other things, rates, quality of service and universal service goals, as well as competition among telecommunications service providers. Changes in laws and regulations, grants of new concessions, authorizations or licenses or the imposition of additional universal service obligations, among other factors, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, ANATEL has proposed new regulations under which it would modify the productivity discount factor, or Factor X, applicable to the determination of rate increases available to public concessionaires providing fixed-line services. These regulations were submitted for public consultation in July 2011 and the public consultation period ended on September 1, 2011. We expect these new regulations, as they may be modified as a result of ANATEL’s further analysis, to be adopted in 2014. We cannot predict when these regulations will be adopted or whether they will be adopted as proposed. Some of these regulations, if adopted, may have adverse effects on our revenues, costs and expenses, results of operations or financial position. We cannot predict whether ANATEL, the Brazilian Ministry of Communications (Ministério das Comunicações) or the Brazilian government will adopt other telecommunications sector policies in the future or the consequences of such policies on our business and the business of our competitors. Our local fixed-line and domestic long-distance concession agreements are subject to periodic modifications by ANATEL and expire on December 31, 2025. Our bids for new concessions upon the expiration of our existing concessions may not be successful. We provide fixed-line telecommunications services in Regions I and II pursuant to concession agreements with the Brazilian government. Our concession agreements expire on December 31, 2025, and may be amended by the parties every five years prior to the expiration date. In connection with each five year amendment, ANATEL has the right, following public consultations, to impose new terms and conditions in response to changes in technology, competition in the marketplace and domestic and international economic conditions. Our obligations under the concession agreements may be subject to revision in connection with each future amendment. We cannot assure you that any future amendments will not impose requirements on our company that will require us to undertake significant capital expenditures or will not modify the rate-setting procedures applicable to us in a manner that will significantly reduce the net operating revenue that we generate from our fixed-line businesses. If the amendments to our concession agreements have these effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our concession agreements will expire on December 31, 2025. We expect the Brazilian government to offer new concessions in competitive auctions prior to the expiration of our existing concession agreements. We may participate in such auctions, but our existing fixed-line and domestic long-distance concession agreements will not entitle us to preferential treatment in these auctions. If we do not secure concessions for our existing service areas in any future auctions, or if such concessions are on less favorable terms than our current concessions, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our local fixed-line and domestic long-distance concession agreements, as well as our authorizations to provide personal mobile services, contain certain obligations, and our failure to comply with these obligations may result in various fines and penalties imposed on us by ANATEL. Our local fixed-line and domestic long-distance concession agreements contain terms reflecting the General Plan on Universal Service (Plano Geral de Metas de Universalização), the General Plan on Quality Goals (Plano Geral de Metas de Qualidade) and other regulations adopted by ANATEL, the terms of which could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our local fixed-line concession agreements also require us to meet certain network expansion, quality of service and modernization obligations in each of the states in Regions I and II. In the event of noncompliance with ANATEL targets in any one of these states, ANATEL can establish a deadline for achieving the targeted level of such service, impose penalties and, in extreme situations, terminate the applicable concession agreement for noncompliance with its quality and universal service obligations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry—Regulation of Fixed-Line Services.” On an almost weekly basis, we receive inquiries from ANATEL requiring information from us on our compliance with the various service obligations imposed on us by our concession agreements. If we are unable to respond satisfactorily to those inquiries or comply with our service obligations under our concession agreements, ANATEL may commence administrative proceedings in connection with such noncompliance. We have received numerous notices of the commencement of administrative proceedings from ANATEL, mostly due to our inability to achieve certain targets established in the General Plan on Quality Goals and the General Plan on Universal Service, among others. As of December 31, 2013, we had recorded provisions in the amount of R$1,045 million in connection with fines sought to be imposed by ANATEL. Additional fines from ANATEL or fines in excess of the provisioned amount could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry” and “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Civil Claims—Administrative Proceedings.” In addition, our authorizations to provide personal mobile services contain certain obligations requiring us to meet network scope and quality of service targets. If we fail to meet these obligations, we may be fined by ANATEL until we are in full compliance with our obligations and, in extreme circumstances, our authorizations could be revoked by ANATEL. For example, on July 23, 2012, ANATEL temporarily suspended our ability to accept new customers for our mobile services in the States of Amazonas, Amapá, Mato Grosso do Sul, Roraima and Rio Grande do Sul due to ANATEL’s perception of our failure to meet capital investment and quality of service commitments in those states. This suspension lasted for approximately two weeks until we were able to propose new quality of service goals to ANATEL. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation of the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry—Regulation of Mobile Services—Obligations of Personal Mobile Services Providers.” We may be unable to implement our plans to expand and enhance our existing networks in a timely manner or without unanticipated costs, which could hinder or prevent the successful implementation of our business plan and result in revenues and net income being less than expected. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives depends in large part on the successful, timely and cost-effective implementation of our plans to expand and enhance our networks. Factors that could affect this implementation include: • our ability to generate cash flow or to obtain future financing necessary to implement our projects; • delays in the delivery of telecommunications equipment by our vendors; 10 Table of Contents • the failure of the telecommunications equipment supplied by our vendors to comply with the expected capabilities; and • delays resulting from the failure of third-party suppliers or contractors to meet their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner. Although we believe that our cost estimates and implementation schedule are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the actual costs or time required to complete the implementation of these projects will not substantially exceed our current estimates. Any significant cost overrun or delay could hinder or prevent the successful implementation of our business plan and result in revenues and net income being less than expected. We rely on strategic suppliers of equipment, materials and services necessary for our operations and expansion. If these suppliers fail to provide equipment, materials or services to us on a timely basis, we could experience disruptions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We rely on few strategic suppliers of equipment, materials and services, including Nokia Solutions and Networks do Brasil Telecomunicações Ltda., or Nokia Solutions, Alcatel-Lucent Brasil S.A., or Alcatel-Lucent, Telemont Engenharia de Telecomunicações S.A., or Telemont, A.R.M. Engenharia Ltda., or A.R.M. Engenharia, and Huawei do Brasil Telecomunicações Ltda., or Huawei, to provide us with equipment, materials and services that we need in order to expand and to operate our business. There are a limited number of suppliers with the capability of providing the mobile network equipment and fixed-line network platforms that our operations and expansion plans require or the services that we require to maintain our extensive and geographically widespread networks. In addition, because the supply of mobile network equipment and fixed-line network platforms requires detailed supply planning and this equipment is technologically complex, it would be difficult for our company to replace the suppliers of this equipment. Suppliers of cables that we need to extend and maintain our networks may suffer capacity constraints or difficulties in obtaining the raw materials required to manufacture these cables. As a result, we are exposed to risks associated with these suppliers, including restrictions of production capacity for equipment and materials, availability of equipment and materials, delays in delivery of equipment, materials or services, and price increases. If these suppliers or vendors fail to provide equipment, materials or service to us on a timely basis or otherwise in compliance with the terms of our contracts with these suppliers, we could experience disruptions or declines in the quality of our services, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations, and we might be unable to satisfy the requirements contained in our concession and authorization agreements. Our controlling shareholder, TmarPart, has control over us and TmarPart’s interests may not be aligned with your interests. We are controlled by TmarPart which, as of March 6, 2014 directly and indirectly held 56.4% of our outstanding voting shares, excluding treasury shares but including TmarPart’s direct ownership and indirect ownership through its subsidiary Valverde Participações S.A. or Valverde. TmarPart’s shareholders are parties to four shareholders’ agreements governing their equity interests in TmarPart. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders—TmarPart Shareholders’ Agreements.” TmarPart is entitled to appoint a majority of the members of our board of directors, and it has the power to determine the decisions to be taken at our shareholders’ meetings on matters of our management that require the prior authorization of our shareholders, including in respect of related party transactions, corporate restructurings and the date of payment of dividends and other capital distributions. The decisions of TmarPart on these matters may be contrary to the expectations or preferences of holders of our securities, including holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. In order to expand our business, we may take advantage of the consolidation of the telecommunications industry through the acquisition of other telecommunications companies, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may acquire other companies in the telecommunications industry as part of our growth and convergence strategy. A growth strategy that involves acquisitions may present certain risks to our business, results of operations and financial condition, such as: 11 Table of Contents • difficulties in capturing synergies in the integration process, causing the anticipated benefits of the acquisition to be more limited than originally expected; • costs associated with any unforeseen antitrust restrictions; • failure to identify contingencies during the due diligence process; • uncertainty in relation to regulatory approval; and • distractions from our core business to pursue these acquisitions and implement the integration of acquired businesses. If acquisition transactions cause us to incur unforeseen costs due to the factors described above, we may have to dedicate more resources than we had originally planned and eventually face substantial losses that would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we identify suitable acquisition targets, we may be unable to complete acquisitions or obtain necessary financing to do so on satisfactory terms. Paying for acquisitions could require us to incur or assume debt and/or contingent liabilities, amortize certain identifiable intangible assets and incur acquisition-related expenses. In addition, we may be unable to realize all or any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions or expansion in other related businesses because of operational factors or difficulties in integrating the acquisitions or such other related businesses with our existing businesses, including disparate information technology systems, database systems and business processes. We have a substantial amount of existing debt, which could restrict our financing and operating flexibility and have other adverse consequences. As of December 31, 2013, we had total debt of R$35,854 million. We are subject to certain financial covenants that limit our ability to incur additional debt. Our existing level of indebtedness and the requirements and limitations imposed by our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In particular, the terms of some of these debt instruments restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to: • incur additional debt; • grant liens; • pledge assets; • sell or dispose of assets; and • make certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations. Furthermore, some of our debt instruments include financial covenants that require us to maintain certain specified financial ratios. Additionally, the instruments governing a substantial portion of our indebtedness contain cross-default or cross-acceleration clauses and the occurrence of an event of default under one of these instruments could trigger an event of default under other indebtedness or enable the creditors under other indebtedness to accelerate that indebtedness. If we are unable to incur additional debt, we may be unable to invest in our business and make necessary or advisable capital expenditures, which could reduce future net operating revenue and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, cash required to serve our existing indebtedness reduces the amount available to us to make capital expenditures. If our growth in net operating revenue slows or declines in a significant manner, for any reason, we may not be able to continue servicing our debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to renegotiate or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. For 12 Table of Contents more information regarding the debt instruments of our company and our indebtedness as of December 31, 2013, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We are subject to numerous legal and administrative proceedings, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous legal and administrative proceedings. It is difficult to quantify the potential impact of these legal and administrative proceedings. We classify our risk of loss from legal and administrative proceedings as “probable,” “possible” or “remote.” We make provisions for probable losses but do not make provisions for possible and remote losses. As of December 31, 2013, we had provisioned R$5,616 million for probable losses relating to various tax, labor and civil legal and administrative proceedings against us. As of December 31, 2013, we had claims against us of R$17,996 million in tax proceedings, R$877 million in labor proceedings and R$1,038 million in civil proceedings with a risk of loss classified as “possible” for which we had made no provisions. We are not required to disclose or record provisions for proceedings in which our management judges the risk of loss to be remote. However, the amounts involved in certain of the proceedings in which we believe our risk of loss is remote could be substantial. Consequently, our losses could be significantly higher than the amounts for which we have recorded provisions. If we are subject to unfavorable decisions in any legal or administrative proceedings and the losses in those proceedings significantly exceed the amount for which we have provisioned or involve proceedings for which we have made no provision, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Even for the amounts recorded as provisions for probable losses, a judgment against us would have an effect on our cash flow if we are required to pay those amounts. Unfavorable decisions in these legal proceedings may, therefore, reduce our liquidity and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a more detailed description of these proceedings, see “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We are subject to potential liabilities relating to our third-party service providers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to potential liabilities relating to our third-party service providers. Such potential liabilities may involve claims by employees of third-party service providers directly against us as if we were the direct employer of such employees, as well as claims against us for secondary liability for, among other things, occupational hazards, wage parity or overtime pay, in the event that such third-party service providers fail to meet their obligations to their employees. We have not recorded any provisions for such claims, and significant judgments against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to delinquencies of our accounts receivables. If we are unable to limit payment delinquencies by our customers, or if delinquent payments by our customers increase, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business significantly depends on our customers’ ability to pay their bills and comply with their obligations to us. During 2013, we recorded provisions for doubtful accounts in the amount of R$850 million, or 3.0% of our net operating revenue, primarily due to subscribers’ delinquencies. As of December 31, 2013, our provision for doubtful accounts was R$654 million. ANATEL regulations prevent us from implementing certain policies that could have the effect of reducing delinquency, such as service restrictions or limitations on the types of services provided based on a subscriber’s credit record. If we are unable to successfully implement policies to limit subscriber delinquencies or otherwise select our customers based on their credit records, persistent subscriber delinquencies and bad debt will continue to adversely affect our operating and financial results. In addition, if the Brazilian economy declines due to, among other factors, a reduction in the level of economic activity, depreciation of the real, an increase in inflation or an increase in domestic interest rates, a greater portion of 13 Table of Contents our customers may not be able to pay their bills on a timely basis, which would increase our provision for doubtful accounts and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain, upgrade and operate efficiently our accounting, billing, customer service, information technology and management information systems and to rely on the systems of other carriers under co-billing agreements. Sophisticated information and processing systems are vital to our growth and our ability to monitor costs, render monthly invoices for services, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to operate successfully and upgrade our accounting, information and processing systems or that these systems will continue to perform as expected. We have entered into co-billing agreements with each long-distance telecommunications service provider that is interconnected to our networks to include in our invoices the long-distance services rendered by these providers, and they have agreed to include charges owed to us in their invoices. Any failure in our accounting, information and processing systems, or any problems with the execution of invoicing and collection services by other carriers with whom we have co-billing agreements, could impair our ability to collect payments from customers and respond satisfactorily to customer needs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Improper use of our network could adversely affect our costs and results of operations. We may incur costs associated with the unauthorized and fraudulent use of our networks, including administrative and capital costs associated with detecting, monitoring and reducing the incidence of fraud. Fraud also affects interconnection costs and payments to other carriers for non-billable fraudulent roaming. Improper use of our network could also increase our selling expenses if we need to increase our provision for doubtful accounts to reflect amounts we do not believe we can collect for improperly made calls. Any increase in the improper use of our network in the future could materially adversely affect our costs and results of operations. Our operations are dependent upon our networks. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to suffer losses. Failure in our networks, or their backup mechanisms, may result in service delays or interruptions and limit our ability to provide customers with reliable service over our networks. Some of the risks to our networks and infrastructure include (1) physical damage to access lines and long-distance optical cables; (2) power surges or outages; (3) software defects; (4) disruptions beyond our control; (5) breaches of security; and (6) natural disasters. The occurrence of any such event could cause interruptions in service or reduce capacity for customers, either of which could reduce our gross operating revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses. In addition, the occurrence of any such event may subject us to penalties and other sanctions imposed by ANATEL and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The mobile telecommunications industry and participants in this industry, including us, may be harmed by reports suggesting that radio frequency emissions cause health problems and interfere with medical devices. Media and other entities frequently suggest that the electromagnetic emissions from mobile handsets and base stations may cause health problems. If consumers harbor health-related concerns, they may be discouraged from using mobile handsets. These concerns could have an adverse effect on the mobile telecommunications industry and, possibly, expose mobile services providers to litigation. We cannot assure you that further medical research and studies will refute a link between the electromagnetic emissions of mobile handsets and base stations, including on frequency ranges we use to provide mobile services, and these health concerns. Government authorities could increase regulation on electromagnetic emissions of mobile handsets and base stations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The expansion of our network may be affected by these perceived risks if we experience problems in finding new sites, which in turn may delay the expansion and may affect the quality of our services. ANATEL may enact new laws or regulations regarding electromagnetic emissions and exposure may be adopted that could have an adverse effect on our business. 14 Table of Contents Our commitment to meet the obligations of our employees’ pension plans, managed by Fundação Sistel de Seguridade Social and Fundação Atlântico de Seguridade Social may be higher than what is currently anticipated, and therefore, we may be required to make additional contributions of resources to these pension plans or to record liabilities or expenses that are higher than currently recorded. As sponsors of certain private employee pension plans, which are managed by Fundação Sistel de Seguridade Social, or Sistel and Fundação Atlântico de Seguridade Social, or FATL, our subsidiaries cover the actuarial deficits of these pension benefit plans, which provide guaranteed benefits to our retirees and guaranteed future benefits to our current employees at the time of their retirement. As of December 31, 2013, our pension benefit plans had an aggregate deficit of R$643.6 million. Our commitment to meet these deficit obligations may be higher THAN WE currently anticipate, and we may be required to make additional contributions or record liabilities or expenses that are higher than we currently record, which may adversely affect our financial results. For a more detailed description of our pension plans, see “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Employee Benefits—Pension Benefit Plans.” Risks Relating to the Proposed Business Combination The increase in our share capital and the report on the value of PT Portugal, both of which are conditions to our acquisition of PT Portugal, have not been approved by the shareholders of our company, and the approval of the shareholders of Portugal Telecom of the report on the value of PT Portugal, which is a condition to Portugal Telecom’s obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company, has not been obtained. Under Brazilian law, prior to our acquisition of PT Portugal, the holders of our voting share capital must (1) approve the proposal to amend our authorized capital limit in order that we will have sufficient authorized shares to complete the Oi capital increase, (2) ratify the engagement of Banco Santander (Brasil) S.A., or Santander Brasil, to prepare the valuation report concerning the shares of PT Portugal that we will acquire in the Oi capital increase, (3) approve the valuation report prepared by Santander Brasil on the shares of PT Portugal that we will acquire in the Oi capital increase, which we refer to as the PT Assets Valuation Report, and (4) approve the proposed value of the shares of PT Portugal that Portugal Telecom will contribute to our company as payment for shares to be issued to Portugal Telecom in the Oi capital increase. We have called a meeting of our shareholders to be held on March 27, 2014 to consider these matters. Approval of these matters will require the affirmative vote of holders representing a majority of our common shares present or represented at this meeting. On January 8, 2014, the technical body of the CVM (the Superintendência de Relações com Empresas) issued an official opinion stating that the controlling shareholders of our company cannot vote with respect to the approval of the valuation of the shares of PT Portugal in the meeting of our shareholders called to consider these matters. We have appealed this decision to the full board of the CVM. If this appeal is successful, we have been advised that holders of our controlling shareholders intend to vote in favor of the approval of the valuation of the shares of PT Portugal. However, we can offer no assurances that the CVM will rule favorably on this appeal or that the CVM will rule of the appeal prior to the date of the shareholders meeting. Any decision by the CVM may be challenged by our company, our controlling shareholders or our minority shareholders in Brazilian courts. In addition, we can offer no assurances that if the CVM does not rule favorably on this appeal prior to the date of the shareholders meeting, the approval of the PT Assets Valuation Report will be obtained from our shareholders. The failure of our shareholders to approve the matters to be considered at this meeting would prevent our completion of the Oi capital increase. Under the subscription agreement that we entered into with Portugal Telecom on February 19, 2014, or the PT subscription agreement, Portugal Telecom’s obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company is subject to the satisfaction of several conditions, including the approval of the PT Assets Valuation Report by the shareholders of Portugal Telecom. Portugal Telecom has called a meeting of its shareholders to be held on March 27, 2014 to consider this matter. Approval of the PT Assets Valuation Report will require the affirmative vote of holders representing a majority of Portugal Telecom’s ordinary shares present or represented at this meeting. We can offer no assurances that the approval of the valuation of the shares of PT Portugal will be obtained from Portugal Telecom’s shareholders. The failure of Portugal Telecom’s shareholders to approve the valuation of the shares of PT Portugal at this meeting would prevent our completion of the Oi capital increase. The Oi capital increase may not be successful and as a result, we may not meet certain conditions to Portugal Telecom’s obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company. 15 Table of Contents Under the subscription agreement that we entered into with Portugal Telecom on February 19, 2014, or the PT subscription agreement, Portugal Telecom’s obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company is subject to the satisfaction of several conditions, including (1) our obtaining proceeds in the cash portion of the Oi capital increase of at least R$7.0 billion, including proceeds of at least R$2.0 billion through the sale of share capital to Caravelas Fundo de Investimento em Ações, an investment fund managed by Banco BTG Pactual S.A., or Caravelas, and the shareholders of TmarPart, and (2) the settlement of the Oi capital increase on or prior to May 2, 2014. In the event that any of the conditions to Portugal Telecom’s obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company, are not satisfied or waived by October 1, 2014, Portugal Telecom may, in its sole discretion, rescind the PT subscription agreement. In addition, Portugal Telecom has the right to terminate the PT subscription agreement if, after the bookbuilding process in the Oi capital increase, Portugal Telecom is expected to hold an interest of less than 36.6% of the share capital of TmarPart following the completion of the merger of shares, and we have the right to terminate the PT subscription agreement if, after the bookbuilding process in the Oi capital increase, Portugal Telecom is expected to hold an interest of more than 39.6% of the share capital of TmarPart following the completion of the merger of shares. As of the date of this annual report, we have not entered into any agreement with any underwriters of our shares which would obligate them to purchase shares in the Oi capital increase and our registrations with the CVM and the SEC of shares to be offered to the public in the Oi capital increase are not effective. The success of the Oi capital increase when commenced and the price of our shares in the Oi capital increase will depend in substantial part on factors outside of our control, including market conditions and investor demand for our shares. We can offer no assurances that the Oi capital increase will meet the conditions to Portugal Telecom’s obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company or that the termination rights of our company or Portugal Telecom will not be triggered as a result of the bookbuilding process in the Oi capital increase, or that these rights, if triggered will be waived. The merger of shares has not been approved by the boards of directors or shareholders of our company or TmarPart. Under Brazilian law, prior to the submission of the merger of shares to the shareholders of our company and TmarPart, the boards of directors of our company and TmarPart must approve the merger of shares and the Protocol of Merger of Shares and Instrument of Justification (Protocolo e Justificação de Incorporação de Ações) between TmarPart and our company, which we refer to as the Oi merger agreement. Following the approval of the merger of shares and the Oi merger agreement by the boards of directors of our company and TmarPart, the merger of shares and the Oi merger agreement will be submitted to extraordinary general shareholders meetings of our company and TmarPart. Approval of the merger of shares will require (1) the affirmative vote of holders representing a majority of the number of issued and outstanding TmarPart common shares present or represented at a duly convened extraordinary general shareholders’ meeting, and (2) the affirmative vote of holders representing a majority of the total number of issued our common shares. We expect that our board of directors will approve the merger of shares and the Oi merger agreement at a meeting to be convened shortly after the completion of the global offering and we understand that TmarPart’s board of directors will approve the merger of shares and the Oi merger agreement at a meeting to be convened on the same date. However, we can offer no assurances that these approvals will be obtained. In addition, we have been advised that holders of a sufficient number of shares of our company and TmarPart intend to vote in favor of the merger of shares at the extraordinary general shareholders meetings of our companies to approve the merger of shares. However, we can offer no assurances that these approvals will be obtained. The merger has not been approved by the boards of directors or shareholders of TmarPart or Portugal Telecom. Under Brazilian and Portuguese law, prior to the submission of the merger to the shareholders of TmarPart and Portugal Telecom, the boards of directors of TmarPart and Portugal Telecom must approve the merger and the Protocol of Merger and Instrument of Justification (Protocolo e Justificação de Incorporação) between TmarPart and Portugal Telecom, which we refer to as the PT merger agreement. Following the approval of the merger and the PT merger agreement by the boards of directors of TmarPart and Portugal Telecom, the merger and the PT merger agreement will be submitted to extraordinary general shareholders meetings of TmarPart and Portugal Telecom. Approval of the merger will require (1) the affirmative vote of holders representing a majority of the number of issued and outstanding TmarPart common shares present or represented at a duly convened extraordinary general shareholders’ meeting, and (2) the affirmative vote of holders representing two-thirds of the total number of outstanding Portugal Telecom ordinary shares and A shares at an extraordinary general shareholders’ meeting duly 16 Table of Contents convened on first call. We understand that the boards of directors of TmarPart and Portugal Telecom will approve the merger and the PT merger agreement at a meeting to be convened shortly after the completion of the global offering. However, we can offer no assurances that these approvals will be obtained. In addition, we have been advised that holders of a sufficient number of shares of TmarPart intend to vote in favor of the merger at the extraordinary general shareholders meeting of TmarPart to approve the merger. However, we can offer no assurances that this approval will be obtained. Finally, we can offer no assurances that the shareholders of Portugal Telecom will approve the merger. ANATEL may impose significant obligations on TmarPart as conditions to its approval of the merger, and compliance with these obligations could materially and adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of TmarPart following the merger. Under Brazilian regulations, the merger must be submitted to ANATEL to assess its effects on the Brazilian telecommunications services market and to confirm whether the applicable requirements will be met. TmarPart submitted the merger to ANATEL on December 12, 2013. If ANATEL takes any action to impose conditions or performance commitments on TmarPart as part of the approval process for the merger, including conditions that would require TmarPart to undertake significant capital expenditures or would require us to divest any significant part of our assets, that action could materially and adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of TmarPart following the merger and prevent TmarPart from achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger. In addition, under the PT subscription agreement, Portugal Telecom’s obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company is subject to the approval by ANATEL. We can offer no assurances that ANATEL will grant approval of the merger prior to the date specified in the condition to the PT subscription agreement, or at all. If ANATEL does not grant approval of the merger on a timely basis, we can offer no assurances that Portugal Telecom will waive this condition to its obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company. The Portuguese Competition Authority may prohibit the merger if it determines that the merger is capable of significantly impeding effective competition in the Portuguese market. The merger is subject to clearance by the Portuguese Competition Authority, and may only be completed after such clearance is obtained following a non-opposition decision (express or tacit). Portugal Telecom submitted a formal filing to the Portuguese Competition Authority on January 23, 2014. The Portuguese Competition Authority may prohibit the merger if it determines that the merger is capable of significantly impeding effective competition in the Portuguese market. In connection with the Portuguese antitrust review, the Portuguese Competition Authority may ask ANACOM to issue a non-binding opinion on the possible impact of the merger on the Portuguese electronic communications markets in which Portugal Telecom operates. In response to this request, ANACOM may suggest remedies to be adopted by the Portuguese Competition Authority to address effects that ANACOM considers may adversely affect consumers or competition in the Portuguese electronic communications markets. Additionally, as Portugal Telecom is an active participant in the Portuguese television distribution market, the Portuguese Competition Authority may request an opinion from the Portuguese Media Regulation Authority (Entidade Reguladora para a Comunicação Social), or ERC, in connection with the Portuguese antitrust review. We can offer no assurances that the Portuguese Competition Authority will not prohibit the merger or will not impose additional conditions to the approval of the merger. In addition, under the PT subscription agreement, Portugal Telecom’s obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company is subject to the approval by the Portuguese Competition Authority of the merger. We can offer no assurances that the Portuguese Competition Authority will grant approval of the merger prior to the date specified in the condition to the PT subscription agreement, or at all. If the Portuguese Competition Authority does not grant approval of the merger on a timely basis, we can offer no assurances that Portugal Telecom will waive this condition to its obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company. 17 Table of Contents If Portugal Telecom fails to obtain all required consents, approvals and waivers, third parties may terminate or alter existing contracts. Third parties hold pre-emption rights in certain licenses and assets of Portugal Telecom and such rights may be exercisable in connection with the business combination. Portugal Telecom is also a party to joint ventures, license agreements and other agreements and instruments, some of which contain change of control provisions that may be triggered by the business combination. In addition, other agreements of Portugal Telecom may require the payment of fees in connection with a change of control transaction. If Portugal Telecom is unable to obtain any necessary waiver or consent, the operation of change of control provisions or the exercise of pre-emption rights may cause the loss of significant contractual rights and benefits, the termination of joint venture agreements and licensing agreements or may require the renegotiation of financing agreements and/or the payment of significant fees. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to negotiate new agreements on terms as favorable to it as those that Portugal Telecom had, or at all. Under the PT subscription agreement, Portugal Telecom’s obligation to contribute the shares of PT Portugal to our company is subject to the approval of creditors of Portugal Telecom, where necessary to complete the business combination, including waivers of creditors of Portugal Telecom. We can offer no assurances that Portugal Telecom will be able to obtain these approvals or the terms under which Portugal Telecom will obtain these approvals. If Portugal Telecom is unable to obtain these approvals, our ability to complete the business combination will be substantially impaired. In addition, if Portugal Telecom enters into agreements to obtain these approvals that impose material obligations on our company following the contribution of the shares of PT Portugal to our company or the merger, such additional obligations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. The implementation of the business combination may face significant challenges, and the ultimate advantages expected to be derived from this transaction will continue to be subject to a number of factors that are beyond our control. The implementation of the business combination may present significant challenges, including unanticipated costs and delays, shareholder or creditor opposition, regulatory interference and excessive diversion of the attention of the management of our company, TmarPart and Portugal Telecom from the day-to-day management of our or their respective operating activities. If the senior management of our company, TmarPart and Portugal Telecom are unable to efficiently implement the business combination, the businesses of our company, TmarPart and Portugal Telecom could suffer. We cannot guarantee that the management of our company, TmarPart and Portugal Telecom will successfully or cost-effectively implement the business combination. The business combination may not result in the benefits that we, TmarPart and Portugal Telecom seek to achieve. The ultimate advantages that we expect to derive from the business combination, such as the achievement of economies of scale, the maximization of operational synergies, the reduction of operational risks, the optimization of efficient investments, the adoption of best operational practices, the increased liquidity for our shareholders and the shareholders of Portugal Telecom and the diversification of the shareholder bases of our company, TmarPart and Portugal Telecom, will depend upon, among other factors, the future performance of the combined company, market conditions, investor interest in the securities of the combined company, the retention of key employees, the successful integration of the companies, and general economic, political and business conditions in Brazil, Portugal and other countries in which we and Portugal Telecom operate. The integration of our company, TmarPart and Portugal Telecom will be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. We cannot guarantee that the benefits that we, TmarPart and Portugal Telecom seek to achieve through the business combination will be realized. Any failure to integrate the companies or achieve the synergies and other benefits of the business combination could cause significant operating inefficiencies and affect the profitability of TmarPart and the market value of TmarPart common shares and ADSs. Following the completion of the Oi capital increase, we will be subject to the risks inherent in the operations of PT Portugal and we may not have identified all of these risks. 18 Table of Contents Portugal Telecom is a reporting company under the Exchange Act and files periodic reports with the SEC. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Documents on Display” for information on how to obtain reports filed with the SEC. We make no representations with respect to, or assume any responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the information contained in Portugal Telecom’s filings with the SEC. We have entered into the PT subscription agreement largely on the basis of publicly available information regarding Portugal Telecom and the valuation of the shares of PT Portugal prepared by Santander Brasil. We have had limited access to additional information regarding the assets and businesses that will be contributed to PT Portugal and, following our acquisition of PT Portugal may discover undisclosed liabilities or operational issues which could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations or financial condition. Following the completion of the Oi capital increase, we will face risks relating to the operations that we acquire in Portugal, Africa and Asia, many of which are similar to the risks that we currently face in our Brazilian operations. However, as a result of the exposure of PT Portugal to the regulatory regimes of the countries in which it operates, the competitive dynamics in the markets in which it provides services and the agreements that it has entered into with respect to its joint ventures to serve some of these markets, we will face additional risks that are generally described in publicly available information regarding Portugal Telecom and its operations. We cannot assure you that all of the risks relating to these regulatory regimes, markets or joint ventures have been disclosed by Portugal Telecom, that our management of these risks will be successful, or that unanticipated events will not have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations or financial condition. We and Portugal Telecom will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the business combination is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the business combination on employees, suppliers, partners, regulators and customers may have an adverse effect on Oi, Portugal Telecom and TmarPart. These uncertainties could cause suppliers, customers, business partners and others that deal with Oi or Portugal Telecom to defer purchases, the consummation of other transactions or other decisions concerning their respective businesses, or to seek to change existing business relationships with them. In addition, employee retention may be particularly challenging until the business combination is consummated, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles in TmarPart and its consolidated subsidiaries. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration, our business could be harmed. In addition, the merger plan restricts Oi and Portugal Telecom from undertaking major investments and taking other specified actions until the business combination occurs unless otherwise agreed. These restrictions may prevent Oi and Portugal Telecom from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the business combination. The Memorandum of Understanding with respect to the business combination contains exclusivity provisions which prohibit us, Portugal Telecom and certain of our affiliates from soliciting or considering alternative proposals from any third party. The Memorandum of Understanding with respect to the business combination contains exclusivity provisions which prohibit us, Portugal Telecom and certain of our affiliates from soliciting or considering alternative proposals from any third party. As a result, these provisions may prevent our company or Portugal Telecom from receiving or accepting an alternative proposal that could result in greater value to the shareholders of such entity. Holders of Oi common shares, preferred shares and ADSs and Portugal Telecom ordinary shares and ADSs will be offered fixed numbers of TmarPart common shares and ADSs, which involves the risk of market fluctuations. The parties to the merger have advised us that the exchange ratio in the merger will be determined in a manner such that the number of TmarPart common shares received by holders of Portugal Telecom ordinary share is equal to that holder’s pro rata portion of the TmarPart shares owned by Portugal Telecom following the completion of the merger of shares. Because the number of TmarPart shares owned by Portugal Telecom following the completion of the merger of shares will depend on the number TmarPart shares acquired by Portugal Telecom in exchange for the shares of PT Portugal in the global offering, the exchange ratio for the merger will not be determinable until the global offering has closed. 19 Table of Contents Holders of Oi common shares, preferred shares and ADSs, collectively referred to as Oi securities, will receive a fixed number of TmarPart common shares and ADSs, collectively referred to as TmarPart securities, in the merger of shares, rather than a number of TmarPart securities with a fixed market value. Holders of Portugal Telecom ordinary shares and ADSs, collectively referred to as Portugal Telecom securities, will also receive a fixed number of TmarPart common shares and ADSs, collectively referred to as TmarPart securities, in the merger rather than a number of TmarPart securities with a fixed market value. There is no mechanism to adjust the exchange ratios for the merger of shares or the merger in the event that the market price of either the Portugal Telecom securities or the Oi securities increase or decrease significantly relative to the other. Consequently, (1) the market value of the TmarPart securities implied by the market values of the Oi securities and the exchange ratios in the merger of shares, and (2) the market value of the TmarPart securities implied by the market values of the Portugal Telecom securities and the exchange ratio in the merger, may fluctuate significantly from the date of this prospectus supplement, and the exchange ratios for the merger of shares and the merger might not be reflective of market price ratios of Oi securities relative to Portugal Telecom securities at the time of the completion of the merger of shares and the merger. The market price of our securities may be adversely affected by arbitrage activities occurring prior to the completion of the merger of shares and the merger. The market price of our securities may be adversely affected by arbitrage activities occurring prior to the completion of the merger of shares and the merger. These sales, or the prospects of such sales in the future, could adversely affect the market price for, and the ability to sell in the market, our securities before the merger of shares and the merger are completed and TmarPart securities after the merger of shares and the merger are completed. TmarPart may have actual or potential conflicts of interest relating to the merger of shares, and TmarPart’s significant shareholders who negotiated the terms of the business combination may have different interests from your interests as a holder of securities of Oi. TmarPart may have actual or potential conflicts of interest with our shareholders because Portugal Telecom, AGSA and Jereissati Telecom, the controlling shareholders of TmarPart and thus of Oi, exercise voting control over the boards of directors of TmarPart and Oi. While the exchange ratios for the merger of shares were determined in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations in Brazil and the exchange ratio for the merger will be determined in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations in Brazil and Portugal, these ratios may be higher or lower than, from the perspective of value to unaffiliated shareholders, those that could be achieved through negotiations between parties without cross-shareholding relationships. Other terms and conditions of the business combination may also differ from those that could have been achieved through negotiations between parties without cross-shareholder relationships, and our shareholders might have preferred such other terms, including any terms that might have enhanced the financial condition, liquidity or results of operations of Oi or PT Portugal. In addition, the terms of the business combination include the use of funds of Portugal Telecom to subscribe for convertible debentures, the proceeds of which will ultimately be used to repay substantially all of the indebtedness of AG Telecom, LF Tel and TmarPart. This use of funds to subscribe for convertible debentures and to repay substantially all of the indebtedness of these shareholders of Oi might be different than the terms of a transaction that could have been achieved in negotiations between parties without cross-shareholding relationships. As a holder of our securities, you might have preferred different terms or a different use for Portugal Telecom’s funds. Brazilian law does not (1) establish any specific, minimum or maximum exchange ratio, (2) require that the board of directors of TmarPart or Oi formally determine that the terms of the merger of shares or the merger as a whole are “fair,” either procedurally or financially, to its non-controlling shareholders, (3) establish any special committee or otherwise alter its corporate governance rules in connection with the merger of shares or the merger, or (4) impose any prohibition or limitation on the voting rights of the controlling shareholder. Under the Brazilian Corporation Law, because the merger of shares involves a controlling and controlled company, we and TmarPart are required to disclose the ratio of the value of Oi shares and TmarPart shares calculated based on the net worth calculated at market prices (as if the assets of TmarPart and Oi had been sold), based on valuation reports prepared by an independent financial advisor. This exchange ratio is required to be 20 Table of Contents disclosed in order to provide the non-controlling shareholders with a parameter against which to evaluate the proposed merger of shares. The applicable exchange ratio calculated based on the criteria of net worth calculated at market prices will be determined following the completion of the global offering. Although this ratio is required under Brazilian law to be determined with respect to both the common and Oi preferred shares, holders of Oi preferred shares are not entitled to vote with respect to the merger of shares and will not have withdrawal rights if the merger of shares is approved. Although holders of Oi common shares are entitled to vote with respect to the merger of shares, the holders of these shares will not have withdrawal rights if the merger of shares is approved. If the merger of shares is approved, holders of our preferred shares (including in the form of ADSs) will have to give up these securities, which provide certain rights that are not conferred by the TmarPart common shares that they will receive in return. To compensate for not providing certain rights inherent to common shares, such as full voting rights, our preferred shares provide their holders with certain other rights mandated by the Brazilian Corporation Law for this share class that are not conferred by common shares. In the case of our preferred shares, these special preferred shareholder rights include a priority in the payment of a minimum non-cumulative dividend before dividends may be paid on our common shares, equal to the greater of 6.0% per year of their pro rata share of our capital or 3.0% per year of their pro rata share of the book value of our shareholders’ equity. Although the merger of shares, if approved, will allow our preferred shareholders to acquire rights under the Brazilian Corporation Law inherent to common shares as a result of their receipt of TmarPart common shares bearing those rights, they will lose the special rights conferred to them by our preferred shares as a result of their surrender of those shares pursuant to the terms of the transaction. Upon the completion of the merger of shares and the merger, TmarPart will have a substantial amount of existing debt, which could restrict its financing and operating flexibility and have other adverse consequences. As of December 31, 2013, (1) we had R$35,854 million aggregate principal of outstanding debt, (2) Portugal Telecom had €7,371.1 million (R$24,012.2 million) aggregate principal of outstanding debt, and (3) TmarPart had R$3,259.1 million aggregate principal of outstanding debt, excluding the consolidated indebtedness of our company. Although we expect that all of TmarPart’s outstanding debt (other than the consolidated indebtedness of our company) will be repaid prior to the completion of the merger of shares and the merger, we and Portugal Telecom will remain subject to certain financial covenants that will limit our ability to incur additional debt. The level of TmarPart’s consolidated indebtedness after the completion of the merger of shares and the merger and the requirements and limitations imposed by these debt instruments could adversely affect TmarPart’s financial condition or results of operations. In particular, the terms of some of these debt instruments will restrict the ability of TmarPart’s subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • grant liens; • pledge assets; • sell or dispose of assets; and • make certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations. Furthermore, some of these debt instruments include financial covenants that will require Oi to maintain certain specified financial ratios. Additionally, the instruments governing a substantial portion of these debt instruments contain cross-default or cross-acceleration clauses and the occurrence of an event of default under one of these instruments could trigger an event of default under other indebtedness or enable the creditors under other indebtedness to accelerate that indebtedness. If TmarPart or its subsidiaries are unable to incur additional debt after the completion of the merger of shares and the merger, TmarPart may be unable to invest in its businesses and make necessary or advisable capital 21 Table of Contents expenditures, which could reduce future net operating revenue and adversely affect its profitability. In addition, the use of cash to service the indebtedness of TmarPart after the completion of the merger of shares and the merger will reduce the amount available to it to make capital expenditures. If the growth in net operating revenue of the constituent companies in the merger of shares and the merger slows or declines in a significant manner, for any reason, TmarPart may not be able to continue servicing its debt. If TmarPart is unable to meet these debt service obligations or comply with these debt covenants, TmarPart could be forced to renegotiate or refinance this indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. In this circumstance, TmarPart may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. For more information regarding the debt instruments of our company and our subsidiaries, and our indebtedness as of December 31, 2013, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Indebtedness.” The recapitalization of TmarPart will increase its net indebtedness after the completion of the merger of shares and the merger as compared to the sum of the net indebtedness of our company and Portugal Telecom. As part of the business combination, Portugal Telecom will purchase convertible debentures of (1) PASA and Venus RJ Participações S.A., or Venus, both subsidiaries of Andrade Gutierrez S.A., or AGSA, or the AGSA Holding Companies, and (2) EDSP and Sayed RJ Participações S.A., or Sayed, both subsidiaries of Jereissati Telecom S.A., or Jereissati Telecom, or the Jereissati Telecom Holding Companies, for R$4,788 million, the proceeds of which will ultimately be used to repay substantially all of the indebtedness of AG Telecom, LF Tel and TmarPart (excluding the consolidated indebtedness of our company). As of December 31, 2013, AG Telecom had R$650 million aggregate principal of outstanding debt, LF Tel had R$662 million aggregate principal of outstanding debt, and TmarPart had R$3,259 million aggregate principal of outstanding debt (excluding the consolidated indebtedness of our company). As of December 31, 2013, Oi had R$35,854 million aggregate principal of outstanding debt and R$3,016 million of cash and cash equivalents, and Portugal Telecom had €7,371.1 million (R$24,012.2 million) aggregate principal of outstanding debt and €2,573.1 million (R$8,388.3 million) of cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2013, Oi’s net debt (which we define as total indebtedness less cash and cash equivalents) was R$32,838 million and Portugal Telecom’s net debt was R$15,642 million. The use of the proceeds of the Venus and Sayed debentures to repay the indebtedness of AG Telecom, LF Tel and TmarPart will increase TmarPart’s net debt following the completion of the merger of shares and the merger as compared to the sum of the net debt of Portugal Telecom and Oi if Portugal Telecom were not to invest in the Venus and Sayed debentures. As a result of these factors, the risks normally associated with significant amounts of debt, which could have important consequences to you, will be increased. TmarPart’s indebtedness could, among other things: • require TmarPart to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay its obligations, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, operations, capital expenditures, dividend payments, strategic acquisitions, expansion of its operations and other business activities; • increase TmarPart’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit, along with financial and other restrictive covenants in TmarPart’s debt instruments, its ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets; and • place TmarPart at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt. TmarPart may also need to refinance all or a portion of this debt on or before maturity, and it may not be able to do this on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Oi’s ordinary shareholders may have withdrawal rights in connection with the business combination. Brazilian legislation grants the right to withdraw from a company (against reimbursement of shares held) to dissenting shareholders, i.e., shareholders who do not agree with a general shareholders’ meeting resolution that 22 Table of Contents approves the merger of a company’s shares into another company. For this purpose, dissenting shareholders include those that have voted against the resolution, shareholders that did not vote and those who were not present at the relevant meeting. In the case of our shares, whenever withdrawal rights are granted, the reimbursement price is based on our net asset value per share. The Brazilian legislation also sets forth that the right to withdraw does not apply to holder of a class or type of shares that has market liquidity and dispersion. Liquidity is evidenced when the type or class of share, or the certificate that represents it, is part of a general index representing a portfolio of securities in Brazil or abroad, as defined by the CVM. Dispersion is evidenced when the majority shareholder, the controlling corporation or other corporations under their control hold less than half of the issued shares of the applicable type or class. We understand that holders of our common shares do not have withdrawal rights in case of approval of the merger of shares. However, the technical body of the CVM issued an official opinion on the matter stating that it understands that our common shares do have withdrawal rights in this case. We have filed a challenge to this opinion with the CVM, but no final decision has been rendered by the CVM. In addition, any decision by the CVM may be challenged by our company or our minority shareholders in Brazilian courts. In the event we ultimately grant withdrawal rights to holders of our common shares, we may be required to make large cash payments in connection with the merger of shares, and such payments could decrease the cash balances available to TmarPart after the merger of shares and limit its ability to borrow funds or fund capital expenditures, which may adversely affect TmarPart and our shareholders following the merger of shares. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. This involvement, as well as Brazilian political and economic conditions, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. All of our operations and customers are located in Brazil, except for minor operations and the customers of these operations outside of Brazil. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are substantially dependent on Brazil’s economy. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and implement macroeconomic policies have often involved increases in interest rates, wage and price controls, currency devaluations, blocking access to bank accounts, imposing capital controls and limits on imports, among other things. We do not have any control over, and are unable to predict, which measures or policies the Brazilian government may adopt in the future. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in policies or regulations, or by other factors such as: • political instability; • devaluations and other currency fluctuations; • inflation; • price instability; • interest rates; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • energy shortages; • exchange controls; • changes to the regulatory framework governing our industry; 23 Table of Contents • monetary policy; • tax policy; and • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether possible changes in policies or rules affecting these or other factors may contribute to economic uncertainties in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets and securities issued abroad by Brazilian issuers. The President of Brazil has considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions that relate to the Brazilian economy and, consequently, affect the operations and financial performance of businesses such as our company. Although we do not believe that Ms. Rousseff will significantly alter current governmental policies, we can offer no assurances that the policies that may be implemented by the Brazilian federal or state governments will not adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Instability in the international financial system may adversely affect economic growth in Brazil or limit our access to the financial markets and, therefore, negatively impact our business and financial condition. Global economic instability and related instability in the international financial system have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on economic growth in Brazil. Although the United States, Europe and China have shown recent signs of recovery, the recovery of the global economy, which depends on a number of factors, including a return of job growth and investments in the private sector as well as the timing of the exit from government credit easing policies by central banks globally, is not certain. Continued or worsening volatility in the global financial markets could reduce the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. A prolonged slowdown in economic activity in Brazil could reduce demand for some of our services, which would adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of instability in the international financial system, our ability to access the capital markets or the commercial bank lending markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The instability in the international financial system or a prolonged slowdown in economic activity in Brazil could have an impact on the lenders under our existing credit facilities, on our customers or on the ability of our suppliers to meet scheduled deliveries, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. If the instability in the international financial system continues, it could have an adverse effect on the demand for our services and our ability to fund our planned growth. Depreciation of the real may lead to substantial losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies. During the four decades prior to 1999, the Brazilian Central Bank periodically devalued the Brazilian currency. Throughout this period, the Brazilian government implemented various economic plans and used various exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations (such as daily and monthly adjustments), exchange controls, dual exchange rate markets and a floating exchange rate system. Since 1999, exchange rates have been set by the market. The exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar has varied significantly in recent years. For example, the real/U.S. dollar exchange rate increased from R$1.9554 per U.S. dollar on December 31, 2000 to R$3.5333 on December 31, 2002. In 2008, primarily as a result of the international financial crisis, the real depreciated by 31.9% against the U.S. dollar and prompted foreign investors to remove billions of reais from the Brazilian Securities, Commodities and Futures Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA S.A. - Bolsa de Valores Mercadorias e Futuros), which we refer to as the BM&FBOVESPA. The real appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 25.5% during 2009 and by 4.3% during 2010. Since that period, the real has depreciated by 12.6% against the U.S. dollar during 2011, by 8.9% during 2012 and by 14.6% during 2013. A significant amount of our financial liabilities are denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, primarily U.S. dollars and Euros. As of December 31, 2013, R$14,948 million of our financial indebtedness was denominated in a foreign currency. When the real depreciates against foreign currencies, we incur losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, such as our U.S. dollar-denominated long-term debt and foreign 24 Table of Contents currency loans, and we incur gains on our monetary assets denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, as the liabilities and assets are translated into reais. If significant depreciation of the real were to occur when the value of such liabilities significantly exceeds the value of such assets, including any financial instruments entered into for hedging purposes, we could incur significant losses, even if the value of those assets and liabilities has not changed in their original currency. In addition, a significant depreciation in the real could adversely affect our ability to meet certain of our payment obligations. A failure to meet certain of our payment obligations could trigger a default under certain financial covenants in our debt instruments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, we currently have currency swaps and non-deliverable forwards in place for most of our foreign currency debt. If the cost of currency swap instruments increases substantially, we may be unable to maintain our hedge positions, resulting in an increased foreign currency exposure that could in turn lead to substantial foreign exchange losses. A portion of our capital expenditures require us to acquire assets at prices denominated in or linked to foreign currencies, some of which are financed by liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, principally the U.S. dollar. We generally do not hedge against risks related to movements of the real against foreign currencies. To the extent that the value of the real decreases relative to the U.S. dollar, it becomes more costly for us to purchase these assets, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Depreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar could create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil by increasing the price of imported products and requiring recessionary government policies, including tighter monetary policy. On the other hand, appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account and balance of payments, as well as to a dampening of export-driven growth. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our margins and our ability to access foreign financial markets may be reduced. Government measures to curb inflation may have adverse effects on the Brazilian economy, the Brazilian securities market and our business and results of operations. Brazil has, in the past, experienced extremely high rates of inflation, with annual rates of inflation reaching as high as 2,708% in 1993 and 1,093% in 1994. Inflation and some of the Brazilian government’s measures taken in an attempt to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Since the introduction of the real in 1994, Brazil’s inflation rate has been substantially lower than in previous periods. However, actions taken in an effort to control inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future governmental actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities market. More recently, Brazil’s rates of inflation, as measured by the General Market Price Index — Internal Availability (Índice Geral de Preços — Disponibilidade Interna), or IGP-DI, published by Fundação Getúlio Vargas, or FGV, were 9.1% in 2008, (1.4)% in 2009, 11.3% in 2010, 5.0% in 2011, 8.1% in 2012 and 4.8% in 2013. According to the Broad Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Ampliado), or IPCA, published by the Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística), or IBGE, the Brazilian consumer price inflation rates were 4.3% in 2009, 5.9% in 2010, 6.5% in 2011, 5.8% in 2012 and 5.9% in 2013. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our costs may increase and our operating and net margins may decrease. Although ANATEL regulations provide for annual price increases for most of our services, such increases are linked to inflation indices, discounted by increases in our productivity. During periods of rapid increases in inflation, the price increases for our services may not be sufficient to cover our additional costs and we may be adversely affected by the lag in time between the incurrence of increased costs and the receipt of revenues resulting from the annual price increases. Inflationary pressures may also curtail our ability to access foreign financial markets and may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that may adversely affect the overall performance of the Brazilian economy. Fluctuations in interest rates could increase the cost of servicing our debt and negatively affect our overall financial performance. Our financial expenses are affected by changes in the interest rates that apply to our floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2013, we had, among other debt obligations, R$10,295 million of loans and financings and debentures 25 Table of Contents that were subject to the Interbank Certificate of Deposit (Certificado de Depósito Interbancário), or CDI, rate, an interbank rate, R$5,144 million of loans and financings and debentures that were subject to the Long-Term Interest Rate (Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo), or TJLP, a long-term interest rate, R$3,843 million of loans and financings that were subject to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, and R$3,728 million of loans and financings that were subject to the IPCA. The TJLP includes an inflation factor and is determined quarterly by the National Monetary Council (Conselho Monetário Nacional). In particular, the TJLP and the CDI rate have fluctuated significantly in the past in response to the expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, inflation, Brazilian government policies and other factors. For example, the CDI increased from 10.64% per annum as of December 31, 2010 to 10.87% per annum as of December 31, 2011, decreased to 6.90% per annum as of December 31, 2012 and increased to 9.77% per annum as of December 31, 2013. A significant increase in any of these interest rates, particularly the CDI rate, could adversely affect our financial expenses and negatively affect our overall financial performance. The market value of securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced by the perception of risk in Brazil and other countries, which may have a negative effect on the trading price of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs and may restrict our access to international capital markets. Economic and market conditions in other countries, including the United States, the European Union and emerging market countries, may affect to varying degrees the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Although economic conditions in these countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers, the availability of credit in Brazil and the amount of foreign investment in Brazil. Crises in the European Union, the United States and emerging market countries may diminish investor interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including our company. This could materially and adversely affect the market price of our securities, and could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. Restrictions on the movement of capital out of Brazil may impair our ability to service certain debt obligations. Brazilian law provides that whenever there exists, or there is a serious risk of, a material imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments, the Brazilian government may impose restrictions for a limited period of time on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil as well as on the conversion of the real into foreign currencies. The Brazilian government imposed such a restriction on remittances for approximately six months in 1989 and early 1990. The Brazilian government may in the future restrict companies from paying amounts denominated in foreign currency or require that any such payment be made in reais. Many factors could affect the likelihood of the Brazilian government imposing such exchange control restrictions, including the extent of Brazil’s foreign currency reserves, the availability of sufficient foreign exchange on the date a payment is due, the size of Brazil’s debt service burden relative to the economy as a whole, and political constraints to which Brazil may be subject. There can be no certainty that the Brazilian government will not take such measures in the future. A more restrictive policy could increase the cost of servicing, and thereby reduce our ability to pay, our foreign currency-denominated debt obligations and other liabilities. As of December 31, 2013, our foreign-currency denominated debt was R$14,948 million and represented 41.1% of our indebtedness. If we fail to make payments under any of these obligations, we will be in default under those obligations, which could reduce our liquidity as well as the market price of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. In addition, a more restrictive policy could hinder or prevent the Brazilian custodian of the common shares and preferred shares underlying our ADSs or holders who have exchanged our ADSs for the underlying common shares or preferred shares from converting dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of such shares into U.S. dollars and remitting such U.S. dollars abroad. In such an event, the Brazilian custodian for our common shares and preferred shares will hold the reais that it cannot convert for the account of holders of our ADSs who have not been paid. Neither the custodian nor The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary of our ADS programs, or the depositary, will be required to invest the reais or be liable for any interest. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Shares, Preferred Shares and ADSs Holders of our common shares, preferred shares or ADSs may not receive any dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity. According to our by-laws and the Brazilian Corporation Law, we must generally pay our shareholders at least 25% of our annual net income as dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity, as calculated and adjusted under Brazilian GAAP. This adjusted net income may be capitalized, used to absorb losses or otherwise retained as allowed under Brazilian GAAP and may not be available to be paid as dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity. Holders of our common shares or Common ADSs, may not receive any dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity in any given year due to the dividend preference of our preferred shares. Additionally, the Brazilian Corporation Law allows a publicly traded company like ours to suspend the mandatory distribution of dividends in any particular year if our board of directors informs our shareholders that such distributions would be inadvisable in view of our financial condition or cash availability. Holders of our preferred shares or Preferred ADSs may not receive any dividends or interest on shareholders’ equity in any given year if our board of directors makes such a determination or if our operations fail to generate net income. Our preferred shares and Preferred ADSs have limited voting rights and are not entitled to vote to approve corporate transactions, including mergers or consolidations of our company with other companies, or the declaration of dividends. Under the Brazilian Corporation Law and our by-laws, holders of our preferred shares and, consequently, our Preferred ADSs, are not entitled to vote at meetings of our shareholders, except in very limited circumstances. These limited circumstances directly relate to key rights of the holders of preferred shares, such as modifying basic terms of our preferred shares or creating a new class of preferred shares with superior rights. Holders of preferred shares without voting rights are entitled to elect one member and his or her respective alternate to our board of directors and our fiscal council. Holders of our preferred shares and Preferred ADSs are not entitled to vote to approve corporate transactions, including mergers or consolidations of our company with other companies, or the declaration of dividends. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Description of Our Company’s By-laws—Voting Rights.” Holders of our ADSs may find it difficult to exercise their voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Under Brazilian law, only shareholders registered as such in our corporate books may attend our shareholders’ meetings. All common shares and preferred shares underlying our ADSs are registered in the name of the depositary. ADS holders may exercise the voting rights with respect to our common shares and the limited voting rights with respect to our preferred shares represented by our ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreements relating to our ADSs. There are practical limitations upon the ability of the ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional steps involved in communicating with ADS holders. For example, we are required to publish a notice of our shareholders’ meetings in certain newspapers in Brazil. To the extent that holders of our common shares or preferred shares are entitled to vote at a shareholders’ meeting, they will be able to exercise their voting rights by attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of the ADSs may receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the depositary if notify the depositary of the shareholders’ meeting and request the depositary to inform ADS holders of the shareholders’ meeting. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must instruct the depositary on a timely basis. This noticed voting process will take longer for ADS holders than for holders of our common shares or preferred shares. If the depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of our ADSs, the depositary will assume that the holders of those ADSs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADSs, except in limited circumstances. In the circumstances in which holders of our ADSs have voting rights, they may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote our common shares or preferred shares underlying their ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of our ADSs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have no recourse if the common shares or preferred shares underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. 27 Table of Contents Holders of our common shares, preferred shares or ADSs in the United States may not be entitled to the same preemptive rights as Brazilian shareholders have, pursuant to Brazilian legislation, in the subscription of shares resulting from capital increases made by us. Under Brazilian law, if we issue new shares in exchange for cash or assets as part of a capital increase, subject to certain exceptions, we must grant our shareholders preemptive rights at the time of the subscription of shares, corresponding to their respective interest in our share capital, allowing them to maintain their existing shareholding percentage. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of our common shares, preferred shares or ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless (1) we file a registration statement for an offering of shares resulting from the capital increase with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or (2) the offering of shares resulting from the capital increase qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement for an offering of shares with the SEC and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file such a registration statement. We cannot assure the holders of our common shares, preferred shares or ADSs in the United States that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow them to participate in any of our capital increases. As a result, the equity interest of such holders in our company may be diluted. If holders of our ADSs exchange them for common shares or preferred shares, they may risk temporarily losing, or being limited in, the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and certain Brazilian tax advantages. The Brazilian custodian for the common shares and preferred shares underlying our ADSs must obtain an electronic registration number with the Brazilian Central Bank to allow the depositary to remit U.S. dollars abroad. ADS holders benefit from the electronic certificate of foreign capital registration from the Brazilian Central Bank obtained by the custodian for the depositary, which permits it to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the common shares or preferred shares into U.S. dollars and remit the proceeds of such conversion abroad. If holders of our ADSs decide to exchange them for the underlying common shares or preferred shares, they will only be entitled to rely on the custodian’s certificate of registration with the Brazilian Central Bank for five business days after the date of the exchange. Thereafter, they will be unable to remit U.S. dollars abroad unless they obtain a new electronic certificate of foreign capital registration in connection with the common shares or preferred shares, which may result in expenses and may cause delays in receiving distributions. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls.” Also, if holders of our ADSs that exchange our ADSs for our common shares or preferred shares do not qualify under the foreign investment regulations, they will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment of dividends and distribution on, and the proceeds from any sale of, our common shares or preferred shares. See “Item 10. Additional information—Exchange Controls” and “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations.” Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests because, as a Brazilian company, we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations and our shareholders may have fewer and less well-defined rights. Holders of our ADSs are not direct shareholders of our company and are unable to enforce the rights of shareholders under our by-laws and the Brazilian Corporation Law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and the Brazilian Corporation Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the State of Delaware or New York, or elsewhere outside Brazil. Even if a holder of our ADSs surrenders its ADSs and becomes a direct shareholder, its rights as a holder of our common shares or preferred shares under the Brazilian Corporation Law to protect its interests relative to actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well-defined than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets or the markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing or for preserving shareholder interests may be less well-defined 28 Table of Contents and enforced in Brazil than in the United States and certain other countries, which may put holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. Corporate disclosures also may be less complete or informative than those of a public company in the United States or in certain other countries. We are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. We are a foreign private issuer, as defined by the SEC for purposes of the Exchange Act. As a result, for so long as we remain a foreign private issuer, we will be exempt from, and you will not be provided with the benefits of, some of the corporate governance requirements of The New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE. We are permitted to follow practice in Brazil in lieu of the provisions of the NYSE’s corporate governance rules, except that: • we are required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act; • we are required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic companies under NYSE listing standards; • our chief executive officer is obligated to promptly notify the NYSE in writing after any of our executive officers becomes aware of any non-compliance with any applicable provisions of the NYSE corporate governance rules; and • we must submit an executed written affirmation annually to the NYSE. In addition, we must submit an interim written affirmation as and when required by the interim written affirmation form specified by the NYSE. The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. Although Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act generally requires that a listed company have an audit committee of its board of directors composed solely of independent directors, as a foreign private issuer, we are relying on a general exemption from this requirement that is available to us as a result of the features of Brazilian law applicable to our fiscal council. In addition, we are not required to, among other things: • have a majority of independent members of our board of directors; • have a compensation committee or a nominating or corporate governance committee of our board of directors; • have regularly scheduled executive sessions with only non-management directors; or • have at least one executive session of solely independent directors each year. We intend to rely on some or all of these exemptions. As a result, you will not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in serving process on or enforcing judgments against us and other persons. We are organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of the members of our board of directors, our executive officers and our independent registered public accountants reside or are based in Brazil. The vast majority of our assets and those of these other persons are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of our ADSs to effect service of process upon us or these other persons within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or these other persons judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. In addition, because substantially all of our assets and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors or officers may not be collectible within the United States. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain conditions are met, holders may face 29 Table of Contents greater difficulties in protecting their interests in the case of actions by us or our board of directors or executive officers than would shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to the disposition of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. According to Law No. 10,833, enacted on December 29, 2003, if a nonresident of Brazil disposes of assets located in Brazil, the transaction will be subject to taxation in Brazil, even if such disposition occurs outside Brazil or if such disposition is made to another nonresident. A disposition of our ADSs between nonresidents, however, involves the disposal of a non-Brazilian asset and in principle is currently not subject to taxation in Brazil. Nevertheless, in the event that the concept of “disposition of assets” is interpreted to include the disposition between nonresidents of assets located outside Brazil, this tax law could result in the imposition of withholding taxes in the event of a disposition of our ADSs made between nonresidents of Brazil. Due to the fact that as of the date of this annual report Law No. 10,833/2003 has no judicial guidance as to its application, we are unable to predict whether an interpretation applying such tax laws to dispositions of our ADSs between nonresidents could ultimately prevail in Brazilian courts. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations.” The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The BM&FBOVESPA, which is the principal Brazilian stock exchange, had a market capitalization of R$2,414 billion (US$1,031 billion) as of December 31, 2013 and an average daily trading volume of R$7.4 billion (US$3.5 billion) for 2013. In comparison, aggregate market capitalization of the companies (including U.S. and non-U.S. companies) listed on the NYSE was US$20.0 trillion as of December 31, 2013 and the NYSE recorded an average daily trading volume of US$54.7 billion for 2013. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Brazilian securities markets. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 51% of the aggregate market capitalization of the BM&FBOVESPA as of December 31, 2013. The ten most widely traded stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 41% of all shares traded on the BM&FBOVESPA in 2013. These market characteristics may substantially limit the ability of holders of our ADSs to sell the preferred shares underlying our ADSs at a price and at a time when they wish to do so and, as a result, could negatively impact the market price of our ADSs themselves. The imposition of IOF taxes may indirectly influence the price and volatility of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs. Brazilian law imposes the Tax on Foreign Exchange Transactions, or the IOF/Exchange Tax, on the conversion of reais into foreign currency and on the conversion of foreign currency into reais. Brazilian law also imposes the Tax on Transactions Involving Bonds and Securities, or the IOF/Securities Tax, due on transactions involving bonds and securities, including those carried out on a Brazilian stock exchange. In October 2009, the Brazilian government imposed the IOF/Exchange Tax at a rate of 2.0% in connection with inflows of funds related to investments carried out by non-Brazilian investors in the Brazilian financial and capital markets with the objective of slowing the pace of speculative inflows of foreign capital into the Brazilian market and the appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar. The rate of the IOF/Exchange Tax generally applicable to foreign investments in the Brazilian financial and capital markets was later increased to 6.0%. In December 2011, the rate of the IOF/Exchange Tax applicable to several types of investments was reduced back to zero percent. As of the date of this prospectus, all investments in the Brazilian financial and capital markets are subject to the IOF/Exchange Tax at zero percent. In November 2009, the Brazilian government also established that the rate of the IOF/Securities Tax would apply to the transfer of shares with the specific purpose of enabling the issuance of ADSs. In December 2013, the rate of the IOF/Securities Tax applicable to transactions involving the issuance of ADSs was reduced to zero percent. 30 Table of Contents The imposition of these taxes may discourage foreign investment in shares of Brazilian companies, including our company, due to higher transaction costs, and may negatively impact the price and volatility of our ADSs and common shares on the NYSE and the BM&FBOVESPA. 31 Table of Contents 