RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and the market price of the preferred shares and ADSs. Substantially all of our operations and customers are located in Brazil. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are substantially dependent on Brazil’s economy, which in the past has been characterized by frequent and occasionally drastic intervention by the Brazilian government and volatile economic cycles. In addition, our operations, financial condition and the market price of the preferred shares and ADSs may also be adversely affected by changes in government policy or regulations including such factors as: exchange rates and exchange control policies; interest rates; monetary policy; liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; domestic economic growth; 6 Table of Contents changes in the tax regime, including charges applicable to the banking industry; inflation rates; and other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments within and outside of Brazil that may affect the country. The Central Bank determines the Brazilian base interest rate, which we refer to as the “base interest rate”. The base interest rate is the benchmark interest rate payable to holders of securities issued by the federal government and trade at the Sistema Especial de Liquidação e Custódia – SELIC (Special System for Settlement and Custody, known as “SELIC”). In the first half of 2005, the Central Bank increased Brazil’s base interest rate from 17.75% to 19.75% and started to decrease it in the second half of 2005, reaching a rate of 18.0% at December 31, 2005. During the first five months of 2006, Brazil’s base interest rate decreased to 15.75% .. We have no control over, and cannot predict, what measures or policies the Brazilian government may take in response to the current or future situation of the Brazilian economy or how the Brazilian government intervention and government policies will affect the Brazilian economy and, both directly and indirectly, our operations and revenues. Political developments may adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our preferred shares and ADSs. The performance of the Brazilian economy has historically been influenced by the domestic politics. Political crises have, in the past, affected the confidence of investors and of the general public and resulted in economic slowdowns, adversely affecting the market price of the shares of listed companies. The Brazilian Congress is currently conducting investigations into, among other matters, allegations related to political campaign contributions that were unaccounted for or not publicly disclosed, including contributions made to various important members of the current administration. Such allegations have resulted in the replacement of key ministers and have occupied most of Congress’ agenda in 2006. While these developments have not had a material adverse effect on the Brazilian economy, if these investigations were to impact the confidence of the general public and/or of investors resulting in an economic slowdown in Brazil, our results of operations and the price of our preferred shares and our ADSs could be adversely affected. Additionally, presidential elections in Brazil are scheduled to take place in October 2006, and we cannot assure you that the next administration will adopt or maintain economic policies that produce a growing economy. If the administration promotes significant changes in economic policies currently adopted, and such changes result in an economic slowdown in Brazil, our results of operations and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents In addition, market prices of shares of Brazilian companies have been volatile during presidential elections in the past. Uncertainties about the outcome of the election, and speculation about actions of the future government, may influence investors’ perception of risk in Brazil and could have an adverse impact on the market price of the preferred shares and our ADSs. A mismatch of our foreign exchange exposure may lead to substantial losses in our liabilities denominated in, or indexed to, foreign currencies, a reduction in our revenues and a decline in the competitiveness of our loan and leasing operations. The exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar has varied significantly in recent years. For example, the real/U.S. dollar exchange rate decreased from R$2.6544 per U.S. dollar at December 31, 2004 to R$2.3407 at December 31, 2005. In the last two years, the value of the real appreciated by 19.0% against the U.S. dollar, and during the first months of 2006, the value of the real appreciated by 1.7%, to R$2.3005 per U.S. dollar at May 31, 2006. At June 20, 2006, the real/U.S. dollar-exchange rate was R$2.2506 per U.S. dollar. A significant amount of our financial assets and liabilities are denominated in, or indexed to, foreign currencies, primarily U.S. dollars. When the Brazilian currency is devalued, we incur losses on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, such as our U.S. dollar-denominated long-term debt and foreign currency loans, and experience gains on our monetary assets denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies, as the liabilities and assets are translated into reais. If a devaluation occurs when the value of such liabilities significantly exceeds the value of such assets, including any financial instruments entered into for hedging purposes, we could incur significant losses, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. Conversely, when the value of the real appreciates against the U.S. dollar, we incur losses on our monetary assets denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies and experience gains on our liabilities denominated in or indexed to foreign currencies. If the real appreciates and the value of such assets significantly exceeds the value of such liabilities, we could incur significant losses, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. In addition, our lending and leasing operations depend significantly on our capacity to match the cost of funds indexed to the U.S. dollar with the rates charged to our customers. A significant devaluation may affect our ability to attract customers on such terms or to charge rates indexed to the U.S. dollar. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our revenues and the market price of the preferred shares and ADSs may be reduced. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation, with annual rates of inflation (IGP-DI) during the last fifteen years reaching as high as 1,158% in 1992, 2,708% in 1993 and 1,093% in 1994. More recently, Brazil’s rates of inflation were 12.1% in 2004, 1.2% in 2005 and 0.6% for the five months ended May 31, 2006. Inflation itself and governmental measures to combat inflation have in the past had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Inflation, actions taken to combat inflation and public speculation about possible future actions have also contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation in the future, our costs (if not accompanied by an increase in interest rates) may increase, our operating and net margins may decrease and, if investor confidence lags, the price of our preferred shares and ADSs may fall. Inflationary pressures may also curtail our ability to access foreign financial markets and may lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that may adversely affect the overall performance of the Brazilian economy. 8 Table of Contents Adverse changes in Brazilian economic conditions could cause an increase in customer defaults on their outstanding obligations to us, which could materially reduce our earnings. Our banking, leasing, and other businesses are significantly dependent on our customers’ ability to make payments on their loans and to meet their other obligations to us. If the Brazilian economy weakens because of, among other factors: the level of economic activity; devaluation of the real; inflation; or an increase in interest rates. A portion of our customers may not be able to repay loans when due or to meet their debt service requirements, which would increase our past due loan portfolio and could materially reduce our net earnings. Access to international capital markets for Brazilian companies is influenced by the perception of risk in emerging economies, which may hurt our ability to finance our operations. Since the end of 1997, and in particular during the last four years, as a result of economic problems in various emerging market countries, including the economic crisis in Argentina, investors have had a heightened risk perception for investments in emerging markets. As a result, in some periods Brazil has experienced a significant outflow of U.S. dollars and Brazilian companies have faced higher costs for raising funds, both domestically and abroad, and have been impeded from accessing international capital markets. We cannot assure you that international capital markets will remain open to Brazilian companies or that prevailing interest rates in these markets will be advantageous to us. Developments in other emerging markets may adversely affect the market price of the preferred shares and ADSs. The market price of the preferred shares and ADSs may be adversely affected by declines in the international financial markets and world economic conditions. Brazilian securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially those in Latin America, including Argentina, which is one of Brazil’s principal trading partners. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reaction to developments in one country can affect the securities markets and the securities of issuers in other countries, including Brazil. Developments in other countries have also at times adversely affected the market price of our and other Brazilian companies’ preferred shares, as investors’ perceptions of increased risk due to crises in other emerging markets can lead to reduced levels of investment in Brazil and, in addition, may hurt our ability to finance our operations through the international capital markets. If the current economic situation in Argentina and Latin America deteriorates, or if similar developments occur in the international financial markets in the future, the market price of the preferred shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. A recurrence of the Brazilian energy crisis of 2001-2002 could adversely affect our operations. During 2001 and early 2002 Brazil experienced a shortage of capacity to generate electrical energy. The crisis was due in part to the worst drought in sixty years, which caused water levels at hydroelectric 9 Table of Contents plants (which account for 90.0% of the country’s generating capacity) to fall to less than one-third of capacity, and in part to a lack of past investment in power generation. In order to avoid rolling blackouts, the Brazilian government instituted general compulsory measures which were aimed at reducing electricity consumption and which were in effect from June 2001 until February 28, 2002. Under the reduced electricity consumption rules, we were required to reduce our electricity consumption by 20.0% . If the drought recurs, or if there is no additional investment in power generation, Brazil may experience another energy crisis. If so, the Brazilian government may impose similar measures to reduce electricity consumption in the future, which could reduce our customers’ ability to service their debt obligations and therefore adversely affect our operations and net earnings. Risks Relating to Bradesco and the Brazilian Banking Industry The Brazilian government regulates the operations of Brazilian banks and insurance companies, and changes in existing laws and regulations or the imposition of new ones may negatively affect our operations and revenues. Brazilian banks and insurance companies, including our banking and insurance operations, are subject to extensive and continuous regulatory review by the Brazilian government. We have no control over government regulations, which govern all facets of our operations, including the imposition of: minimum capital requirements; compulsory reserve requirements; investment requirements in fixed assets; lending limits and other credit restrictions; and accounting and statistical requirements. The regulatory structure governing Brazilian banks and insurance companies is continuously evolving. Existing laws and regulations could be amended, the manner in which laws and regulations are enforced or interpreted could change, and new laws or regulations could be adopted. Such changes could materially adversely affect our operations and our revenues. Regulatory changes affecting other businesses in which we are engaged, including our broker-dealer and leasing operations, could also have an adverse effect on our operations and our revenues. Changes in base interest rates by the Central Bank may materially adversely affect our results of operations and profit. The Central Bank establishes the base interest rates for the Brazilian banking system. In recent years, the base interest rate has fluctuated, with a high of approximately 45.0% in March 1999 and a low of 15.25% at January 17, 2001. In December 2004, the Central Bank increased the base interest rate 1.25 percentage points, to 17.75% . In May 2005, the Central Bank increased the base interest rate to 19.75% . The Central Bank reduced the base interest rate to 18.0% in December 2005. Changes in the base interest rate may adversely affect our results of operations because: 10 Table of Contents high base interest rates increase our domestic debt expense and may increase the likelihood of customer defaults; and low base interest rates may diminish our interest income. The Central Bank uses changes in the base interest rate as an instrument for its management of the Brazilian economy, including the protection of reserves and capital flows. We have no control over the base interest rates set by the Central Bank or how often they adjust them. The increasingly competitive environment in the Brazilian banking and insurance industries may negatively affect our business prospects. We face significant competition in all of our principal areas of operation from other large Brazilian banks and insurance companies, both public and private. Brazilian regulations raise limited barriers to market entry and do not differentiate between local or foreign commercial and investment banks and insurance companies. As a result, the presence of foreign banks and insurance companies in Brazil, some of which have greater resources than we do, has grown and competition both in the banking and insurance sectors generally and in markets for specific products has increased. The privatization of publicly owned banks has also made the Brazilian markets for banking and other financial services more competitive. The increased competition may negatively affect our business results and prospects by, among other things: limiting our ability to increase our client base and expand our operations; reducing our profit margins on the banking, insurance, leasing and other services and products we offer; and increasing competition for foreign investment opportunities. Furthermore, additional publicly-owned banks and insurance companies might be privatized in the future. The acquisition of a bank or insurance company in a privatization process or otherwise by one of our competitors would generally add to the acquirers’ market share, and as a result we may face increased competition from the acquirer. Brazil’s federal government announced the privatization of Instituto de Resseguros do Brasil S.A. (now IRB–Brasil Resseguros S.A.), known as “IRB,” the state controlled reinsurance company. The privatization has been indefinitely suspended and it is currently not possible to know when, or if, such privatization will take place. If IRB is successfully privatized through the sale of controlling interest to one of our competitors, we could face increasing competition and decreased market share in our insurance operations. Some of our common shares are held by shareholders, whose interests may conflict with other investors’ interests. At December 31, 2005, Cidade de Deus–Companhia Comercial de Participações, which we call “Cidade de Deus Participações,” directly held 48.4% of our common shares and Fundação Bradesco, directly and indirectly, held 45.8% of our common shares. As a result, these shareholders have the power to prevent a change in control of our company, even if a transaction of that nature would be beneficial to our other shareholders. These shareholders also have the power to approve related-party transactions or corporate reorganizations. Under the terms of Fundação Bradesco’s bylaws, all of our directors, members of the Diretoria Executiva and departmental directors (which has been working at Grupo Bradesco for more than 10 years), as well as all directors and officers of Cidade de Deus Participações, serve as members of the board of trustees of Fundação Bradesco. The board of trustees has no other members. For more information on our shareholders, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions–Major Shareholders.” 11 Table of Contents Changes in reserve and compulsory deposit requirements may hurt our profitability. In mid-2002, the Central Bank increased the reserve requirements to 8.0% over demand deposits and time deposits and 10.0% over savings deposits. Such amounts shall be paid in kind by the banks and will bear interest equivalent to the base interest rate for the Brazilian banking system. On December 31st, 2005, the reserve requirements over demand and savings deposits required us to hold a total of R$6.0 billion. On December 31st, 2005, the reserve requirements over time deposits, required us to hold a total amount of R$5.2 billion in Brazilian government securities. In addition, we could be materially adversely affected by changes in compulsory deposit requirements because the monies held as compulsory deposits generally do not yield the same return as our other investments and deposits because: a portion of our compulsory deposits do not bear interest; we are obligated to hold some of our compulsory deposits in Brazilian government securities; and we must use a portion of the deposits to finance a federal housing program, the rural sector and the microcredit program. Reserve requirements have been used by the Central Bank to control liquidity as part of monetary policy in the past, and we have no control over their imposition. We may experience increases in our level of past due loans as our loan portfolio becomes seasoned. Our loan portfolio has grown substantially since 1996. Any corresponding rise in our level of past due loans may lag behind the rate of loan growth, as loans typically do not become due within a short period of time after their origination. Rapid loan growth may also reduce our ratio of past due loans to total loans until growth slows or the portfolio becomes more seasoned. This may result in increases in our loan loss provisions, charge-offs and the ratio of past due loans to total loans. In addition, as a result of the increase in our loan portfolio and the described lag in any corresponding rise in our level of past due loans, our historic loan loss experience may not be indicative of our future loan loss experience. Losses on our investments in marketable securities may have a significant impact on our results of operations and are not predictable. Marketable securities represent a material portion of our assets, and realized investment gains and losses have had and will continue to have a significant impact on our results of operations. The amounts of these gains and losses, which we record when investments in securities are sold, or in certain limited circumstances when the securities we hold are marked to market, may fluctuate considerably from period to period. The level of fluctuation depends, in part, upon the market value of the securities, which in turn may vary considerably, and upon our investment policies. We cannot predict the amount of realized gain or loss for any future period, and variations from period to period have no practical analytical value. Gains on our investment portfolio may not continue to contribute to net income at levels consistent with recent periods or 12 Table of Contents at all, and we may not successfully realize the appreciation now existing in our consolidated investment portfolio or any portion thereof. If a ceiling on bank loan interest rates is enforced, it may have an adverse effect on our interest income and our ability to extend credit. As promulgated in 1988, the Brazilian Constitution established a 12.0% per year ceiling on loan interest rates, including bank loan interest rates. This ceiling was not enforced, however, because the Brazilian Congress did not adopt the necessary implementing legislation. In May 2003, the relevant article was revoked pursuant to a constitutional amendment. Any significant changes in the restrictions on interest rates could have a substantial effect on our financial situation, results of operations and prospects. Our strategy of marketing and expanding Internet banking in Brazil could be badly received or more expensive than lucrative. We have aggressively pursued the use of the Internet for banking and other services to our clients and expect to continue to do so. However, the market for our Internet products is rapidly evolving and is becoming increasingly competitive. We cannot predict whether, or how fast, this market will grow. Moreover, if we fail to adapt effectively to growth and change in the Internet market and technology, our business, competitiveness, or results of operations could be materially affected. The Internet may prove not to be a viable Brazilian commercial marketplace for a number of reasons, including a lack of acceptable security technologies, potentially inadequate development of the necessary infrastructure, or the lack of necessary development and commercialization of performance improvements. To the extent that higher bandwidth Internet access becomes more widely available, we may be required to make significant changes to the design and content of our online network in order to compete effectively. Failure to effectively adapt to these or any other technological developments could adversely affect our business. Our trading activities and derivatives transactions may produce material losses. We engage in the trading of securities, buying debt and equity securities principally to sell them in the near term with the objective of generating profits on short-term differences in price. These investments could expose us to the possibility of material financial losses in the future, as securities are subject to fluctuations in value, which may generate losses. In addition, we enter into derivatives transactions to manage our exposure to interest rate and exchange rate risk. Each such derivatives transaction protects against increases in exchange rates or interest rates or against decreases in such rates, but not both. If we have entered into derivatives transactions to protect against, for example, decreases in the value of the real or in interest rates and the real instead increases in value or interest rates increase, we may incur financial losses. Such losses could adversely materially affect our future net income and therefore the value of the preferred shares and ADSs. For further information about our market risk, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” In the past three years the ratio of our trading securities to our total assets, as measured at December 31 of each year, has been as high as 22.3% and could be greater in the future. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Preferred Shares and ADSs As a holder of ADSs, you will generally not have voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. In accordance with our bylaws and Brazilian corporate law (Brazilian Law No. 6,404/76, as amended by Law No. 9,457/97 and Brazilian Law No. 10,303/01, which we refer to collectively as “Brazilian Corporate Law”), holders of our preferred shares, and thus of our ADSs, are not entitled to vote at our shareholders’ meetings except in limited circumstances. This means, among other things, that you, as a holder of ADSs, are not entitled to vote on corporate transactions, including any proposed merger or consolidation with other companies. In addition, in the limited circumstances where the preferred shareholders are able to vote, holders may exercise voting rights with respect to the preferred shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are no provisions under Brazilian law or under our bylaws that limit ADS holders’ ability to exercise their voting rights through the depositary bank with respect to the underlying preferred shares. However, there are practical limitations upon the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with such holders. For example, our preferred shareholders will either receive notice directly from us or through publication of notice in Brazilian newspapers and will be able to exercise their voting rights by either attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. ADS holders, by comparison, will not receive notice directly from us. Rather, in accordance with the deposit agreement, we will provide the notice to the depositary bank, which will in turn, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to holders of ADSs the notice of such meeting and a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by holders. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must then instruct the depositary bank how to vote the shares represented by their ADSs. Because of this extra procedural step involving the depositary bank, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for ADS holders than for holders of preferred shares. ADSs for which the depositary bank does not receive timely voting instructions will not be voted at any meeting. Except in limited circumstances, ADS holders are not able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ADSs. An active or liquid market for our ADSs may not develop further or be sustained. Prior to the registration of our ADSs in September 2001, there was not a liquid public market for our ADSs. We cannot predict whether an active, liquid public trading market for our ADSs will develop any further or be sustained. Active, liquid trading markets usually result in lower price volatility and in a more efficient execution of purchase and sale orders of investors. Often, the liquidity of a securities market, many times, is due to the volume of the underlying shares that are publicly held by non-related parties. Although the ADSs holders are entitled to withdraw the preferred shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary bank at any time, there is not a public market for our preferred shares in the United States. The preferred shares and ADSs do not entitle you to a fixed or minimum dividend. Holders of our preferred shares and ADSs are not entitled to a fixed or minimum dividend. Pursuant to our bylaws, our preferred shares are entitled to dividends 10.0% higher than those assigned to our common shares. Although under our current bylaws we are generally obligated to pay our shareholders at least 30.0% of our annual net adjusted income, our shareholders, acting at our annual shareholders’ meeting, have the discretion to suspend this mandatory distribution of dividends if the Board of Directors advises them that the payment of the dividend is not compatible with our financial condition. Neither our 14 Table of Contents bylaws nor Brazilian law specifies the circumstances in which a distribution would not be compatible with our financial condition, and our controlling shareholders have never suspended the mandatory distribution of dividends. However, general Brazilian practice is that a company need not pay dividends if such payment would threaten the existence of the company as a going concern or would harm its normal course of operations. As a holder of ADSs you will have fewer and less well-defined shareholders’ rights than in the United States and certain other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and Brazilian Corporate Law, which may differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or in certain other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Under Brazilian Corporate Law, you and the holders of the preferred shares may have fewer and less well-defined rights to protect your interests relative to actions taken by our Board of Directors or the holders of our common shares than under the laws of other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Although Brazilian Corporate Law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets or markets in certain other jurisdictions. In addition, self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may not be as regulated, and regulations may not be as enforced, in Brazil as in the United States, which could potentially disadvantage you as a holder of the preferred shares and ADSs. For example, when compared to Delaware general corporation law, Brazilian Corporate Law and practice has less detailed and well-established rules and judicial precedents relating to the review of management decisions against duty of care and duty of loyalty standards in the context of corporate restructurings, transactions with related parties, and sale-of-business transactions. In addition, shareholders in Brazilian companies must hold 5.0% of the outstanding share capital of a corporation to have standing to bring shareholders’ derivative suits, and shareholders in Brazilian companies ordinarily do not have standing to bring a class action. It may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors and officers. We are organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets, and most or all of the assets of our directors and officers are located in Brazil. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States or other jurisdictions outside of Brazil on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including in any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. If we issue new shares or our shareholders sell shares in the future, the market price of your ADSs may be reduced. Sales of a substantial number of shares, or the belief that this may occur, could decrease the prevailing market price of the preferred shares and ADSs by diluting the shares’ value. If we issue new shares or our existing shareholders sell shares they hold, the market price of the preferred shares and, by extension, of the ADSs, may decrease significantly. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell preferred shares and ADSs in the future at a time and a price that we deem appropriate. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights relating to the preferred shares. You will not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the preferred shares underlying your ADSs unless a registration statement under the United States Securities Act of 1933 is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Similarly, we may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders. The depositary bank will not offer 15 Table of Contents rights to you as a holder of the ADSs unless the rights are either registered under provisions of the Securities Act or are subject to an exemption from the registration requirements. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares or other securities relating to these rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Accordingly, you may receive only the net proceeds from the sale by the depositary bank of the rights received in respect of the shares represented by your ADSs or, if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, they will be allowed to lapse. You may also be unable to participate in rights offerings by us and your holdings may be diluted as a result. If you exchange your ADSs for preferred shares, you risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and Brazilian tax advantages. Brazilian law requires that parties obtain a certificate of registration from the Central Bank in order to be allowed to remit foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, abroad. The Brazilian custodian for the preferred shares will obtain the necessary certificates from the Central Bank for the payment of dividends or other cash distributions relating to the preferred shares or upon the disposition of the preferred shares. If you exchange your ADSs for the underlying preferred shares, however, you may only rely on the custodian’s certificate for five business days from the date of exchange. Thereafter, you must obtain your own certificate of registration or register in accordance with Central Bank and CVM rules, in order to obtain and remit U.S. dollars abroad upon the disposition of the preferred shares or distributions relating to the preferred shares. If you do not obtain a certificate of registration, you may not be able to remit U.S. dollars or other currencies abroad and may be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the preferred shares. For more information, see “Item 10. Additional Information – Exchange Controls.” If you attempt to obtain your own certificate of registration, you may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to the preferred shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. The custodian’s certificate of registration and any certificate of foreign capital registration you obtain may be affected by future legislative changes. Additional restrictions applicable to you, the disposition of the underlying preferred shares or the repatriation of the proceeds from disposition may be imposed in the future. The Brazilian government may impose exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad which may adversely affect your ability to convert funds in reais into other currencies and to remit other currencies abroad. You may be adversely affected by the imposition of restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil and the conversion of Brazilian currency into foreign currencies. The Brazilian government last imposed remittance restrictions for a brief period in 1989 and early 1990. Reimposition of this type of restriction would hinder or prevent your ability to convert dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of preferred shares, as the case may be, into U.S. dollars or other currencies and to remit those funds abroad. We cannot assure you that the government will not take similar measures in the future. Devaluation of the real would reduce the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs. A devaluation of the real would reduce the value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs as measured in U.S. dollars, and could therefore reduce the market price of the preferred shares and ADSs. 16 Table of Contents The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect you should you exchange your ADS for preferred shares. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States and elsewhere, and are not as highly regulated or supervised as some of those other markets. The relatively small market capitalization and illiquidity of the Brazilian equity markets may cause the market price of securities of Brazilian companies, including our ADSs and preferred shares, to fluctuate in both the domestic and international markets, and may substantially limit your ability to sell the preferred shares underlying your ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so. Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains forward-looking statements relating to our business that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections about future events and financial trends affecting our business. Words such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “target,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “forecast,” “guideline,” “should” and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and that may be beyond our control. Further, certain forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: changes in regional, national and international economic and business conditions; inflation; increases in defaults by borrowers and other loan delinquencies; increases in the provision for loan losses; deposit attrition; customer loss or revenue loss; our ability to sustain and improve performance; changes in interest rates which may, among other things, adversely affect our margins; competition in the banking, financial services, credit card services, insurance, asset management and other related industries; the market value of Brazilian government securities; government regulation and tax matters; adverse legal or regulatory disputes or proceedings; and 17 Table of Contents credit and other risks of lending and investment activities. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. In any event, these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Except as may be required by applicable law, we do not undertake any obligation to update them, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. 