Risk Factors You should carefully consider all the information contained in this report and the following risk factors that affect us and our industry in evaluating us and our business. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may also affect our business. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Should any of these risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the market price of our equity shares or ADSs could decline Risks Relating to Our Business We expect to continue to encounter increased competition in each of our markets. The Indian government is rapidly liberalizing the telecommunications industry in India. The Department of Telecommunications (DOT) may license, at its discretion, multiple additional service providers in any service area, with respect to both basic telecommunications services and cellular services. In November 2003, the DOT issued guidelines for Unified Access Licenses, which cover both basic and cellular services within a service area. In the Indian context, “basic telecommunications services” or “basic services” include basic fixed-line access service and a number of other telecommunications services, other than long distance services, cellular service and Internet access. Basic services also include CDMA-based fixed wireless and mobile services (without roaming). font> The market for our basic services is limited to Mumbai and Delhi. Tata Teleservices Limited, Reliance Infocomm Limited and Bharti Tele-Ventures Limited are currently competing with us in those markets for basic services , and in the near future Vodafone Essar will be launching its basic services in India. All of these companies already have significant telecommunications infrastructure in Delhi and Mumbai, including, with respect to Tata Teleservices and Reliance Infocomm, low-cost CDMA mobile and fixed wireless technology. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) issued “Telecommunication Mobile Number Portability Regulations (MNP), 2009” which are likely to be implemented by October 31, 2010 (notwithstanding any further delay from the TRAI) in our license areas and make migra tion between service provides easier, thus increasing competition between the service providers and adding pressure on service providers to retain customers. With approximately 47% of our call units having come from approximately 8% of our access lines in service during the 2010 fiscal year, we are particularly vulnerable to losing market share if these or other operators aggressively target our largest subscribers. Some of our largest customers have already migrated to other basic service operators. We experience significant and growing competition in the market for GSM cellular and Internet services. Many of these service providers enjoy significant penetration in these markets, have established brand names and have more experience operating a cellular network than we have. Cellular operators also face competition from rapidly growing CDMA-based mobile services, which are priced considerably lower than GSM cellular services. Increased competition has kept and will likely continue to keep downward pressure on prices and has required and will likely continue to require us to increase our capital investment to improve and expand our services. These developments, in turn, have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our profitability. See Item 4B. “Business Overview -Competition.” Our business is subject to substantial regulation by the Government. The Indian government regulates our business through licensing of services and service areas, and through price tariffs on our services. The license for fixed-line services is valid until March 31, 2013 and for cellular services is valid until October 2017. The DOT retains the right to revoke our licenses after giving one month’s notice to us. The DOT also retains the right, after giving notice to us, to modify the terms and conditions of our licenses at any time including the related tariffs and fees, and to permit additional licenses or bidding, if it believes it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunications sector. A revocation of any license or a change in significant terms of any license, such as its duration, the amount of license fee payable, the range of services permitted and the scope of exclusivity could limit our ability to operate particular lines of our business or result in increased costs in the form of increased license fees or costs associated with applying for new licenses, or contesting limitations on our licenses. 6 Reductions in telecommunications tariffs in India are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Telecommunications tariffs in India have declined significantly in recent years. The decline in tariffs and the reduction of Access Deficit Charges (ADCs), while resulting in a traffic volume growth spurt, has materially and adversely affected our revenues and net income. Phasing out of ADC completely is likely to further impact revenues and net income. Accordingly, our historical revenue is not indicative of future revenue based on comparable traffic volumes. As the prices for our communications services decrease, then unless we are able to increase volume or offer additional services from which we can derive additional revenue or otherwise reduce our operating expenses, our operating results will decline and our business and financial results will suffer. We have sustained recent financial losses and expect to continue to sustain losses in the near future. We sustained losses from operations of Rs.25,553 million for the year ended March 31, 2010, Rs.1,430 million for the year ending March 31, 2009 and Rs.4,514 million for the first quarter of the year ending March 31, 2011. These losses are attributable to decreases in revenues, and increases in the cost of revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses during those fiscal periods as well as employee benefits. See Item 5A. “Operating Results” in this report. Further, the audited financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2009 were restated. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in this report. We do not plan to pay any dividend for fiscal year 2010 By reason of financial losses sustained for the 2010 fiscal year and continuing losses for the first quarter of the 2011 fiscal year, our Board has recommended that we do not pay any dividend for the 2010 fiscal year. Previously, we had paid dividends at the rate of Rs.1 per equity share for the 2009 fiscal year and of Rs.4 per equity share for the three fiscal years prior thereto. There is no assurance that we will resume payment of dividends on our equity shares in the near future. We need to continue to increase the volume of traffic on our network to generate profits. We must continue to increase the volume of Internet, data, voice and video transmissions on our network in order to realize the anticipated cash flow, operating efficiencies and cost benefits of our network. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers and develop new large-volume customers, we may not be able to substantially increase traffic on our network, which may adversely affect our ability to become profitable. With increased competition from new licensees, we also need to leverage our existing infrastructure to realize better utilization of network, operating efficiencies and cost benefits. Further, certain costs, including costs related to repairs and maintenance, can be of a fixed nature and, in the absence of revenues shall continue to adversely impact our profitability. 160; No assurance can be given that we will achieve the revenue increases and expense reductions to reach profitability in the future. Regulations applicable to public sector enterprises in India may affect our ability to compete effectively. As long as the Indian government’s shareholding in us equals or exceeds 51%, we are deemed to be an Indian government company subject to laws and regulations applicable to public sector enterprises in India. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, personnel matters, procurement, budgeting and capital expenditures and the generation of funds through the issuance of securities. Under our articles of association, the President of India, on behalf of the Indian government, may also issue directives with respect to the conduct of our business and affairs, and certain matters with respect to our business, including the appointment and remuneration of our Chairman-and-Managing Director and the declaration of dividends. None of our shareholders, management or board of directors may take action in respect of any matter reserved for the President of India without his approval. If the President of India does not allow us to make capital expenditures pursuant to our business plan, we may be unable to compete effectively or maintain profitability. Government formalities, including requirements that many of our purchases be made through a competitive bidding process, often cause delays i n our equipment and product procurement; these delays can place us at a disadvantage relative to private sector competitors. 7 The Indian government, our controlling shareholder, also controls and considers the interests of the largest government-owned telecommunications company, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), resulting in significant related party transactions. The Indian government has been evaluating the possibility of a restructuring involving BSNL and us. The Indian government, through the DOT, controls both BSNL and us, holding 56.25% of our outstanding equity shares and 100% of BSNL’s equity shares. The DOT appoints all of our directors. The DOT has the power to determine the outcome of most actions requiring approval of our board of directors or shareholders, including proposed expansion of our basic and cellular services into new areas in which we may compete with BSNL, transactions with BSNL or the assertion of claims against BSNL. When considering many of these matters, the DOT may also take into account the interests of BSNL, the largest government-owned telecommunications company. Failure by the DOT to resolve conflicts involving BSNL and us in an equitable manner could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. font> We have significant amounts due from related parties and our inability to collect them or change the terms of our arrangements with our related parties could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. See Notes 4, 5, 20, 23(c), 23(d) and 26 to our consolidated financial statements and Item 7B. “Related Party Transactions” and Item 4B. “Business Overview - Legal Proceedings” in this report. India’s Ministry of Communications has appointed private sector banks to act as consultants to advise on restructuring BSNL and us. We understand that these consultants have submitted their reports. There have been media reports about consideration of a merger of our companies or the transfer by the DOT of their shares in us to BSNL or to a holding company that will control both BSNL and us or the listing of BSNL shares on a national securities exchange. We cannot assess the likelihood of such a transaction, or the impact of such a transaction on our business or the value of our shares or ADSs. We do not have title to property, and we cannot sell our properties without payment of stamp duties and registering properties in our name. In 1987, the assets and properties of the DOT located in Delhi and Mumbai were transferred to us by an order of the government of India (the “Government”) and a deed of sale was executed by the Government in our favor representing an irrevocable transfer. Indian law generally requires that to perfect the transfer or lease of real property, the transfer should be evidenced by a formal, duly stamped deed of transfer and registered with the Central Land Registrar within a specified period after the execution of the deed of transfer or lease. A formal transfer deed for real property of the DOT, transferred by the Government to us has been executed but has not been registered with the appropriate municipal authorities. The formal transfer deed and physical delivery of possession of the DOT’s non-real estate assets has resulted in the transfer of such non-real estate assets of the DOT to us in Delhi and Mumbai. See Item 4D. “Property, Plant and Equipment-Properties” in this report. Indian law also requires payment of stamp duty (at rates which vary among states) on instruments, which effect transfer of title to real estate or in respect of leases of real estate. We may be liable for stamp duty, if any, upon registration (other than with respect to the DOT properties acquired from the Government as at March 30, 1987). All liabilities for stamp duties in respect of the DOT properties acquired by us from the Government as at March 30, 1987 are to be borne by the Government. We have been advised by our counsel that, although we have valid possession (including the risks and rewards of ownership) and title to all of our property, we need to have certain documents relating to transfer or lease of real property duly registered and stamped to enable us to perfect and thereby acquire marketable titl e to real property in our possession. Accordingly, we cannot sell our properties without payment of stamp duties and registering the properties in our name. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. In certain areas management concluded that there were material weaknesses in our internal controls. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations and standards differ, our business and reputation may be harmed. 8 We are incorporated in India and investors should be aware that there are differences in the governance standards and shareholder rights for a company incorporated in the United States and those applicable to a foreign issuer such as us. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules or regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) rules, and Indian stock market listing regulations create uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in p ractice may evolve over time, as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such corporate governance standards. See Item 16G. “Corporate Governance” in this report. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and external auditor’s independent assessment of the internal controls over financial reporting. We consistently assess the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, remediate any control deficiencies that may be identified, and validate through testing that our controls are functioning as documented. Additional governance standards are expected to be imposed on companies whose securities are listed in the United States in the near future based upon the recent ena ctment of the Dodd-Frank Act. It is also possible that laws in India may be made more stringent with respect to standards of accounting, auditing, public disclosure and corporate governance. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. As of March 31, 2010, management had concluded that our internal controls over periodic reporting were not effective by reason of certain material weaknesses, particularly as to reconciliation of subscriber deposits, accounting for related party transactions and information technology controls. These deficiencies could result in misstatements in reporting in those areas. We had undertaken and completed certain initiatives and remedial action in those areas during the 2010 fiscal year and are continuing such remedial action. See Item 15. “Controls and Procedures” in this report. Our net income would decrease if the Government of India imposes additional taxes or withdraws or reduces tax benefits or other incentives. In recent years, the government of India has introduced taxes on various services provided within India. The Finance Act, 2008 included services provided in relation to information technology software under the ambit of service tax, if it is in the course or furtherance of the business. As a result, service providers are required to pay a tax of 10% (excluding applicable education cess) on the value of services provided to customers. The government of India may expand the services covered under the ambit of this tax to include various services provided by us. This tax, if expanded, could increase our expenses, and could adversely affect our operating margins and revenues. Although currently there are no material pending or threatened claims against us for service taxes, such claim s may be asserted against us in the future. Defending these claims would be expensive and divert our attention and resources from our operations. 9 Risks Relating to Investments in Indian Companies There are risks of political uncertainty in India that could affect our business. During the past decade, the government of India has pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. A coalition government is in power. We cannot assure that these liberalization policies will continue in the future. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well, and also could result in increases in wages. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could disrupt business and economic conditions in I ndia generally and could adversely affect the telecommunications licensing and regulatory framework in which we operate our business. A slowdown in economic growth in India may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our performance and the quality and growth of our business are necessarily dependent on the health of the overall Indian economy. The Indian economy has grown significantly over the past few years. Any future slowdown in the Indian economy, as well as in other countries where we do significant business, could harm our customers and other contractual counterparties, and thus negatively impact us. In addition, the Indian economy is in a state of transition. The share of the services sector of the economy is rising while that of the industrial, manufacturing and agricultural sector is declining. It is difficult to gauge the impact of these fundamental economic changes on our business, however, our revenues would be adversely affected by slowdowns in the IT sector. BlackBerry services in India might be banned which could affect our customers and us. The government of India recently raised concerns about BlackBerry services in India relating to the security of e-mails and messaging transmitted or received on BlackBerry devices. Indian security agencies are unable to intercept and monitor BlackBerry services because of encryption mode of communication and non-availability of BlackBerry servers in India. We are among the nine operators providing BlackBerry services to users in India. Although discussions have been held to deal with the Government’s concerns, any action taken by the Government in the interest of security of India could affect the BlackBerry users and providers, including us, such as our incurring additional costs or sustaining loss of revenues. Recent introduction of Direct Tax Code (DTC) and Goods and Services Tax Act (GST) by the Government might affect our future net income. In August 2010, the government of India introduced major tax changes in Parliament. The Direct Tax Code 2010 (DTC) is proposed to take effect from the fiscal year beginning from April 1, 2012. It would replace much of the current income tax laws. The Government would be able to withdraw tax benefits, reduce incentives, change tax rates, impose additional taxes and otherwise revise the tax structure. The DTC could result in additional tax liabilities and costs, thereby affect our future net income. The Goods and Services Tax (GST) would impose a new indirect tax regime upon coming into operation at the planned April 1, 2011 implementation date. The GST may be defined as a tax on goods and services which is levied at each point of sale or provision of service, in which at the time of sale of goods or provision of service the seller or service provider may claim the input credit of tax which it has paid while purchasing the goods or procuring the services. The GST would replace the sales tax and similar taxes. The implementation of the GST could result in additional costs to us and also could adversely impact our future revenues. Financial instability in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia, could adversely affect the Indian economy and cause our business and the market for our equity shares and ADSs to suffer. The recent global economic and credit conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia have affected the Indian economy in varying degrees. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can have adverse effects on the securities of companies in other countries, including India. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of other emerging markets may cause increased volatility in Indian financial markets and, indirectly, in the Indian economy in general. Any worldwide financial instability could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and ADSs, and upon the exchange rates for the Indian rupee. 10 Regional conflicts in South Asia, social conflict, terrorism and related military activity may adversely affect the Indian economy or world economic activity, either of which could adversely affect our business and the prices of our equity shares and ADSs. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks in November 2008 and July 2006 in Mumbai, and other acts of violence or war in India and surrounding area have the potential to have a direct impact on our business, as the majority of our revenues are derived from customers located in Delhi and Mumbai. Furthermore, such terrorist attacks, threats or war in India could cause a disruption in the delivery of our services to our customers, and could have a negative impact on our business, personnel, assets and results of operations, and could cause our customers or potential customers to delay or postpone the purchase or use of our services, as well as create a greater perception that investments in Indian companies involve higher degrees of risk. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on the market for securities of Indian companies , including our equity shares and our ADSs. The markets in which we operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters. Some of the regions that we operate in are prone to earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties and suffer significant financial losses. Further, in the event of a natural disaster, we may also incur costs in redeploying personnel and property. In addition if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which a substantial number of our customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur sustained business interruption which may materially impair our ability to service such customers. Risks Relating to the ADSs and Equity Shares Ability to withdraw equity shares from the depositary facility is uncertain and may be subject to delays. India’s restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian companies limit the number of shares that may be owned by foreign investors and generally require government approval for foreign ownership. The maximum foreign ownership permitted in MTNL without prior governmental approval is 49% under the sectoral caps currently provided for by the government of India and the Reserve Bank of India. Investors who withdraw equity shares from the depositary facility will be subject to Indian regulatory restrictions on foreign ownership of equity shares upon withdrawal. It is possible that this withdrawal process may be subject to delays. See Item 10. “Additional Information - Indian Foreign Exchange Controls and Securities Regulation” in this report. Ability to sell in India any equity shares withdrawn from the depositary facility may be subject to delays. Persons seeking to sell in India any equity shares withdrawn upon surrender of an ADS will require Reserve Bank of India approval for each such transaction. Because of possible delays in obtaining necessary approvals, holders of equity shares may be prevented from realizing gains during periods of price increases or limiting losses during periods of price declines. Ability to withdraw and redeposit shares in the depositary facility is limited, which may cause our equity shares to trade at a discount or premium to the market price of our ADSs. Because of Indian legal restrictions, despite recent relaxations, the supply of ADSs may be limited. Under procedures recently adopted by the Reserve Bank of India, the depositary is permitted to accept deposits of our outstanding equity shares and deliver ADSs representing the deposited equity shares to the extent, and limited to the number, of ADSs that have previously been converted into underlying equity shares. Under these new procedures, if you elect to surrender your ADSs and receive equity shares, you may be unable to re-deposit those outstanding equity shares with our depositary and receive ADSs because the number of new ADSs that can be issued cannot, at any time, exceed the number of ADSs converted into underlying equity shares or result in foreign equity in MTNL exceeding 49%. This may rest rict your ability to re-convert the equity shares obtained by you to ADSs. Also, investors who exchange ADSs for the underlying equity shares and are not holders of record will be required to declare to us details of the holder of record. Any investor who fails to comply may be liable for a fine of up to Rs.1,000 for each day such failure continues. See Item 10. “Additional Information—Indian Foreign Exchange Controls and Securities Regulations” in this report. 11 The restrictions described above may cause our equity shares to trade at a discount or premium to our ADSs. Conditions in the Indian securities market may affect the price or liquidity of the equity shares and the ADSs. The Indian securities markets are generally smaller and more volatile than securities markets in the world’s major financial centers. Indian stock exchanges have also experienced problems that have affected the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies. These problems have included temporary exchange closures, the suspension of stock exchange administration, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Further, from time to time, disputes have occurred between listed companies and stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which, in some cases, may have had a negative effect on market sentiment. Similar problems could happen in the future and, if they do, they could affect the market price and liquidity of our equity shares and our ADSs. Because there may be less company information available in Indian securities markets than securities markets in more developed countries, the price of our equity shares could fluctuate unexpectedly. There is a difference between the level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities market and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants and that of markets in the United States and other developed economies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India is responsible for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has issued regulations and guidelines on disclosure requirements, insider trading and other matters. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in developed economies. As a result, shareholders could act on incomplete information and cause the price of our equity shares to fluctua te unexpectedly. ADS holders may be unable to exercise preemptive rights available to shareholders and therefore may suffer future dilution of their ownership position. A company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless these rights have been waived by at least 75% of the company’s shareholders present and voting at a shareholders’ general meeting. Holders of our ADSs as well as our shareholders located in the United States may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for our equity shares underlying our ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement will depend on the costs and poten tial liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling investors in our ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. We do not commit to filing a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such rights in the future, the rights would be issued to the depositary, which may sell the rights in the securities markets in India for the benefit of the holders of our ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the depositary would receive upon the sale of the rights. To the extent that holders of our ADSs as well as our shareholders located in the United States are unable to exercise preemptive rights, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. 12 ADS holders may be subject to potential losses arising out of exchange rate risk on the Indian rupee and risks associated with the conversion of rupee proceeds into foreign currency. Holders of ADSs as well as our shareholders located outside India are subject to currency fluctuation risks and convertibility risks, as our equity shares are quoted in Indian rupees on the Indian stock exchanges on which they are listed. Dividends on our equity shares will also be paid in Indian rupees, and then converted into US dollars for distribution to ADS holders. Holders that seek to convert the rupee proceeds of a sale of equity shares withdrawn upon surrender of ADSs into foreign currency and export the foreign currency will need to obtain the approval of the Reserve Bank of India for each transaction. In addition, holders that seek to sell equity shares withdrawn from the depositary facility will have to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India, unless the sale is made on a stock excha nge or in connection with an offer made under the regulations regarding takeovers. Holders of Indian rupees in India may also generally not purchase foreign currency without general or special approval from the Reserve Bank of India. ADS holders may be subject to Indian taxes arising out of capital gains. Generally, capital gains, whether short-term or long-term, arising on the sale of the underlying equity shares in India are subject to Indian capital gains tax. For the purpose of computing the amount of capital gains subject to tax, Indian law specifies that the cost of acquisition of the equity shares will be deemed to be the share price prevailing on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai or the National Stock Exchange on the date the depositary advises the custodian to deliver equity shares upon surrender of ADSs. The period of holding of equity shares, for determining whether the gain is long-term or short-term, commences on the date of the giving of such notice by the depositary to the custodian. Investors are advised to consult their own tax advisers and to consider carefully the potential tax consequences of an investment in our ADSs. ADS holders may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of India. All our directors and executive officers are residents of India and almost all of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in India. India is not a party to any international treaty in relation to the recognition or enforcement of foreign judgments. We have been advised by counsel that recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments is provided for on a statutory basis and that foreign judgments shall be conclusive regarding any matter directly adjudicated upon except where: · the judgment has not been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction; · the judgment has not been given on the merits of the case; · it appears on the face of the proceedings that the judgment is founded on an incorrect view of international law or a refusal to recognize the law of India in cases in which Indian law is applicable; · the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice; · the judgment has been obtained by fraud; or · the judgment sustains a claim founded on a breach of any law in force in India. It may not be possible for holders of our ADSs or our shareholders to effect service of process upon us or our directors and executive officers and experts named in the report that are residents of India outside India or to enforce judgments obtained against us or them in foreign courts predicated upon the liability provisions of foreign countries, including the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Moreover, it is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. An Indian court may not enforce a foreign judgment involving more than actual and quantifiable damages. 13 An active or liquid trading market for our ADSs is not assured. An active, liquid trading market for our ADSs may not be maintained in the long term. We cannot predict the extent to which an active, liquid public trading market for our ADSs will continue. If there is no longer any active trading market for our ADSs, or if we fail to meet eligibility requirements, we may be required to delist from the NYSE, which could adversely affect the price of our ADSs and, potentially, our equity shares. Although holders of ADSs are entitled to withdraw the equity shares underlying our ADSs from our depositary at any time, there is no public market for our equity shares in the United States. ADS holders may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights. At our request, the depositary will mail to ADS holders any notice of shareholders’ meeting received from us along with information explaining how to instruct our depositary to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the depositary receives voting instructions from ADS holders in time, relating to matters that have been forwarded to them, it will endeavor to vote the securities represented by those ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. However, the ability of the depositary to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure that all ADS holders will receive voting materials in time to enable them to return voting instructions to the depositary in a timely manner. 160; Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted. There may be other communications, notices or offerings that we only make to holders of our equity shares, which will not be forwarded to holders of ADSs. Accordingly, ADS holders may not be able to participate in all offerings, transactions or votes that are made available to direct holders of our equity shares. Although announced policy indicates there is no intention to do so, possible sales of our equity shares by the government of India could affect the value of our ADSs. The government of India holds approximately 56.25% of our outstanding equity shares. There have been no indications that the current government of India plans to further reduce its shareholding in us through a sale of equity. As a result, this ownership affects the voting by shareholders and the ability to influence any third party transactions, such as mergers or other business combinations. Any future disposal of equity shares by the Indian government could adversely affect the trading price of our equity shares and ADSs. 