Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. We urge investors to carefully consider the risk factors described below in evaluating the information contained in this report. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Risks Related to Our Capital Requirements, Finances and Operations We have incurred losses since our inception, we expect our operating expenses to continue to exceed our revenues for the foreseeable future and we may never generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. We are a development stage company and have not generated sustainable revenues from operations or been profitable since inception, and it is possible we will never achieve profitability. We have devoted our resources to acquiring and developing a new generation of therapeutic products, but such products cannot be marketed until the regulatory process is completed and governmental approvals have been obtained. Accordingly, there is no current source of revenues from operations, much less profits, to sustain our present activities, and no revenues from operations will likely be available until, and unless, our product candidates are approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies and successfully marketed, either by us or a partner, an outcome which we are not able to guarantee. The success of our business currently is dependent primarily on the success of ANX-530 and ANX-514 and we cannot be certain these product candidates will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We currently have no products for sale and only two product candidates, ANX-530 and ANX-514, for which we are pursuing regulatory approval and commercialization. We discontinued active development on other development programs in late 2008. As a result, the success of our business currently depends primarily on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for and successfully market and sell ANX-530 and ANX-514, efforts that may prove unsuccessful. In December 2009, we submitted an NDA to the FDA for ANX-530. However, in March 2010, we announced that we had received a refusal-to-file letter from the FDA regarding our ANX-530 NDA submission. In addition, we have not yet submitted an NDA, or any foreign regulatory equivalent, for ANX-514. If ANX-530 and/or ANX-514 is approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency, our ability to generate revenues from these products will depend in substantial part on the extent to which they are accepted by the medical community and reimbursed by third-party payors and our ability to ensure that our third-party manufacturer or manufacturers produce sufficient quantities of the products to meet commercial demand. -15- Table of Contents Our financial resources are limited, we will need to obtain additional funding to pursue our business strategy and we may not be able to obtain such funding on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We have experienced significant operating losses in acquiring and funding the development of our product candidates, accumulating net losses totaling approximately $149.9 million as of December 31, 2009, and we expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future, even if we or a future partner of ours is successful in advancing our product candidates to market. We do not expect to generate cash flows from sales of our products unless and until our products are approved for marketing, the timing of which we cannot predict accurately. As of December 31, 2009, our working capital was approximately $6.6 million. Our future expenditures on our programs are subject to many uncertainties, including whether our product candidates will be developed with a partner or independently. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the costs of seeking regulatory approval for ANX-530 and ANX-514, including any bioequivalence or clinical studies, process development, scale-up and other manufacturing and stability activities, or other work required to achieve such approval, as well as the timing of such activities and approval; • the timing and terms of any collaborative, licensing and other strategic arrangements that we may establish; • the costs related to developing, acquiring and/or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and regulatory compliance capabilities, most immediately with respect to ANX-530; • the extent to which we invest in or acquire new technologies, product candidates, products or businesses; • the scope, prioritization and number of development and/or commercialization programs we pursue and the rate of progress and costs with respect to such programs; • the extent to which we will need to rebuild our workforce, which currently consists of three full-time employees and one part-time employee, and the cost involved in recruiting, training and incentivizing new employees; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the cost involved in establishing, enforcing or defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights. We anticipate that our cash as of December 31, 2009, which was approximately $8.7 million, together with the net proceeds from the equity financing we completed in January 2010, will be sufficient to fund our operations at their current levels for at least the next 12 months. However, we may determine to grow our organization or product candidate pipeline or pursue development and/or commercialization activities at levels or on timelines that shorten the period through which our current operating funds will sustain us. As a result, we may need or choose to seek additional funding within the next 12 months. We may seek additional funding through public or private sales of our equity securities, debt financings, collaborations, licensing arrangements or other strategic or partnering transactions. However, we may not be able to obtain sufficient additional funding on satisfactory terms, if at all. We believe global economic conditions, including the heightened volatility of U.S. and international equity markets and the recent credit crisis, may adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital. We may incur substantial costs in connection with evaluating and negotiating future capital-raising and/or strategic or partnering transactions, the effect of which may be to shorten the period through which our current operating funds will sustain us. Even if we incur costs in pursuing, evaluating and negotiating particular capital-raising and/or strategic or partnering transactions, our efforts may not prove successful. -16- Table of Contents Our ability to raise capital may be limited by applicable laws and regulations. Historically, we have raised capital through the sale and issuance of our equity securities. Our ability to raise additional capital through the sale and issuance of our equity securities may be limited by, among other things, current Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and NYSE Amex rules and regulations. During 2009 and in January 2010, we completed four equity financings under a “shelf” registration statement on Form S-3. Use of a “shelf” registration statement for primary offerings typically enables an issuer to raise additional capital on a more timely and cost effective basis than through other means, such as registration of a securities offering under a Form S-1 registration statement. Under current SEC rules and regulations, to be eligible to use a Form S-3 registration statement for primary offerings without restriction as to the amount of securities to be sold and issued, an issuer must, among other requirements, have outstanding common equity with a market value of at least $75.0 million held by non-affiliates. If we file a “shelf” Form S-3 registration statement at a time when the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or public float, is less than $75.0 million (calculated as set forth in Form S-3 and SEC rules and regulations), the amount we could raise through primary offerings of our securities in any 12-month period using the Form S-3 registration statement may be limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. Moreover, the market value of all securities sold by us under a Form S-3 registration statement during the prior 12 months will be subtracted from that amount to determine the amount we can then raise under the Form S-3 registration statement. Even if we file a “shelf” Form S-3 registration statement at a time when our public float is $75.0 million or more (calculated as set forth in Form S-3 and SEC rules and regulations), we may become subject to the one-third of public float limitation described above in the future. The SEC’s rules and regulations require that we periodically re-evaluate the value of our public float. If, at a re-evaluation date, our public float is less than $75.0 million (calculated as set forth in Form S-3 and SEC rules and regulations), the amount we could raise through primary offerings of our securities in any 12-month period using a Form S-3 registration statement would be subject to the one-third of public float limitation described above. In addition under current SEC rules and regulations, if our public float is less than $75.0 million or if we seek to register a secondary offering (i.e., an offering of securities of ours by persons other than us), we must, among other requirements, maintain our listing with the NYSE Amex or have our common stock listed and registered on another national securities exchange in order to be eligible to use a Form S-3 registration statement for any primary or secondary offering. Alternative means of raising capital through sales of our securities, including through the use of a Form S-1 registration statement, may be more costly and time-consuming. Currently, we do not meet certain of the NYSE Amex’s continued listing standards and are at risk of being delisted from the NYSE Amex equities market. The NYSE Amex will review the appropriateness of continued listing of any issuer that falls below the exchange’s continued listing standards and may, in its discretion, at any time and without notice, suspend dealings in, or may remove any security from, listing privileges. For additional information regarding this risk, see the risk factor below titled “We currently are not in compliance with NYSE Amex continued listing standards and are at risk of being delisted from the NYSE Amex equities market.” If our common stock were delisted from the NYSE Amex, our ability to raise capital on terms and conditions we deem acceptable, if at all, may be materially impaired. Currently, we do not anticipate being eligible to register and list our common stock on any other national securities exchange. Our ability to timely raise sufficient additional capital also may be limited by the NYSE Amex’s requirements relating to stockholder approval for transactions involving the issuance of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. For instance, the NYSE Amex requires that we obtain stockholder approval of any transaction involving the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value, which (together with sales by our officers, directors and principal stockholders) equals 20% or more of our presently outstanding common stock, unless the transaction is considered a “public offering” by the NYSE Amex staff. Based on our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2010 and a closing price of $0.238, which was the closing price of our common stock on March 12, 2010, we could not raise more than approximately $12.2 million without stockholder approval, unless the transaction is deemed a public offering or does not involve the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value. However, certain prior sales by us may be aggregated with any offering we may propose in the near-term, further limiting the amount we could raise in any future offering that is not considered a public offering by the NYSE Amex staff and would involve the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than the greater of book or market value. The NYSE Amex will also require stockholder approval if the issuance or potential issuance of additional shares will be considered by the exchange staff to result in a change of control of us. -17- Table of Contents Obtaining stockholder approval is a costly and time-consuming process. If we are required to obtain stockholder approval, we would expect to spend substantial additional money and resources. In addition, seeking stockholder approval would delay our receipt of otherwise available capital, which may materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy, and there is no guarantee our stockholders would ultimately approve a proposed transaction. A public offering under the NYSE Amex rules typically involves broadly announcing the proposed transaction, which often times has the effect of depressing the issuer’s stock price. Accordingly, the price at which we could sell our securities in a public offering may be less and the dilution existing stockholders experience may in turn be greater than if we were able to raise capital through other means. Our ability to raise capital may be limited by contractual restrictions. In the past, in connection with raising capital through the sale and issuance of our equity securities, we have agreed to certain restrictions on our ability to raise additional capital through additional equity financing transactions. For example, in connection with an equity financing we completed in July 2005, we entered into a rights agreement with certain of the purchasers of our securities, including the entities affiliated with Carl C. Icahn. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, dated July 27, 2005, as amended, or the Rights Agreement, we agreed to, among other things, grant the investors that were party to the Rights Agreement, or the Rights Investors, the right to participate in sales of our securities for up to seven years (with certain enumerated exceptions as set forth in the Rights Agreement) including the right to purchase (i) up to 50% of securities we propose to sell in a public offering if the offering price is equal to or below $8.00 per share, (ii) up to 20% of the securities we propose to sell in a public offering if the offering price is above $8.00 per share, and (iii) up to 50% of the securities we propose to sell in a private offering. Pursuant to the Rights Agreement, we must notify the Rights Investors of a proposed transaction in which they have participation rights at least 15 days but not later than 30 days prior to the sale of our securities and the Rights Investors have 10 days after receipt of such notice to notify us of their intention to participate. Historically, we have requested and received waivers from the Rights Investors with respect to their participation rights, but if we are unable to obtain such waivers with respect to any future financing transactions in a timely manner, or at all, we may be unable to consummate a financing opportunity that otherwise may be available to us and in the best interest of our company and stockholders. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, require us to relinquish proprietary rights or restrict our operations. We may raise additional capital at any time and may do so through one or more financing alternatives, including public or private sales of our equity securities, debt financings, collaborations, licensing arrangements or other strategic transactions. Each of these financing alternatives carries certain risks. Raising capital through the issuance of common stock may depress the market price of our stock and may substantially dilute our existing stockholders. If we instead seek to raise capital through strategic transactions, such as licensing arrangements or sales of one or more of our technologies or product candidates, we may be required to relinquish valuable rights. For example, any licensing arrangement would likely require us to share a significant portion of any revenues generated by our licensed technologies with our licensees. Additionally, our control over the development of any products or product candidates licensed or sold to third parties may be reduced and thus we may not realize the full value of any such products or product candidates. Debt financings could involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens or make investments and may, among other things, preclude us from making distributions to stockholders (either by paying dividends or redeeming stock) and taking other actions beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, investors could impose more one-sided investment terms and conditions on companies that have or are perceived to have limited remaining funds or limited ability to raise additional funds. The lower our cash balance, the more difficult it is likely to be for us to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. -18- Table of Contents We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel and managing growth. Currently, we have three full-time employees and one part-time employee and we rely on third parties to perform many essential services for us. We will need to substantially expand our financial, regulatory, research and development, manufacturing, commercial, quality, compliance and other resources in order to manage our operations, submit applications to and respond to inquiries from the FDA, commercialize ANX-530, should it be approved, and continue the development of ANX-514. We do not expect that our current management, personnel, systems and facilities will be adequate to support these activities. The success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, commercialization, scientific and other personnel, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with respected service providers and industry-leading consultants and advisors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions, particularly in the San Diego, California area. In connection with the cost-cutting measures we implemented in October 2008, January 2009 and March 2009, we eliminated, among others, our scientific staff and our manufacturing and regulatory personnel, who had a deep background in our product candidates and our research and development programs. Recruiting and retaining employees, including senior-level personnel, with relevant product development and commercialization experience in cancer and process development experience with emulsified cytotoxic drugs may be costly and time-consuming. Our ability to provide competitive compensation to our management and other employees may also be adversely affected by our current capital resources and anticipated need to raise additional capital to pursue our business strategy. If we cannot attract and retain additional skilled personnel, we may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. For additional information regarding our need to develop our sales and marketing capabilities, see the risk factor below titled, “We currently have no sales or marketing capability and our failure to develop these and related capabilities internally or contract with third parties to perform these activities successfully could delay and/or limit our ability to generate revenues in the event one or more of our product candidates obtains regulatory approval.” We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to retain key personnel. We are highly dependent on the expertise and deep background in our product candidates of our chief executive officer and our president and chief operating officer, who currently are the only members of our management team. If we lose one or both of these key employees, our ability to successfully implement our business strategy could be seriously harmed. Replacing these key employees may be difficult and take an extended period of time, particularly due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. Our chief executive officer and our president and chief operating officer may terminate their employment with us at any time with or without notice. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital, we may be forced to reduce our current and/or planned development and commercialization activities, partner our product candidates or products at inopportune times or pursue less expensive but higher-risk development and commercialization paths, which we have done in the past. We expect to need to raise additional capital in order to execute our business plans. If we are not able to raise sufficient additional capital, we may be required to reduce our development and commercialization activities or attempt to continue them by entering into arrangements with partners or others that may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, and may require us to relinquish some or all of our rights to our product candidates or products or the financial benefits thereof. For example, in late 2008, due to an immediate need for additional capital, we discontinued all of our development programs other than with respect to ANX-530 and ANX-514 and limited our activities with respect to ANX-530 and ANX-514 to those we believed necessary to preparing and submitting NDAs for ANX-530 and ANX-514. Going forward, if we do not have sufficient capital, we may determine, for example, not to conduct post-approval clinical studies to support uses of our products in new indications or other label changes intended to expand the scale and scope of market potential for our products. -19- Table of Contents The use of our net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits may be limited. Net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits may expire and not be used. As of December 31, 2009, we had generated federal and state net operating loss carry forwards of approximately $101.4 million and $51.1 million, respectively, and federal and state research and development tax credit carry forwards of approximately $1.8 million and $1.1 million, respectively. Federal net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits have a 20-year carry forward period and California net operating losses have a carry forward period that varies depending on the year such net operating losses are generated. California research and development tax credits carry forward indefinitely. Our federal net operating loss carry forwards will begin to expire in 2020 and our California net operating loss carry forwards will begin to expire in 2012 if we have not used them prior to that time. Our federal research and development tax credits will begin to expire in 2024. Pursuant to Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or IRC, our ability to use any net operating loss carry forwards and research and development credits to offset taxable income in the future may be limited if we have a cumulative change in ownership of more than 50% within a three-year period. We have not completed an analysis to determine whether such a change in ownership has occurred since January 1, 2008, but we believe a change in ownership may have occurred as a result of our equity securities financings in 2009 and/or in January 2010. If such a change in ownership has occurred or were to occur in the future, the amount of our net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits we could utilize annually in the future to offset taxable income could be significantly restricted or eliminated. Inability to fully utilize our net operating loss carry forwards and research and development tax credits could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to annually furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment by our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Performing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 is both costly and challenging. In addition, under current SEC rules, we will be required to obtain an attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm as to our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, which may require commitment of significant additional financial and managerial resources. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of internal controls that need improvement. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we discovered that we did not correctly apply generally accepted accounting principles relating to accounting for warrant liability because our accounting staff did not have adequate training or expertise, and determined that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. For a detailed description of this material weakness and our remediation of this material weakness, see “Part II — Item 9A(T) — Controls and Procedures” of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. If we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and/or disclosure controls and procedures in the future, we may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting and/or our disclosure controls and procedures, as applicable, are effective, and we may need to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures. As a result of reductions in our workforce and other personnel departures that occurred in 2008 and 2009, we have experienced substantial turnover in our personnel responsible for performing activities related to our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Since July 2009, our president and chief operating officer, who has no formal education in finance or accounting, has additionally served as our principal financial and principal accounting officer. We have used third-party contractors in an effort to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures during this turn-over. However, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified in the future and if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and/or disclosure controls and procedures we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. -20- Table of Contents Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error and circumvention by collusion or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even an effective internal control system may not prevent or detect material misstatements on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our corporate headquarters are located at a single business park in San Diego, California. Important documents and records, including copies of our regulatory documents and other records for our product candidates, are located at our facilities and we depend on our facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as wildfires and other fires, earthquakes and extended power interruptions, which have impacted San Diego businesses in the past, and terrorist attacks, drought or flood, could significantly disrupt our operations and result in additional, unplanned expense. As a small company, we have limited capability to establish and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program and, accordingly, we do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and any natural disaster or catastrophic event could delay our development and commercialization efforts. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable insurance, we might suffer losses that exceed the coverage available under these insurance policies. In addition, we are not insured against terrorist attacks or earthquakes. Risks Related to Drug Development and Commercialization Further testing and/or validation of our product candidates and related manufacturing processes may be required and regulatory approval may be delayed or denied, which would limit or prevent us from marketing our product candidates and significantly impair our ability to generate revenues. Human pharmaceutical products generally are subject to rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and other approval procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Various federal and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate U.S. and foreign statutes and regulations is time-consuming and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. In addition, these requirements and processes vary widely from country to country. To varying degrees based on the regulatory plan for each product candidate, the effect of government regulation and the need for FDA and other regulatory agency approval will delay commercialization of our product candidates, impose costly procedures upon our activities, and put us at a disadvantage relative to larger companies with which we compete. There can be no assurance that FDA or other regulatory approval for any product candidates developed by us will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. For example, despite our including in the December 2009 submission of our ANX-530 NDA data that we believe met the filing requirements for a new drug promulgated by ICH, as well as site-specific stability data from lots manufactured at the intended commercial manufacturing site, we received a refusal-to-file letter from the FDA indicating that the data included in the December 2009 submission was insufficient to support a commercially-viable expiration dating period. Likewise, even though the FDA has confirmed the appropriateness of a Section 505(b)(2) regulatory path for ANX-530 and ANX-514, the FDA’s views may change. If the FDA requires the longer-term regulatory approval pathway associated with traditional drug development for ANX-530 and ANX-514, we may determine that the associated time and cost is not financially justifiable and, as a result, discontinue these programs. If we discontinue the development of one or both of these product candidates, our business and stock price may suffer. -21- Table of Contents In connection with any NDA that we file under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, we may be required to notify third parties that we have certified to the FDA that any patents listed for the reference product in the FDA’s Orange Book publication are invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of our product. If the third party files a patent infringement lawsuit against us within 45 days of its receipt of notice of our certification, the FDA is automatically prevented from approving our NDA until, subject to certain adjustments, the earliest of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to us. Accordingly, we may invest significant time and expense in the development of our product candidates, including ANX-514, only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before our products may be commercialized. We may not achieve our projected development and commercialization goals in the time frames we announce. Delays in the commencement or completion of nonclinical testing, bioequivalence or clinical trials or manufacturing, regulatory or launch activities could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues. We set goals for and make public statements regarding our estimates of the timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to successful development and commercialization of our product candidates. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to any number of factors, including delays or failures in our nonclinical testing, bioequivalence and clinical trials and manufacturing, regulatory and commercial launch activities and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process. While our regulatory strategy for ANX-530 and ANX-514 has been to demonstrate the bioequivalence of each to the currently approved reference product in small, bioequivalence trials in humans, we may determine to conduct clinical studies to support uses in new indications or other label changes or for other reasons. We conduct nonclinical activities in the course of our development programs, including in connection with the manufacture of our product candidates, and in response to requests by regulatory authorities, as well as for other reasons. Delays in our nonclinical activities could occur for a number of reasons, including: • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and CMOs; • failures on the part of our CROs and CMOs in developing procedures and protocols or otherwise conducting activities on timeframes requested by us; • changes in regulatory requirements or other standards or guidance relating to nonclinical testing, including testing of pharmaceutical products in animals; • a lack of availability of capacity at our CMOs, or of the component materials, including the API or related materials, including vials and stoppers, necessary to manufacture our product candidates or products; and • unforeseen results of nonclinical testing that require us to amend study or test designs or delay future testing or bioequivalence or clinical trials and related regulatory filings. In addition, we do not know whether planned bioequivalence or clinical trials will commence on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; • identifying appropriate trial sites and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs, trial sites and investigators, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs, trial sites and investigators; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; -22- Table of Contents • obtaining IRB approval to conduct a trial at a prospective site; • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in trials for a variety of reasons, including competition from other clinical trials for the same indication as our product candidates and the perception that the design of a trial or the proposed treatment regimen is less beneficial to patients than available alternatives; and • retaining patients who have initiated a trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. Even if we complete a planned bioequivalence or clinical trial, we may not achieve our projected development and commercialization goals in the time frames we initially anticipate or announce. For example, although we completed our bioequivalence study of ANX-514 in 2009, the study did not demonstrate bioequivalence between ANX-514 and the reference product based on the FDA’s benchmark regulatory standards, resulting in additional uncertainty around the cost and timeline to obtaining FDA approval for ANX-514. In addition, a trial may be suspended or terminated by us, an IRB, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or the trial’s protocol; • inspection of trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the trial. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance relating to bioequivalence or clinical trials may occur and we may need to amend trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit protocols to IRBs for reexamination or renegotiate terms with CROs, trial sites and trial investigators, all of which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a trial. Changes may also occur in regulatory requirements relating to the data required to be included in applications at the time of initial submission to the FDA or other regulatory agencies. For example, while we have not yet met with the FDA to discuss the refusal-to-file letter we announced in March 2010 that we had received regarding our December 2009 ANX-530 NDA submission, we believe a change in regulatory policy, which may not have been formalized or publicly disseminated, may have been a factor underlying the FDA’s refusal to file our NDA submission. There can be no assurance that our nonclinical testing and bioequivalence and/or clinical trials will commence or be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the development or commercialization of any of our product candidates. For example, in March 2010, we announced that we had received a refusal-to-file letter from the FDA regarding our ANX-530 NDA submission. While we have not met with the FDA to discuss the refusal-to-file letter, we expect the FDA will require additional stability data to accept our application, which data will take time and is costly to generate. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, our bioequivalence or clinical trials or nonclinical testing, the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of bioequivalence or clinical trials or nonclinical testing may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we are able to ultimately commercialize our product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market in the interim and established a competitive advantage. -23- Table of Contents Positive results in our nonclinical testing and/or bioequivalence trials do not ensure that future bioequivalence or clinical trials will be successful or that our product candidates will receive the regulatory approvals necessary for their commercialization. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through nonclinical testing and bioequivalence or clinical trials that each product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Success in nonclinical testing and/or bioequivalence trials does not ensure that subsequent or large-scale trials will be successful. Additionally, throughout development, we must provide adequate assurance to the FDA and other regulatory authorities that we can consistently produce our product candidates in conformance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and other regulatory standards. Bioequivalence and clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations and regulatory authorities may disagree on what are appropriate methods for analyzing data, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. For instance, with respect to our bioequivalence trial of ANX-530, the FDA may perform its bioequivalence analysis based on a patient population other than the population on which we based our analysis, which may result in the FDA determining that ANX-530 and Navelbine are not bioequivalent, requiring that we evaluate additional patients, re-perform the study or take other remedial action. In addition, because we are using a different third-party manufacturer for the commercial manufacture of ANX-530 than we used for the manufacture of the ANX-530 used in our bioequivalence trial and certain changes were required in transferring the manufacturing process, the FDA may require us to perform additional nonclinical or clinical studies before accepting our ANX-530 NDA or approving ANX-530 for marketing and sale in the U.S. Further, the ANX-530 bioequivalence trial was open-label, meaning physician-investigators, as well as patients, may have been aware of which drug was being administered. There is a risk of investigator bias in reporting adverse events as a result of the study’s open-label nature, including bias that may have increased the reporting of adverse events associated with Navelbine and/or decreased the reporting of adverse events associated with ANX-530. With respect to ANX-514, despite positive nonclinical testing that indicated bioequivalence between ANX-514 and the reference product, our bioequivalence trial of ANX-514 did not demonstrate bioequivalence between ANX-514 and the reference product based on the FDA’s benchmark regulatory standards. In addition, the FDA may inquire regarding the manufacturing source, in-process and product release specifications and overall uniformity of reference product used in the bioequivalence trial of ANX-514, particularly since it was conducted at sites in multiple countries, and we may be unable to provide documentation satisfactory to the FDA with respect to such reference product, which may result in the FDA requiring that we evaluate additional patients, re-perform the study or take other remedial measures. Further, we have licensed certain rights to ANX-514 to a third party and have limited control over any nonclinical or clinical studies such third party, or a future third-party licensee, may conduct. If data from investigations of ANX-514 sponsored by a third-party licensee identify a safety or efficacy concern with respect to ANX-514, or the lack of comparable pharmacokinetics between ANX-514 and Taxotere, such data could have an adverse effect on the U.S. regulatory process. The length of time necessary to complete bioequivalence or clinical trials and manufacturing development work and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and is difficult to predict accurately. For instance, with respect to ANX-514, the form of API used in the manufacture of ANX-514 for purposes of our bioequivalence study of ANX-514 will not be the same form of API used in the manufacture of ANX-514 for purposes of process validation batches or commercial supply. To ensure the comparability of the ANX-514 used in the bioequivalence study and the ANX-514 intended for commercial sale, the FDA may require that we evaluate both forms of ANX-514 in additional patients, re-perform the bioequivalence study or take other remedial actions. We may have insufficient quantities of both forms of ANX-514 and could incur substantial cost and delay in acquiring such quantities, in addition to the time and expense associated with conducting the evaluation, re-performing the study or taking other remedial measures. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in FDA policy for drug approval during the period of product development and FDA regulatory review of each submitted NDA. For example, while we have not yet met with the FDA to discuss the refusal-to-file letter we announced in March 2010 that we had received regarding our December 2009 ANX-530 NDA submission, we believe a change in regulatory policy, which may not have been formalized or publicly disseminated, may have been a factor underlying the FDA’s refusal to file our NDA submission. There is a significant risk that any of our product candidates could fail to show anticipated results in human trials, as was the case in our bioequivalence study of ANX-514, or manufacturing development, and, as a result, we may not continue their development. A failure to obtain requisite regulatory approvals or to obtain approvals of the scope requested will delay or preclude us from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of the products, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -24- Table of Contents We currently have no sales or marketing capability and our failure to develop these and related capabilities internally or contract with third parties to perform these activities successfully could delay and/or limit our ability to generate revenues in the event one or more of our product candidates obtains regulatory approval. We currently do not have sales, marketing or commercialization personnel. To commercialize our products, including ANX-530, we will have to acquire or develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or rely on marketing partners or other arrangements with third parties for the marketing, distribution and sale of our products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to establish marketing, distribution or sales capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform those activities on terms satisfactory to us, or that any internal capabilities or third-party arrangements will be cost-effective. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution and associated regulatory compliance capabilities will require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and negatively impact our product development and commercialization efforts. In addition, any third parties with which we establish marketing, distribution or sales arrangements may have significant control over important aspects of the commercialization of our products, including market identification, marketing methods, pricing, composition of sales force and promotional activities. If we retain third-party service providers to perform functions related to the sale and distribution of our products, key aspects of those functions that would be out of our direct control could include warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management. In this event, we would place substantial reliance on third-party providers to perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of products to their care and handling. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter natural or other disasters at their facilitates, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand could be significantly impaired. In addition, we may use third parties to perform various other services for us relating to sample accountability and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, our ability to continue to market our products could be jeopardized or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We do not currently have the internal capacity to perform these important commercial functions, and we may not be able to enter into or maintain commercial arrangements for these services on reasonable timelines or terms, or at all. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining these arrangements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to control the amount and timing of resources that any third party may devote to our products or prevent any third party from pursuing alternative technologies or products that could result in the development of products that compete with, or the withdrawal of support for, our products. If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval do not achieve broad market acceptance (including as a result of our inability to differentiate our products from competitor products or promote any such differences or as a result of failing to obtain reimbursement rates for our products that make our products competitive from the healthcare provider’s perspective), the revenues we generate from their sales will be limited and our business may not be profitable. Our success will depend in substantial part on the extent to which our products for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are accepted by the medical community and reimbursed by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including, among other things: • our product’s perceived advantages over existing treatment methods (including relative convenience and ease of administration and prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects); • claims or other information (including limitations or warnings) in our product’s approved labeling; • the resources we devote to marketing our products and restrictions on promotional claims we can make with respect to our products; • reimbursement and coverage policies of government and other third-party payors; • pricing and cost-effectiveness; -25- Table of Contents • in the U.S., the ability of group purchasing organizations (including distributors and other network providers) to sell our products to their constituencies; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and efficacy of our products and our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • availability of alternative treatments; and • the prevalence of off-label substitution of chemically equivalent products or alternative treatments. We cannot predict whether physicians, patients, healthcare insurers or maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any of our products. If our products are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by these parties, we may not generate sufficient revenues from these products to become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors regarding the benefits, if any, of our products may require significant resources and may never be successful. In addition, FDA approval of our product candidates pursuant to a Section 505(b)(2) regulatory strategy, which is the strategy we currently are pursuing for ANX-530, may limit our ability to differentiate our products from competitor products since the basis of such strategy is the bioequivalence of our products to the reference products, unless the FDA allows us to include certain data in our products’ labels. Even if our products demonstrate clinical or pharmacoeconomic benefits relative to competing products, we may be unable to market our products based on these benefits. If we fail to obtain a unique HCPCS product code for ANX-530, it is unlikely we will be able to sell that product at a price that exceeds its manufacturing, marketing and distribution costs. Even if we obtain unique HCPCS product codes for our products, if our products are perceived to provide little or no advantage relative to competing products or for other reasons, we may be required to price our products at levels that do not cover our costs to manufacture, market and distribute the products or provide any profit, or to price our products at levels at which they are not competitive. We do not have manufacturing capabilities and are dependent on single source manufacturers and suppliers for certain of our product candidates and their component materials, and the loss of any of these manufacturers or suppliers, or their failure to provide us with an adequate supply of products or component materials on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, could harm our business. We do not have any manufacturing capability. We rely on third-party manufacturers and component materials suppliers for the manufacture of our product candidates for bioequivalence or clinical trial purposes and we anticipate establishing relationships with third-party manufacturers and component materials suppliers for the commercial production of our products. Currently we do not have any commercial supply agreements or commitments with our third-party manufacturers or component suppliers, and we cannot ensure that we will be able to establish relationships with these parties on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to establish and maintain such relationships, we expect it would have a material and adverse effect on our operations. Even if we successfully establish relationships with third-party manufacturers and component suppliers on commercially acceptable terms, our manufacturers and suppliers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Because many of our single source suppliers provide manufacturing services to a number of other pharmaceutical companies, our suppliers may experience capacity constraints or choose to prioritize one or more of their other customers over us. Any significant problem that our single source manufacturers or suppliers experience could delay or interrupt the supply to us of bioequivalence or clinical trial materials or products until the manufacturer or supplier cures the problem or until we locate, negotiate for and validate an alternative source of supply, if an alternative source is available, and any such delay or interruption could materially and adversely affect our development and commercial activities and operations. For instance, ANX-530 is an emulsified cytotoxic product that must be aseptically-filled. There are a limited number of CMOs capable and willing to manufacture this type of product at the commercial scale at which we anticipate requiring in accordance with our marketing plans for ANX-530, which will make identifying and establishing short- or long-term relationships with willing manufacturers more difficult and provide them with substantial leverage over us in any negotiations. Furthermore, certain of the component materials of ANX-530 are available only from a particular supplier, and currently we do not have any short- or long-term agreements for the supply of those materials. -26- Table of Contents Even if we successfully establish a long-term relationship with our current CMO for ANX-530 on commercially acceptable terms, that CMO may be unable to successfully and consistently manufacture ANX-530 at commercial scale. Both us and our current CMO have limited experience manufacturing ANX-530. Because data from a single bioequivalence trial of ANX-530 may be sufficient to support approval of the ANX-530 NDA, our and our current CMO’s ability to gain experience manufacturing ANX-530, in particular at various scales, has been limited. If our current CMO is unable to manufacture ANX-530 successfully and consistently at commercial scale and within established parameters, we may be unable to validate our manufacturing process, even if the FDA otherwise would approve our NDA, and we would therefore be unable to sell ANX-530. Both us and our current CMO have similarly limited experience with ANX-514. All manufacturers of our products and product candidates must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program, as well as applicable requirements of foreign regulatory authorities. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products and product candidates may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. While we or our representatives generally monitor and audit our manufacturers’ systems, we have little control over our manufacturers’ ongoing compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. Furthermore, the manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling-up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing and shortages of qualified personnel. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to provide product candidates to patients in our future bioequivalence or clinical trials may be jeopardized. In addition, any delay or interruption in the supply of supplies necessary or useful to manufacture our product or product candidates could delay the completion of our future trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our development programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the trials completely. We cannot ensure that manufacturing or quality control problems will not arise in connection with the manufacture of our products or product candidates, or that third-party manufacturers will be able to maintain the necessary governmental licenses and approvals to continue manufacturing such products or product candidates. Any of the above factors could cause us to delay or suspend anticipated or on-going trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products and product candidates may adversely affect our future costs and our ability to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. If any of our product candidates should be approved, any problems or delays experienced in their manufacturing processes may impair our ability to provide commercial quantities of the products, which would limit our ability to sell the products and would adversely affect our business. It could take significant time to redesign our manufacturing processes or identify alternative suppliers in response to problems we may encounter as we manufacture our products, if such alternative processes and suppliers are available at all. Even if we are able to identify alternative suppliers, they may be unwilling to manufacture our products on commercially reasonable terms. Neither ANX-530 nor ANX-514 have been manufactured at the scales we believe will be necessary to maximize their commercial value to us and, accordingly, we may encounter difficulties in production while scaling-up initial production and may not succeed in scaling-up initial production. -27- Table of Contents Any new supplier of products or component materials, including API, would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing such products or ingredients. The FDA may require us to conduct additional bioequivalence or clinical trials, collect stability data and provide additional information concerning any new supplier, or change in a validated manufacturing process, before we could distribute products from that supplier or revised process. For example, if FDA requires substantial stability or other data from the new manufacturer, which data will take time and is costly to generate, it could cause interruptions in our ability to meet commercial demand, if any. In addition, obtaining the necessary FDA approvals or other qualifications under applicable regulatory requirements and ensuring non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in a significant interruption of supply and could require the new supplier to bear significant additional costs which may be passed on to us. We rely significantly on third parties to conduct our nonclinical testing and bioequivalence and clinical studies and other aspects of our development programs and if those third parties do not satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations or meet anticipated deadlines, the development of our product candidates could be adversely affected. We do not employ personnel or possess the facilities necessary to conduct many of the activities associated with our programs, particularly since we implemented severe cost-cutting measures in late 2008 and early 2009. We engage consultants, advisors, CROs, CMOs and others to design, conduct, analyze and interpret the results of nonclinical tests and bioequivalence and clinical studies in connection with the research and development of our product candidates. As a result, many important aspects of our product candidates’ development are outside our direct control. There can be no assurance that such third parties will perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us or will perform those obligations satisfactorily. The CROs with which we contract for execution of our bioequivalence and clinical studies play a significant role in the conduct of the studies and subsequent collection and analysis of data, and we will likely depend on these and other CROs and clinical investigators to conduct any future bioequivalence or clinical studies or assist with our analysis of completed studies and to develop corresponding regulatory strategies. Individuals working at the CROs with which we contract, as well as investigators at the sites at which our studies are conducted, are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If these CROs fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our studies, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our applications to regulatory agencies and the introduction of our products. Failure of these CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect development of our product candidates. Moreover, these CROs may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. For instance, we lack the internal capabilities to fully analyze the data from our bioequivalence study of ANX-514 and rely on multiple third-party consultants to help us interpret and understand the data. Because of the impact different analyses of the data may have on our business, we believe an employee likely would approach the data and analysis in a substantially more rigorous, thoughtful and creative manner than a consultant or contractor. If we receive regulatory approval for one or more of our product candidates, we may face competition from generic products, which could exert downward pressure on the pricing and market share of our products and limit our ability to generate revenues. Many of the currently marketed and anticipated products against which our product candidates may compete are, or we anticipate will be, available as generics. For instance, ANX-530 will compete against Navelbine, for which generic equivalents are already available. ANX-514 will compete against Taxotere. We anticipate that ANX-514 will also compete against other formulations of docetaxel and that generic equivalents of Taxotere will enter the market in November 2013 or May 2014 (depending on whether a period of pediatric exclusivity is granted in the future), or sooner if manufacturers of generic equivalents of Taxotere prevail in current or any future patent infringement litigation resulting from their assertions in certifications to the FDA that their products will not infringe any unexpired Taxotere patents or that such unexpired patents are invalid. Even if we obtain unique HCPCS product codes for our products, the existence of generic products could make it more difficult for our branded products, to gain or maintain market share and could cause prices for our products to drop, each of which could adversely affect our business. -28- Table of Contents If we receive regulatory approval for one or more of our product candidates, we may face competition for our products from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. Proposed federal legislative changes may expand consumers’ ability to import lower priced versions of our and competing products from Canada. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our business and prospects. Even if we receive regulatory approval for one or more of our product candidates, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. Even if initial regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or marketing surveillance programs. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements related to the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information regarding the product. For instance, in September 2007, amendments to the FDCA were signed into law. These amendments significantly strengthen the FDA’s regulatory authority over drug products, including new controls over the post-approval monitoring of such products. The FDA may now require changes to approved drug labels, require post-approval clinical trials and impose distribution and use restrictions on certain drug products. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continuing regulatory review and periodic inspections. If previously unknown problems with a product are discovered, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, the FDA may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we or a CMO of ours fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend or terminate any ongoing bioequivalence or clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • impose restrictions or affirmative obligations on our or our CMO’s operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; • close the facilities of a CMO; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Even if one or more of our product candidates receive regulatory approval in the U.S., we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the U.S., which would limit our ability to realize the full market potential of our product candidates. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. In particular, other countries may not have a comparable regulatory procedure as is available under Section 505(b)(2) of FDCA. Even if a country did have a comparable procedure, that country may require a more robust data package than the bioequivalence data package that we submitted in support of the ANX-530 NDA. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S., as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. As described above, such effects include the risks that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and have an adverse effect on product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. -29- Table of Contents Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt bioequivalence or clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. In addition, if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product or the reference product: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our success will depend on patents and other protection we obtain on our product candidates and proprietary technology. Our success will depend in part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patent protection with respect to our products; • prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; • maintain trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others; and • obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement would otherwise occur, both in the U.S. and in foreign countries. The patent and intellectual property positions of specialty pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no guarantee that we have or will develop or obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology we develop or have developed or that is used by us, our CMOs or our other service providers. In addition, we cannot be certain that patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, including by our competitors, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. -30- Table of Contents Furthermore, patent applications in the U.S. are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors listed in any patent or patent application owned by us were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and patent applications or that such inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We also may rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and others. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance, however, that binding agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. In addition, there can be no assurance that inventions relevant to us will not be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. Exclusivity for our emulsion-formulation product candidates may be limited because of the nature of patent protection available for these candidates. While the patent applications covering our emulsion-formulation product candidates, including ANX-530 and ANX-514, include product claims, they cover only specific formulations of the underlying chemical entity, or API, and not the API itself. Such product claims are not as strong as claims covering new APIs, which are widely viewed as the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as they apply without regard to how the API is formulated or the method in which the API is used. A competitor may modify our formulations and obtain regulatory approval for products with the same API as our products. Such competitive products may not infringe any patents we may hold in the future covering our specific formulation of the API. If we are sued for infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have an adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends on our ability and the ability of our CMOs and component suppliers to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are or may be developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our products and product candidates may give rise to claims that our products or product candidates infringe the rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to publish and issue, there currently may be pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our products, product candidates or technologies infringe, or that the process of manufacturing our products or any of their respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, infringe. We or our CMOs or component material suppliers may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products, product candidates and/or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights or that the process of manufacturing our products or any of their respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of these patents was found to cover our products, product candidates, technologies or their uses, or any of the underlying manufacturing processes or components, we could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our technologies or methods unless we are able to obtain a license to the patent or intellectual property right. A license may not be available to us in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, a patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable remedy that could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. -31- Table of Contents In connection with any NDA that we file under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, we may be required to notify third parties that we have certified to the FDA that any patents listed for the reference product in the FDA’s Orange Book publication are invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of our product. If the third party files a patent infringement lawsuit against us within 45 days of its receipt of notice of our certification, the FDA is automatically prevented from approving our Section 505(b)(2) NDA until, subject to certain adjustments, the earliest of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to us. Accordingly, we may invest significant time and expense in the development of our product candidates, only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before our product candidates may be commercialized. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our CMOs or component material suppliers infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including the potential for treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it may not be required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to our products; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, technology or methods or those of our CMOs or component material suppliers. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in the pharmaceutical industry, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, technology or methods or those of our CMOs or component material suppliers. In addition, it may be necessary for us to enforce patents under which we have rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights, which may affect our rights. There can be no assurance that our patents would be held valid by a court or administrative body or that an alleged infringer would be found to be infringing. The uncertainty resulting from the mere institution and continuation of any patent related litigation or interference proceeding could have a material and adverse effect on us. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY We expect intense competition in the marketplace for each of our products, if any are approved. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and rapidly changing. If successfully developed and approved, all of our products will likely compete with existing and new products and therapies and our competitors may succeed in commercializing products more rapidly or effectively than us, which would have a material and adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from product sales. In addition, there are numerous companies with a focus in oncology and/or that are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases as are targeted by the products being developed by us or that focus on reformulating currently approved drugs. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition in the future as new products enter the market and new technologies become available. There is no assurance that existing products or new products developed by competitors will not be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than those we may market and sell. Competitive products may render our products and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. -32- Table of Contents For instance, numerous companies are focused on reformulating currently approved chemotherapeutic agents. In particular, the taxanes, the class of drugs of which Taxotere is a member, have experienced substantial commercial success, in part as a result of their effectiveness in treating a wide variety of cancers, which has generated significant interest in reformulating Taxotere and other taxanes. In addition to our approach of emulsifying docetaxel, other companies are pursuing alternative delivery vehicles, including the use of albumin nanoparticles, prodrugs, polyglutamates, analogs, co-solvents, liposomes and microspheres. Many of these or similar approaches could be applied to vinorelbine. Relative to our formulations, formulations based on one or more of these other methods may result in greater efficacy or safety, provide better drug delivery to tumor sites or otherwise increase benefits to patients and healthcare providers. In particular, ANX-530 and ANX-514, if approved, may compete against Navelbine and Taxotere, respectively, as well as their generic equivalents and other formulations of vinorelbine and docetaxel. In addition to Navelbine, currently there are eight approved generic versions of vinorelbine. In addition, there is an oral formulation of vinorelbine approved for use in the EU against which we would compete if our emulsion formulation of vinorelbine were approved for use in the EU. In the U.S., in May 2010 (but subject to any period of pediatric exclusivity that may be granted in the future), patent protection ends for docetaxel and, in November 2013 (but subject to any period of pediatric exclusivity that may be granted in the future), patent protection ends for Taxotere. We are aware of three companies that each have developed or acquired a formulation of docetaxel and have certified that, after May 2010, their respective formulations of docetaxel will not infringe any unexpired Taxotere patents or that such unexpired patents are invalid or unenforceable. In addition, a fourth company has submitted an application seeking approval of a generic equivalent of Taxotere and has certified that, after May 2010, its product will not infringe any unexpired Taxotere patents or that such unexpired patents are invalid or unenforceable. With respect to ANX-530, because we submitted the ANX-530 NDA with only bioequivalence data, our ability to differentiate ANX-530 from competing products will be limited. Even if we believe ANX-530 has demonstrated clinical or pharmacoeconomic benefits relative to competing products, we may be unable to market it based on these benefits. If our products fail to obtain unique HCPCS product codes, we may be required to price our products at levels that do not cover our costs to manufacture, market and distribute the products or provide any profit, or to price our products at levels at which they are not competitive. Companies likely to have products that will compete with our product candidates have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we do, and are better equipped to develop, manufacture, market and distribute products. Many of these companies have extensive experience in nonclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products, have products that have been approved or are in late-stage development, and operate large, well-funded research and development programs. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations are becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their inventions and are actively seeking to commercialize the technology they have developed. We are subject to uncertainty relating to healthcare reform measures and reimbursement policies that, if not favorable to our products, could hinder or prevent our products’ commercial success. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues or achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability to us of capital. -33- Table of Contents If we are successful in obtaining FDA approval for ANX-530, we will compete with Navelbine and several generic equivalents of Navelbine. Our ability to commercialize ANX-530 will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish what we believe are appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. These payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement, particularly for new therapeutic products or if there is a perception that the target indication of the new product is well-served by existing drugs or other treatments. Accordingly, even if coverage and reimbursement are provided, market acceptance of our products would be adversely affected if the amount of coverage and/or reimbursement available for the use of our products proved to be unprofitable for healthcare providers or less profitable than alternative treatments. There have been federal and state proposals to subject the pricing of healthcare goods and services to government control and to make other changes to the U.S. healthcare system. While we cannot predict the outcome of current or future legislation, we anticipate, particularly given President Obama’s focus on healthcare reform, that Congress and state legislatures will introduce initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of drug products is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. It is uncertain if future legislative proposals, whether domestic or abroad, will be adopted that might affect our products or product candidates or what actions federal, state, or private payors for healthcare treatment and services may take in response to any such healthcare reform proposals or legislation. Any such healthcare reforms could have a material and adverse effect on the marketability of any products for which we ultimately receive FDA or other regulatory agency approval. We face potential product liability exposure and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product or product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. In the future, we anticipate that we will need to obtain additional or increased product liability insurance coverage and it is uncertain that such increased or additional insurance coverage can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Our business (in particular, the use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval) will expose us to product liability risks. Product liability claims might be brought against us by patients, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against any such claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of bioequivalence or clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our products and product candidates. We maintain limited product liability insurance for our bioequivalence and clinical trials, but our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval of any of our product candidates, but we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance on commercially acceptable terms or may not be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential losses. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drug products that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. -34- Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK We currently are not in compliance with NYSE Amex continued listing standards and are at risk of being delisted from the NYSE Amex equities market. Our common stock currently is listed on the NYSE Amex. The NYSE Amex normally will consider suspending dealings in, or removing from the list, securities of an issuer which has stockholders’ equity of less than $6.0 million if such issuer has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. In addition, the NYSE Amex will normally consider suspending dealings in, or removing from the list, securities selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share if the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such stock within a reasonable time after being notified that the NYSE Amex deems such action to be appropriate under the circumstances. Since October 1, 2007 through the date hereof, the closing price of a share of our common stock has been less than $1.00. In June 2009, we have received notice from the NYSE Amex staff that we are not in compliance with certain stockholders’ equity continued listing standards. Specifically, the NYSE Amex staff has noted that we are not in compliance with (1) Section 1003(a)(ii) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide, or the Company Guide, because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $4,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years, or (2) Section 1003(a)(iii) of the Company Guide because we reported stockholders’ equity of less than $6,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years. In addition, the NYSE Amex staff notified us, in accordance with Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide, that it deems it appropriate for us to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock to address its low selling price per share, and that if a reverse stock split is not completed within a reasonable amount of time after June 1, 2009, the NYSE Amex may consider suspending dealings in, or removing from the list, our common stock. To maintain the listing of our common stock on the NYSE Amex, the NYSE Amex required us to submit a plan advising the exchange of the actions we have taken, or will take, to regain compliance with Sections 1003(a)(ii) and (iii) of the Company Guide by December 1, 2010. On July 1, 2009, we submitted a plan to attempt to resolve our listing deficiencies and regain compliance with the continued listing requirements. On July 31, 2009, the NYSE Amex staff notified us that it determined that our plan makes a reasonable demonstration of our ability to regain compliance with the NYSE Amex’s continued listing standards and determined to grant us an extension, until December 1, 2010, for us to regain compliance with the NYSE Amex’s continued listing standards. During this extension period, we will be subject to periodic review to determine whether we are making progress consistent with our plan. If we do not show progress consistent with our plan, the NYSE Amex staff will review the circumstances and may immediately commence delisting proceedings. As of December 31, 2009, our stockholders’ equity was approximately $6.7 million, which meets the NYSE Amex’s stockholders’ equity continued listing standards. However, we have not received notice from the NYSE Amex staff that we have regained compliance with the NYSE Amex’s continued listing standards. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE Amex likely would reduce the trading volume and liquidity in our common stock and may lead to further decreases in the trading price of our common stock. The delisting of our common stock may also materially impair our stockholders’ ability to buy and sell shares of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could significantly impair our ability to raise capital, which is critical to the execution of our business strategy. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock in the secondary market. If our common stock were removed from listing with the NYSE Amex, it may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. -35- Table of Contents The market price of our common stock historically has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock historically has been highly volatile, and the market for our common stock has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. For instance, on October 1, 2007, the market price for our common stock dropped almost 80% following our announcement of the results of our phase 2b clinical trial of CoFactor for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. Conversely, the market price for our common stock more than doubled over two trading days in late December 2009. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • the level of our financial resources; • announcements of entry into or consummation of a financing or strategic transaction; • changes in the regulatory status of our product candidates, including results of any bioequivalence and clinical trials and other research and development programs; • FDA or international regulatory actions and regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events (including bioequivalence and clinical trial results and regulatory events and actions) by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • developments concerning intellectual property rights generally or those of us or our competitors; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our products or product candidates; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or deviations in our business and the trading price of our common stock from the estimates of securities analysts; • events affecting any future collaborations, commercial agreements and grants; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or pursuant to shelf or resale registration statements that register shares of our common stock that may be sold by certain of our current or future stockholders; • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; • commencement of delisting proceedings by the NYSE Amex; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • changes in third-party payor reimbursement policies. As evidenced by the October 1, 2007 decline, the realization of any of the foregoing could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced substantial decline in market price. Moreover, regulatory entities often undertake investigations of investor transactions in securities that experience volatility following an announcement of a significant event or condition. Any such litigation brought against us or investigation involving our investors could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that such sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by, or the perceived possibility of sales by, us or our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. These sales by our existing stockholders might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. In addition, our currently effective resale registration statements on Form S-3 and registration statement on Form S-1 register a significant number of shares of our common stock and securities convertible into our common stock that may be sold by us or certain of our stockholders, which may increase the likelihood of sales by, or the perception of an increased likelihood of sales by, us or our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. -36- Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult, which could depress our stock price. Alternatively, prohibitions on anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may restrict us from acting in the best interests of our stockholders. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our bylaws limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders and establish advance notice requirements for nomination of individuals for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In addition, provisions of certain compensatory contracts with our management, such as equity award agreements with our executive officers, may have an anti-takeover effect by resulting in accelerated vesting of outstanding equity securities held by these officers. In particular, in the event of a change in control, the vesting of options we granted in July 2009 and January 2010 to our current executives will accelerate with respect to fifty percent of the then unvested shares on the day prior to the date of the change in control and, subject to the respective executive’s continuous service, with respect to the remaining fifty percent of the then unvested shares on the one year anniversary of the date of the change in control. As a result, if an acquirer desired to retain the services of one or both of our current executives following an acquisition, it may be required to provide additional incentive to them, which could increase the cost of the acquisition to the acquirer and may deter or affect the terms of the acquisition or potential acquisition. In connection with a July 2005 private placement, we agreed with the investors in that transaction that we would not implement certain additional measures that would have an anti-takeover effect. As a result, under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are prohibited from dividing our board of directors into classes and adopting or approving any “rights plan,” “poison pill” or other similar plan or device. A classified board of directors could serve to protect our stockholders against unfair treatment in takeover situations, by making it more difficult and time-consuming for a potential acquirer to take control of our board of directors. A company may also adopt a classified board of directors to ensure stability in the board of directors and thereby improve long-term planning, which may benefit stockholders. A “poison pill” or similar plan or device may encourage potential acquirers to discuss their intentions with the board of directors of a company and avoid the time, expense and distraction of a hostile take-over. Any benefit to us and our stockholders from instituting a classified board or adopting or approving a “poison pill” or similar plan or device in these and other circumstances is unavailable. Because we do not expect to pay dividends with respect to our common stock in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our common stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, with respect to our common stock, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to various laws and regulations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Due to our intent to retain any future earnings rather than pay cash dividends on our common stock and applicable laws, regulations and contractual obligations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, the success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation and there is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value. -37- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved comments issued by the SEC Staff. 