Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Future Results, Forward-Looking Information And Certain Important Factors In this report we make, and from time to time we otherwise make, written and oral statements regarding our business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of management’s plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends, and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “estimates,” “projects,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should” or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by officers or other representatives made by us to analysts, stockholders, investors, news organizations and others, and discussions with management and other of our representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. 17 In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: Risks Related To Our Business and Operations We have been required to cease the production of the current products of our coal-based chemical production facility. On June 16, 2008, the Tai’an City Government, as part of China’s strengthening of environmental law enforcement reform, issued a notice directing the Company to cease production at our Bangsheng Chemical Facility in Tai’an City due to the close proximity of the Bangsheng Chemical Facility to residential and non-manufacturing business properties. In accordance with the Tai’an City Government’s notice, we ceased production of the current products at our Bangsheng Chemical Facility on October 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our sales of coal-based chemical products were approximately $67.0 million, or 44.8% of our total revenue. There is no assurance that we will succeed in expanding our NPCC business or accomplishing strategic acquisitions or investments in the chemical business going forward, and our revenues and profit could suffer. Subsequent to the cease of production of the current products of our coal-based chemical production facility on October 31, 2008, we generate all of our revenue from sales of our NPCC products and a reduction in revenue from our NPCC products would cause our revenue to decline and could materially harm our business. After we ceased production of the current products at our Bangsheng Chemical Facility on October 31, 2008 in compliance with the directive from the Tai’an City Government, we no longer generate revenue from the sale of coal-based chemical products and derive all of our revenue from the sale of our NPCC products. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our sales of NPCC products were approximately $82.4 million, or 55.2% of our total revenue. Going forward, continued market acceptance of our NPCC products will remain important to our success, and a reduction in revenue from the sale of our NPCC products will materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain our lead in NPCC technology. At present, we are the largest manufacturer of NPCC products in China in terms of production capacity. Our competitive edge depends heavily on the new technology employed in our NPCC manufacturing process. We adopted the ultra gravity precipitation technology in the manufacturing process in our Tai’an facility. In our new facility in Shaanxi, we deployed the membrane-dispersion technology co-developed and co-owned with Tsinghua University. The same membrane-dispersion technology will be utilized in our new facility in Zibo, Shandong, which is currently under construction. We currently have the exclusive right to use this technology. At this time, other than maintaining our own research and development center in Shanghai, we are not working in partnership with any universities or research institutions. The growth of our business and development of new technology may require that we seek external collaborative partners for research and development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into agreements with collaborative partners on terms acceptable to us, if any at all. In addition, if more advanced technology is developed for the manufacturing of NPCC by our competitors, we may lose our competitive advantage and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our NPCC products have limited application. We may not be able to increase the market for our NPCC products. Presently, our existing NPCC products are used as functional additives for tires, PVC building materials, ink, paint, latex, adhesives, paper and PE. Our products, therefore, depend heavily on a limited number of industries. Our growth potential may be limited if we cannot expand the markets for our existing NPCC products or develop new products for other industries. Although we have increased our research and development efforts to expand the range of applications of our NPCC products, there is no assurance that we will succeed in our efforts. 18 We may not be able to continue to produce high-quality NPCC products, which may negatively impact our business. We believe that our NPCC products are in demand because of their high quality. We maintain quality control standard procedures and expect our employees to strictly comply with these procedures. We also apply a distribution control system in NPCC production to ensure process control and stability. If the quality of any of our products deteriorates due to any reason such as the failure to implement our quality control and distribution control systems, delays in shipments, cancellations of orders or customer returns and complaints, then our reputation may be harmed. In addition, we purchase raw materials such as limestone and modification agents from third-party suppliers. We may be unable to exercise the same degree of quality control over these third-party production facilities as we can over our own facilities. Any quality problems associated with the raw materials produced by these third-party producers or suspension of the supply of high-quality raw materials may adversely affect our reputation and cause a decrease in sales of our products and a loss of market share. Our NPCC business depends significantly on the tire industry. If the composition of tires changes and we fail to develop formulas that are applicable to a new composition, our NPCC business could be harmed. In 2008, our NPCC business derived approximately 43.3% of revenues from sales to tire manufacturers. If these customers cease or decrease their orders of NPCC products from us, our NPCC business could be adversely affected. In addition, our modified NPCC products can be used in tire production to obtain desired properties since the current tire composition allows for calcium carbonate as an additive. If the composition of tires changes in the future, modified NPCC products may not be compatible with the change. As a result, our NPCC business could be adversely affected. We have not obtained certain required verification from the local Development and Reform Commission for our operations, which could limit our ability to further expand our operations in the future and adversely affect our business. According to the Provisional Measures for Verification for Foreign Investment Project, or Verification Measures, effective as of October 9, 2004, any project with foreign investment shall apply for and obtain verification from National Development and Reform Commission of China or NDRC or a local branch of the NDRC, depending on certain numerical criteria such as the total investment amount of the project. In addition, any material changes of the scope of a project that has been verified by the NDRC or its local branches shall also be subject to verification by the NDRC or its local branches. Failure to comply with such regulations may prevent the project owner from obtaining other approvals or completing registrations necessary for conducting business including, among other things, approval from local branches of the Ministry of Commerce and registration with local branches of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the State Administration of Taxation, Customs, and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. At the present time, our Shaanxi NPCC facility has filed with the local branch of the NDRC of Qian County, Shaanxi Province, for the production capacity of 120,000 metric tons and is in the process of applying for the production capacity of 40,000 metric tons for our second phase. Since the Verification Measures require verification by the local NDRC with jurisdiction prior to the commencement of projects, the filings made by our Shaanxi facility to the local branch of NDRC of Qian County, Shaanxi Province, may not be sufficient. However, our Shaanxi NPCC facility has obtained other approvals and completed registrations necessary for its operation. Although we have not been subject to any administrative penalties for the lack of the verifications from the local branches of the NDRC as of the date hereof, we cannot assure you that the NDRC will not take such measures against us in the future. If the NDRC or its local branches determine that our failure to obtain the required verifications is not compliant with the Verification Measures, our ability to continue or further expand our operation may be adversely affected. Prior to ceasing production of the current products of our coal-based chemical facility on October 31, 2008, our coal-based chemical manufacturing business involved the controlled use of potentially harmful and hazardous materials and chemicals. Our coal-based chemical manufacturing process produced exhaust gas and waste water which may pollute the environment. If an accident occurred in our coal-based chemical plant, toxic gas and other pollutants may have leaked and caused serious pollution problems and we may become liable to pay damages or fines or undertake other liabilities under the Environmental Protection Law of the PRC, the Safety Administration Regulations for Hazardous Chemicals and other relevant rules and regulations. Moreover, most of our coal-based chemical products are flammable, explosive, and hazardous, and posed a threat to the health and safely of our employees and residents around our facility. If any accident occurred during manufacturing or transportation of these chemicals, we may be subject to significant monetary damages and fines. 19 The Chinese government is tightening its environmental laws and strengthening its enforcement, which could adversely affect our business. With increased environmental awareness among Chinese citizens, the Chinese government is beginning to tighten environmental laws and regulations. The measures include adopting new laws and regulations such as Urban and Rural Planning Law and Regulation on National General Survey of Pollution Sources, and amending existing laws and regulations such as Law of the PRC on the Prevention and Control of Water Pollution. Some of these laws and regulations govern the level of fees payable to government entities providing environmental protection services and the prescribed standards relating to the discharge of solid or liquid wastes and gases. Recently, the Chinese government has stepped up its enforcement efforts due to the occurrence of several significant environmental disasters. If we fail to comply with the PRC environmental protection laws and regulations or if any new or revised environmental laws and regulations are promulgated, we may have to increase capital investments to build or upgrade environmental protection facilities or incur the risk of being subject to fines, and, in either scenario, our business, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. We, our suppliers and our customers are vulnerable to natural disasters which could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We operate multiple facilities and source products from companies that operate facilities, which may be damaged or disrupted as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, and heavy rains, technical disruptions such as electricity or infrastructure breakdowns, computer outages and electronic viruses. Such events may lead to the disruption of information systems and telecommunication services for sustained periods. Such natural disasters also may make it difficult or impossible for our employees to reach our business locations. Damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of products could adversely affect our reputation, our relationships with clients, or cause us to incur substantial additional expenditure to repair or replace damaged equipment or facilities. We may also be liable to our customers for disruption in service resulting from such damage or destruction. Furthermore, the operations of our suppliers could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various materials essential for the manufacturing of our products or result in shortage of our products. If we are unable to procure an adequate supply of raw materials that are required to manufacture our products, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. Our business, financial condition and operating results depend on our customers’ future success with their products, which may fail to achieve the results we and our customers expect. Currently, we supply the tire, PVC building materials, ink, paint, latex, adhesive, paper and PE industries with our NPCC products. The potential for growth and success of our NPCC business largely depends on our customers’ future success in their products. If our customers are not successful in developing their products, their demand for our NPCC products may decrease and our NPCC business may be adversely impacted as a result. The sales cycle for our products is difficult to predict, which may make it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our operating results and could have an adverse effect on our financial results and share price. If our sales cycle lengthens, our quarterly operating results may become less predictable and more volatile. Due to the relatively large size of some orders, a delayed sale could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly revenue and operating results. If our projected revenue does not meet our expectations, we are likely to experience a shortfall in our operating profit relative to our expectations. As a result, we believe that period- to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. It is also possible that our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decrease. We may not be able to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, a failure of which may prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results or detecting and preventing fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. We are required to prepare a management report on our internal control over financial reporting containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Our reporting obligations as a public company may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. 20 In May 2008, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 were restated to correct an overstatement of advances paid to suppliers and an understatement of property and equipment. In January 2007, our consolidated financial statements were restated to correct an overstatement of revenues and selling expenses for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, and 2005. Also, our December 31, 2003 consolidated financial statements were restated to correct an overstatement of general and administrative expenses and an understatement of cost of sales and selling expenses. Our restatements of our prior consolidated financial statements may have exposed us to risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. We are unable to predict what action, if any, the SEC or other regulatory bodies may pursue or what consequences such an action may have on us. We are also unable to predict the likelihood of or potential outcomes from litigation, other regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, if any, relating to the need to restate our historical consolidated financial statements. The resolution of these matters could be time-consuming and expensive, and further distract management from other business concerns and harm our business. Furthermore, if we were subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business and financial condition. Although the restatements we have made did not result in material changes to our previously reported revenues and profits, we cannot assure you that our financial statements will not be restated in a way that causes material changes to our reported revenues and profits in the future. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. The identified material weaknesses relate to (i) the lack of adequate policies and procedures and lack of personnel possessing adequate technical accounting expertise to ensure that transactions are properly accounted for and disclosed in our consolidated financial statements; and (ii) we did not design and maintain effective policies and procedures to ensure adequate maintenance of tax records, timely reconciliation of income tax amounts and adequate analyses and review of deferred tax calculations. As a result, we did not maintain effective internal control over the accounting for income taxes and related financial statement disclosures. We may not be able to successfully carry out our strategic acquisition and investment strategy. Our future success depends in part on our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration and revenue growth. We, therefore, intend to make strategic acquisitions and investments in the chemical business. We cannot assure you however that we will be able to successfully make such strategic acquisitions and investments that will prove to be effective for our business due to certain uncertainties such as delay in obtaining required governmental approvals for making such strategic acquisitions. Strategic acquisitions and investments could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with shared proprietary information and loss of control of operations that are material to our business. Moreover, strategic acquisitions and investments may be expensive to implement and subject us to the risk of non-performance by a counterparty, which may in turn lead to monetary losses that materially and adversely affect our business. Strategic acquisition and investment could also divert our management’s attention as well as other resources away from our core business. Finally, a full integration of the acquired companies into our business may also prove to be difficult, which may hinder or delay our planned growth. 21 The cost of our raw materials fluctuates significantly, which may adversely impact our profit margin and financial position. The prices for the raw materials that we use in the manufacture of our NPCC products and, prior to November 2008, our coal-based chemical products are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including, among other things, the prices of coal and limestone. Both our NPCC and coal-based chemical businesses use coal as a raw material. In the last few years, coal prices have fluctuated substantially. In the period from January 2008 through December 2008, the highest anthracite price was $173.14 per metric ton and the lowest price was $100.03 per metric ton. In 2008, coal accounted for approximately 35.9% and 67.8% of the costs of our NPCC products and coal-based chemical products, respectively. In the past two years, the prices of limestone, another key raw material in our NPCC business, have fluctuated widely and the highest limestone price was $9.71 per ton and the lowest price was $5.79 per ton. In December 2008, the price of limestone purchased for our Tai’an NPCC production facility remained the same as that of November 2008, which was $9.71 per ton. In 2008, limestone accounted for 4.2% of the cost of our NPCC products. The price for coal and limestone may continue to increase in the future due to the rapid development of the Chinese economy. If the price for coal and limestone increases in the future, our profit margin could decrease considerably. We are dependent on our suppliers for key materials such as limestone and modification agent. If we cannot secure such raw materials from our suppliers, our business may be adversely affected. We purchase limestone from suppliers as we do not mine limestone. Currently, we purchase limestone from five suppliers for our NPCC business. We may experience a shortage or interruption in the supply of our raw materials in the future and if any such shortage or interruption occurs, our production capabilities and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. At the present time, we purchase our supply of modification agent used in NPCC production exclusively from two suppliers. If these two suppliers are unwilling or unable to provide us with the modification agent we require in sufficient quantities and at acceptable prices, we would have to resort to our research and development center or alternative suppliers for modification agent supply. We cannot assure you that our research and development center would be able to make modification agent in a timely manner and in sufficient quantities or if alternative suppliers would be able to provide modification agent at commercially acceptable prices, on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner, or at all. Our inability to find or develop alternative sources could adversely affect our business operations. We extend relatively long payment terms for accounts receivable for our NPCC business. If any of our customers fails to pay us, our business may be adversely affected as a result. As is customary in our industry in China, we extend relatively long payment terms to our customers of up to 90 days. As a result of the size of many of our orders, these extended terms adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to fund our operations from operating cash flow. Also, if our customers place large orders for our products, requiring fast delivery, our inventory and working capital may be impacted. If our customers experience sales slowdowns or other issues, they may not pay us in a timely fashion, even on our extended terms. The failure of our customers to pay us in a timely manner would negatively affect our working capital, which could in turn adversely affect our cash flow, revenues and operating results in subsequent periods. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure and we may not be able to meet increased demand for our NPCC products, adversely affecting our operating results. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for existing NPCC products. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · the continued acceptance of our NPCC products by the tire, PVC building materials and other industries; · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · the cost associated with such growth, which is difficult to quantify, but could be significant; · rapid technological change; and · the highly competitive nature of the NPCC industry. 22 If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our NPCC products, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. Meeting any such increased demand will require us to expand our manufacturing facilities, to increase our ability to purchase raw materials, to increase the size of our work force, to expand our quality control capabilities and to increase the scale upon which produce products. Such demands would require more capital and working capital than we currently have available. We cannot assure you that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, research personnel and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. We depend on key members of our management team, research personnel and other key personnel. We do not maintain key employee insurance. If one or more of our executive officers and other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. Each of our executive officers, key research personnel and marketing managers has either entered into a confidentiality and non-competition agreement with us or is subject to confidentiality and non-competition obligations under their employment agreements with us. However, if any disputes arise between our executive officers, key research personnel and marketing managers and us. we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where all of our executive officers reside and hold substantially all of their assets. See “--Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited.” Our business depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property effectively. If any of our patents are not protected or any of our trade secrets are divulged, our business prospects may be harmed. The success of our business depends in substantial measure on the legal protection of the patents which we are licensed to use and co-own with Tsinghua University in China and other proprietary rights in technology we hold. We hold licensed patents in China and co-own a patent. We cannot assure you that our procedures adequately monitor the infringements of our intellectual property rights, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property in China where it may be difficult to enforce the law to protect our proprietary rights as compared to the laws of the United States. The validity and breadth of claims in patents and trade secrets involve complex legal and factual issues and, therefore, the extent of their enforceability and protection is highly uncertain. Issued patents or patents based on pending patent applications or any future patent applications or trade secrets may not exclude competitors from the use of such intellectual propriety or may not provide a competitive advantage to us. In addition, patents that are licensed to us or that have been issued to us may not be held valid if subsequently challenged and others may claim rights in or ownership of such patents. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our competitors have not developed, or will not develop similar products, will not duplicate our products, or will not design around any patents issued to or licensed by us. We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, and trade secrets relating to products and manufacturing processes. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operation through know-how and trade secrets, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, such as nondisclosure agreements, our employees and research partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. In addition, nondisclosure agreements may not be enforceable or provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. For example, NPCC products are differently formulated for different applications. The formulas are maintained as trade secrets and are revealed only to a small number of technical and management personnel. In particular, our trade secrets provide us with a competitive edge in the tire industry, of which only a very few other NPCC manufacturers have successfully entered. If any of our trade secrets are divulged, we could lose our competitive edge in the tire and other industries. In addition, if our competitors independently develop information that is equivalent to our trade secrets, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. 23 We may have difficulties in enforcing our intellectual property rights through litigation. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation . In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. We may not be able to obtain the consent of Tsinghua University for the use of the membrane-dispersion patent by any future subsidiaries. Pursuant to an agreement with Tsinghua University, our Shandong and Shaanxi NPCC facilities have the right to use a membrane-dispersion patent jointly held by Tsinghua University and us, and any third party use of the patent is prohibited without the prior consent of Tsinghua University. In the event that any future subsidiary, including our new NPCC facility in Zibo, Shandong, desires to use the membrane-dispersion patent, we will be required to enter into additional fee arrangements with Tsinghua University. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into such arrangements with Tsinghua University allowing the use by such future subsidiaries of the membrane-dispersion patent under terms and conditions acceptable to us. Risks Related To Our Industry Disruptions in the capital and credit markets related to the current national and worldwide financial crisis, which may continue indefinitely or intensify, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. The current disruptions in the capital and credit markets may continue indefinitely or intensify, and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, or those of our customers and suppliers. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our businesses or conduct acquisitions or make other discretionary investments, as well as our ability to effectively hedge our currency or interest rate. Such disruptions may also adversely impact the capital needs of our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions. China’s commitments to the World Trade Organization may intensify competition. In connection with its accession to the World Trade Organization, China made many commitments including opening its markets to foreign products, allowing foreign companies to conduct distribution businesses and reducing customs duties. As a result, foreign manufacturers may ship their NPCC products into or establish manufacturing facilities in China. Competition from foreign companies may reduce our selling prices, revenue and profit margins, adversely affecting our business. Our failure to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could hurt our operations and reduce our market share. In China, the chemical industry is undergoing increasing regulations as environmental awareness increases in China and our coal-based chemical manufacturing facilities are subject to various pollution control laws and regulations which include Environmental Protection Law of the PRC, the Law of the PRC on the Prevention and Control of Water Pollution, Implementation Rules of the Law of the PRC on the Prevention and Control of Water Pollution, the Law of the PRC on the Prevention and Control of Air Pollution, Safety Administration Regulations for Hazardous Chemicals, the Law of the PRC on the Prevention and Control of Solid Waste Pollution, and the Law of the PRC on the Prevention and Control of Noise Pollution. The trend is that the Chinese government toughens its regulations and penalties for violations of environmental regulations. New regulatory actions are constantly changing our industry. Although we believe we have complied with applicable government regulations in all material aspects, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other NPCC product companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business could suffer. The market for our products is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. Our products compete with a multitude of products developed, manufactured and marketed by others and we expect competition from new market entrants in the future. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the markets for our products are manufacturing capacity, quality of products, price, research and development capability, and customer base. 24 Risks Related To Doing Business In China Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm our business and our operational results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some changes that could have this effect are: · Level of government involvement in the economy; · Control of foreign exchange; · Methods of allocating resources; · Balance of payments position; · International trade restrictions; and · International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economics of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. The economic reforms in China have been conducted under a tight control of the Chinese government. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly and their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property, work safety, labor protection, and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we hold in Chinese properties. 25 A slowdown or other adverse developments in the economy of the PRC may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our products and our business. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC. Although the economy of the PRC has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. In the last quarter of 2008, China’s gross domestic product or GDP growth slowed to 6.8% from 11.1% in the same period in 2007. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC could materially reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China. In recent years. the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past three years, the annual rates of inflation in China were 2.8% in 2006, 6.5% in 2007 and 7.8% in 2008. Expansion and inflation have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. Higher inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the end market for our products. In addition, due to the tightening of credit, we may have difficulties in securing funding from financial institutions in China, which could adversely affect our operations. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi and U.S. Dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, our business, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. If we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. We may not be able to distribute our assets upon liquidation. Our assets are predominately located inside China. Under the laws governing foreign investment enterprises in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to certain procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of liquidation. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC domestic residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. State Administration for Foreign Exchange or SAFE issued a circular in October 2005 requiring PRC domestic residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the circular as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC domestic residents who are stockholders of offshore special purpose companies and have completed round trip investments but did not make foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident stockholders are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE branch in certain circumstances. We are aware that our PRC domestic resident stockholders subject to the SAFE registration requirement have registered with the Shandong SAFE branch and amended their registration upon the share exchange between us and Faith Bloom Limited. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our stockholders who are PRC residents have made all required amendments and will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident stockholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans. 26 As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, setting forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC individuals participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. On March 28. 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC individuals who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a qualified PRC agent or a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who might be granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules which became effective on January 1, 2008, which may subject into PRC income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends or interest we pay to our non-PRC stockholders or noteholders. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law of People’s Republic of China, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules, all domestic and foreign investment companies in China will be subject to a uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%. In addition, dividends from domestic companies to their foreign stockholders will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%, if the foreign investors are considered non-resident enterprises without any establishment or place of operation within China or if the dividends payable have no connection with the establishment or place of the foreign investors within China, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a lower withholding tax rate. Moreover, under the EIT Law, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose “de facto management body” is located in the PRC are treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. Under the implementing rules of the EIT Law, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. Because all of our management is currently based in China, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC EIT Law purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. The impact of the imposition of enterprise income tax will be mitigated to the extent we can obtain a foreign tax credit for such taxes against our U.S. income tax liability on such income. Finally, it is possible that the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends or interest we pay to our non-PRC stockholders or noteholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders or noteholders from transferring our shares or our convertible notes. 27 Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In accordance with the former PRC Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises and the related implementing rules, and as approved by the relevant tax authorities, currently, our PRC subsidiaries are subject to an effective enterprise income tax rate of 15% and a local income tax rate of 1.5%. Under these approvals issued by tax authorities, Shandong Haize Nanomaterials Co., Ltd. and Shandong Bangsheng Chemical Co., Ltd. were exempted from enterprise tax for 2005 and 2006 and were taxed at a reduced rate of 16.5% in 2007 and would be taxed at 12.5% from 2008 to 2009; and Shaanxi Haize Nanomaterials Co., Ltd. was exempted from enterprise tax for 2006 and 2007 and would be taxed at a reduced rate of 12.5% from 2008 to 2010. As these tax incentives expire, our PRC subsidiaries income tax rate will increase significantly, and any increase of our PRC subsidiaries’ income tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The EIT law provides a unified enterprise tax rate of 25% and unified tax deductions standards will be applied equally to both domestic-invested enterprises and foreign invested enterprises such as our PRC subsidiaries. The EIT law also provides a five-year transition period starting from its effective date of those enterprises which were established prior to March 16, 2007. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued the Notice of the Slate Council Concerning Implementation of Transitional Rules for Enterprise Income Tax Incentives, or Circular 39. Pursuant to Circular 39, foreign invested enterprises established prior to March 16, 2007 and eligible for preferential tax treatment, such as our PRC subsidiaries, will continue to enjoy the preferential tax treatment in the manner and during the period as former laws and administrative regulations provided until such period expires. The unified income tax rate of 25% will be applied to our PRC subsidiaries after the expiration of the above-mentioned period of preferential tax treatment. While the EIT law equalizes the tax rates for foreign invested enterprises and domestic companies, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to those classified as high technology companies enjoying special support from the state. We cannot assure you that our PRC subsidiaries who currently enjoyed their respective tax holidays will continue to qualify for any preferential tax treatment after transitional period provided by the EIT law, which could result in a decrease in our profits. Any increase in our effective tax rate as a result of the above may adversely affect our operating results. Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments and making other payments to us or any other affiliated company. We are primarily a holding company and do not conduct any business operations other than our holding of the equity interests in China. As a result, we rely on dividends, consulting and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries in China. Our ability to pay dividends and meet our obligations is partially dependent upon receiving such payments from our subsidiaries in China. PRC regulations permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profits, if any, each year according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds, unless such reserve funds have reached 50% of their respective registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are required to allocate portions of their respective after-tax profits to their enterprise expansion funds and staff welfare and bonus funds at the discretion of their hoards of directors or equivalent governing bodies. Our PRC subsidiaries are obligated to withhold and pay PRC individual income tax in respect of the salaries and certain other income received by their employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If our PRC subsidiaries fail to withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable PRC regulations, they may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on its business. Under PRC laws, our PRC subsidiaries are obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax in respect of the salaries and certain other income received by their employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to certain sanctions and other liabilities under PRC laws in case of failure to withhold and pay individual income taxes for their employees in accordance with the applicable laws. Sales commission is a component of the salary of NPCC salesmen and we do not currently deduct or withdraw income tax for this income. Although we have not received any notice or penalty from PRC tax authorities, we cannot assure you that such notice or penalty will not occur in the future. We have subsequently established relevant tax deduction policies and we believe that such taxes will be effectively deducted or withdrawn in 2009. 28 We have limited business insurance coverage in China, which could harm our business. We are exposed to many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, industrial accidents, power outages, and other business interruptions. Furthermore, if any of our products are faulty, then we may become subject to product liability claims or we may have to engage in a product recall. We do not carry business interruption insurance and as a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian influenza in China, or similar adverse public health developments, may severely disrupt our business and operations. A renewed outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, the Avian Flu or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our revenues are derived from, could have a negative effect on our operations. In addition, there have been confirmed human cases of avian influenza in PRC, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Indonesia, Turkey, Cambodia and other countries which have proven fatal in some instances. If such an outbreak or any other similar epidemic were to spread in China, where our operations are located, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. Such an outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: · quarantines or closures of our manufacturing facilities, which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Risks Related To Our Common Stock The trading prices of many companies that have business operations only in China have been volatile, which may result in large fluctuations in the price of our common stock and losses for investors. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many companies that have business operations exclusively in China. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of many of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of these companies could decrease our stock price regardless of our operating results. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; · announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; · additions or terminations of coverage of our common stock by securities analysts; · statements by securities analysts regarding us or our industry; · conditions or trends in the our industry; and · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other NPCC and chemical companies. 29 The prices at which our common stock trades will affect our ability to raise capital, which may have an adverse affect on our ability to fund our operations. Our common stock may be considered to be a “penny stock” and, as such, the market for our common stock may be further limited by certain SEC rules applicable to penny stocks. To the extent the price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share or we have net tangible assets of $2,000,000 or less, our common shares will be subject to certain “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC. Those rules impose certain sales practice requirements on brokers who sell penny stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000). For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, the broker must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. Furthermore, the penny stock rules generally require, among other things, that brokers engaged in secondary trading of penny stocks provide customers with written disclosure documents, monthly statements of the market value of penny stocks, disclosure of the bid and asked prices, disclosure of the compensation to the brokerage firm, and disclosure of the sales person working for the brokerage firm. These rules and regulations adversely affect the ability of brokers to sell our common shares and limit the liquidity of our securities. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the near future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain in your investment for the foreseeable future. We may incur increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and by The NASDAQ Global Select Market, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements have increased our costs and require additional management resources. Additionally, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We may require additional capital, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Capital raised through the sale of equity securities may result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Failure to obtain such additional capital could have an adverse impact on our business strategies and growth prospects. If our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders choose to act together, they will be able to exert significant influence over us and our significant corporate decisions and may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our executive officers, directors, and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates will beneficially own approximately 44.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these persons, acting together, will have the ability to influence significantly the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, including investors, by, among other things: 30 · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us; · entrenching our management and/or our board of directors; · impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; · discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; or · causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations. We may from time to time incur substantial additional indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks that we face as a result of such indebtedness and leverage could intensify. The increase in the amount of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to generate sufficient cash. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing and repaying indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the businesses and the industries in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors which have less debt; · limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants of such indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds; and · increase the cost of additional financing. Our ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy our outstanding and future debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our anticipated operating expenses or to service our debt obligations as they become due. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net cash inflow from operating activities was $38.9 million. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing existing indebtedness or seeking equity capital. These strategies, if implemented, may not be instituted on satisfactory terms. Any of these constraints upon us could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under our 6.0% convertible senior notes due 2018. Future issuances of shares or equity-related securities may depress the trading price of our shares. Any issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our shares. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity and to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. 31 Sales of a substantial number of shares or other equity-related securities in the public market could depress the market price of our shares, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our shares or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our shares. In addition, the price of our shares could be affected by possible sales of our shares by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of obtaining equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity by investors that we expect to develop involving our convertible note. The market price for our shares may be volatile. The market price of our shares experienced, and may continue to experience, significant volatility. For the period from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008, the trading price of our shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and previously, on the Nasdaq Capital Market has ranged from a low of US$2.67 per share to a high of US$15.57 per share. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our shares. Our articles of incorporation contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our shares. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable, including transactions in which you might receive a premium for your shares. For example, our board of directors has the authority to create and issue, without prior stockholder approval, preferred stock that may have rights senior to those of our common stock and that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our shares, thereby depressing the market price of our shares. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Chapter 78 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. Substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United Slates. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United Stales and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such PRC courts would he competent to hear original actions brought in the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Risks Related To Our 6.0% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2018 The notes are unsecured, are effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness and are structurally subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries, including trade payables. The notes are unsecured, are effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness, to the extent of the assets securing such indebtedness, and are structurally subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries, including trade payables. As of December 31, 2008, our subsidiaries had no short-term bank borrowings or long-term bank borrowings to which the notes would be structurally subordinated. All of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries has guaranteed or otherwise become obligated with respect to the notes. Our right to receive assets from any of our subsidiaries upon its liquidation or reorganization, and the right of holders of the notes to participate in those assets, is structurally subordinated to claims of that subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors. Even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any indebtedness of that subsidiary senior to that held by us. Furthermore, none of our subsidiaries is under any obligation to make payments to us, and any payments to us would depend on the earnings or financial condition of our subsidiaries and various business considerations. Statutory, contractual or other restrictions may also limit our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions, loans or advances to us. For these reasons, we may not have access to any assets or cash flows of our subsidiaries to make payments on the notes. 32 We have made only limited covenants in the indenture for the notes, and these limited covenants may not protect your investment. The indenture for the notes does not: · require us to maintain any financial ratios or specific levels of net worth, revenues, income, cash flows or liquidity and, accordingly, does not protect holders of the notes in the event that we experience significant adverse changes in our financial condition or results of operations; · restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to issue securities that would be senior to the shares of our subsidiaries held by us; · restrict our ability to repurchase our securities; · restrict our ability to pledge our assets or those of our subsidiaries · restrict our ability to make investments or to pay dividends or make other payments in respect of our shares, or other securities ranking junior to the notes; or · restrict our ability to incur indebtedness in an amount not exceeding $15 million. Furthermore, the indenture for the notes contains only limited protections in the event of a change in control. We could engage in many types of transactions, such as acquisitions, refinancings or recapitalizations, which could substantially affect our capital structure and the value of the notes and our shares but may not constitute a “fundamental change” that permits holders to require us to repurchase their notes. For these reasons, the noteholder should not consider the covenants in the indenture or the repurchase features of the notes as a significant factor in evaluating whether to invest in the notes. Because we have not registered the notes and the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes, the noteholders will have a limited ability to resell them. We have not registered the notes or the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. Unless they are registered, noteholders may not offer or sell the notes or the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes except pursuant to exemptions from the registration and qualification requirements of federal and state securities law. Although we have agreed to file and make effective a registration statement under the Securities Act with respect to the notes and the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes, we may not be able to do so by and during the time periods we have agreed to do so. In addition, the registration rights agreement we entered into with the initial purchasers will permit us to prohibit offers and sales of the notes pursuant to that registration statement for a period of up to an aggregate of 30 days (or, under certain circumstances, 60 days) in any 90 days period or an aggregate of 90 days in any 12-month period. Holders of the notes must also take certain actions, including completing and submitting a questionnaire, and undertake certain obligations, before we are required to register their notes or the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes. For these reasons, the noteholder may not be able to resell their notes or shares issuable upon conversion of the notes. In addition, holders who sell their notes under the registration statement we agree to file may have certain potential liability under the Securities Act. The increase in the conversion rate applicable to notes that holders convert in connection with a make-whole change of control may not adequately compensate you for the lost option time value of your notes that result from that make-whole change of control. If a make-whole change of control occurs, we will under certain circumstances increase the conversion rate applicable to holders who convert their notes within a specified time frame. The amount of the increase in the conversion rate depends on the date when the make- whole change of control becomes effective and the applicable price described in this offering memorandum. Although the increase in the conversion rate is designed to compensate the noteholder for the lost option time value of their notes as a result of the make-whole change of control, the increase in the conversion rate is only an approximation of the lost value and may not adequately compensate the noteholder for the loss. In addition, the noteholder will not be entitled to an increased conversion rate if the applicable price is greater than US$150 per share or less than US$15 per share (in each case, subject to adjustment). 33 Our obligation to increase the conversion rate as described above also could be considered a penalty, in which case its enforceability would be subject to general principles of reasonableness of economic remedies. We may be unable to raise the funds to pay interest on the notes, to purchase the notes on the purchase dates, upon a fundamental change or at maturity. The notes initially bear interest semi-annually at a rate of 6.0%, and we, in certain circumstances, are obligated to pay additional interest. On June 1, 2011 and June 1, 2013, holders may require us to purchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes, at 100% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, that date. If fundamental change occurs, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their notes. We are obligated to pay the principal amount of the notes outstanding at the maturity date. We may not have sufficient funds for any required repurchase of the notes or required payment of principal return or interest, and we may have to refinance our credit facilities in order to make payments under the notes. In addition, the terms of any borrowing agreements which we may enter into from time to time may require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances similar to those constituting a fundamental change. These agreements may also make our repurchase of notes an event of default under such agreements. If we fail to pay interest on the notes or repurchase the notes when required, we will be in default under the indenture governing the notes. The conversion rate of the notes may not be adjusted for all dilutive events. The conversion rate of the notes is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events, including, but not limited to, the issuance of share dividends on our shares, the issuance of certain rights or warrants, subdivisions, combinations, distributions of share capital, indebtedness or assets, cash dividends and certain issuer tender or exchange offers. Such conversion rate will not be adjusted, however, for other events, such as a third party tender or exchange offer or an issuance of shares for cash, any of which may adversely affect the trading price of the notes or our shares. In addition, an event that adversely affects the value of the notes may occur, and that event may not result in an adjustment to the conversion rate. Certain significant restructuring transactions may not constitute a fundamental change, in which case we would not be obligated to offer to purchase the notes. The fundamental change provisions will only afford protection to holders of the notes upon the occurrence of certain transactions. Other transactions such as leveraged recapitalizations, refinancings, restructurings, or acquisitions initiated by us may not constitute a fundamental change. In the event of any such transaction, the holders would not have the right to require us to purchase the notes, even though each of these transactions could increase the amount of our indebtedness, or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure or any credit ratings, thereby adversely affecting the value of notes. Because your right to require repurchase of the notes is limited, the market price of the notes may decline if we enter into a transaction that is not a fundamental change under the indenture relating to the notes. The term “fundamental change” is limited and may not include every event that might cause the market price of the notes to decline or result in a decrease in creditworthiness of the notes. The term “fundamental change” does not apply to certain transactions in which at least 90% of the consideration paid for our shares in a merger or similar transaction is securities traded on a United States national securities exchange. Our obligation to repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change may not preserve the value of the notes in the event of a highly leveraged transaction, reorganization, merger or similar transaction. If you hold notes, you are not entitled to any rights with respect to our shares, but you are subject to all changes made with respect to our shares. If you hold notes, you are not entitled to any rights with respect to our shares (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our shares), but you are subject to all changes affecting the shares. You will only be entitled to rights on the shares if and when we deliver shares to you in exchange for your notes. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our certificate of incorporation or articles of association requiring stockholders approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to delivery of the shares, you will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although you will nevertheless be subject to any resulting changes in the powers, preferences or special rights that affect our shares. 34 If an active and liquid trading market for the notes does not develop, the market price of the notes may decline and the noteholders may be unable to sell the notes. The notes are a new issue of securities for which there is currently no public market, and no active trading market might ever develop. If the notes are traded after their initial issuance, they may trade at a discount from their initial offering price, depending on prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities, the price and volatility in the price, of our shares, our performance and other factors. In addition, we do not know whether an active trading market will develop for the notes. To the extent that an active trading market does not develop, the liquidity and trading prices for the notes may be harmed. We have no plans to list the notes on a securities exchange; however, the notes sold to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A will be eligible for The Portal Market at the time of issuance thereof. Any market-making activity, if initiated, may be discontinued at any time, for any reason or for no reason, without notice. The liquidity of any market for the notes will depend upon the number of holders of the notes, our results of operations and financial condition, the market for similar securities, the interest of securities dealers in making a market in the notes and other factors. An active or liquid trading market for the notes may not develop, and you may be unable to resell your notes or may only be able to sell them at a substantial discount. Provisions of the notes could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or any portion of the principal amount of such notes in integral multiples of US$1,000. We may also be required to issue additional shares upon conversion in the event of certain fundamental changes. Transfers of the notes and the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes will be restricted. We are offering the notes and the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes in reliance upon exemptions from registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. As a result you may transfer or resell the notes and the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes only in a transaction registered in accordance with, or exempt from, these registration requirements. To the extent a holder receives shares upon conversion of the notes that are not restricted shares, such shares may be sold over the Nasdaq Global Select Market without needing to rely on the shelf registration statement. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement described herein, we have agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts to file a registration statement with the SEC to register resale of the notes, the issuance of shares issuable upon conversion of the notes and the resale of such shares and to cause the registration statement to be effective. If we do not comply with our registration obligations with respect to the notes, we will be obligated to pay additional interest to holders of the notes. Selling securityholders who sell notes or shares issuable upon conversion of the notes pursuant to a shelf registration statement may be subject to certain restrictions and potential liability under the Securities Act. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the SEC. Item 