RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this report in evaluating us and our business. The market price of our equity shares or ADSs could decline due to any of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business We expect to continue to encounter increased competition in each of our markets, which could reduce our revenues. The Indian government is rapidly liberalizing the telecommunications industry in India. The Department of Telecommunications (DOT) may license, at its discretion, multiple additional service providers in any service area, with respect to both basic telecommunications services and cellular services. In November 2003, the Department issued guidelines for Unified Access Licenses, which cover both basic and cellular services within a service area. In the Indian context, “basic telecommunications services” or “basic services” include basic fixed-line access service and a number of other telecommunications services, other than long distance services, cellular service and Internet access. Basic services also include CDMA-based fixed wireless and mobile services (without roaming). Tata Teleservices Limited and Reliance Infocomm Limited are currently competing with us in the market for basic services in both Mumbai and Delhi, and Bharti Tele-Ventures Limited is also competing with us in the basic services market in Delhi and Mumbai. All of these companies already have significant telecommunications infrastructure in Delhi and Mumbai, including, with respect to Tata Teleservices and Reliance Infocom, low-cost CDMA mobile and fixed wireless technology. With approximately 67.33% of our call units having come from approximately 18.75% of our access lines in service, we are particularly vulnerable to losing market share if these or other new operators aggressively target our largest subscribers. Some of our largest customers have already migrated to other basic service operators. We experience significant and growing competition in the market for GSM cellular and Internet services. Many of these service providers enjoy significant penetration in these markets, have established brand names and have more experience operating a cellular network than we do. Cellular operators also face competition from rapidly growing CDMA-based mobile services, which are priced considerably lower than GSM cellular services. Increased competition has kept and will likely continue to keep downward pressure on prices and has required and will likely continue to require us to increase our capital investment to improve and expand our services. These developments, in turn, have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our profitability. Our Business is Subject to Substantial Regulation by the Government. The DOT retains the right to revoke our license after giving one month’s notice to us. The DOT also retains the right, after giving notice to us, to modify the terms and conditions of our license at any time if in their opinion it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunications sector. A revocation of the license or a change in significant terms of the license, such as its duration, the amount of license fee payable, the range of services permitted and the scope of exclusivity could limit our ability to operate particular lines of our business or result in increased costs in the form of increased license fees or costs associated with applying for new licenses, or contesting limitations on our licenses. Regulations applicable to public sector enterprises in India governing certain personnel matters, procurement, capital expenditure and the issuance of securities may affect our ability to compete effectively. As long as the Indian government’s shareholding in us equals or exceeds 51%, we are deemed to be an Indian government company. As such, we are subject to laws and regulations generally applicable to public sector enterprises in India. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, personnel matters, procurement, budgeting and capital expenditures and the generation of funds through the issuance of securities. 5 Table of Contents Under our articles of association, the President of India, on behalf of the Indian government, may also issue directives with respect to the conduct of our business and affairs, and certain matters with respect to our business, including the appointment and remuneration of our Chairman-cum-Managing Director and the declaration of dividends. None of our shareholders, management or board of directors may take action in respect of any matter reserved for the President of India without his approval. If the President of India does not allow us to make capital expenditures pursuant to our business plan, we may be unable to compete effectively or maintain profitability. Government formalities, including requirements that many of our purchases be made through a competitive bidding process, often cause delays in our equipment and product procurement; these delays can place us at a disadvantage relative to private sector competitors. The Indian government, our controlling shareholder, when considering matters pertaining to us, often also considers the interests of the largest government-owned telecommunications company, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL). The Indian government is evaluating the possibility of a merger of our Company with BSNL. The Indian government, through the DOT, holds 56.25% of our outstanding equity shares and 100% of BSNL’s equity shares. Consequently, the DOT controls both of us. The DOT has the power to determine the outcome of most actions requiring approval of our board of directors or shareholders, including proposed expansion of our basic and cellular services into new areas in which we may compete with BSNL, transactions with BSNL or the assertion of claims against BSNL. When considering many of these matters, the DOT may also take into account the interests of BSNL. Failure by the DOT to resolve conflicts involving us and BSNL in an equitable manner could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. India’s Ministry of Communications has appointed private sector banks to act as consultants to advise on restructuring BSNL and us. We understand that these consultants have submitted their reports. There have been media reports about consideration of a merger of our companies or the transfer by the DOT of their shares in us to BSNL or to a holding company that would control both us and BSNL. There are no further announcements on this. We cannot assess the likelihood of such a transaction, or the impact of such a transaction on our business or the value of our shares or ADSs. We have significant related party transactions. The Indian Government is our controlling shareholder and hence we are deemed to be an Indian government company. As such, we are subject to laws and regulations generally applicable to public sector enterprises in India. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, personnel matters, procurement, budgeting and capital expenditures and the generation of funds through the issuance of securities. We have extensive commercial and regulatory relationships with the DOT and BSNL, most of which were established at the time when there was no corporate separation between the DOT, BSNL and us. Also the Indian Government when considering matters pertaining to us, often also considers the interests of the largest government-owned telecommunications company, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL). We have significant amounts due from related party and our inability to collect them or change in the terms of our arrangements with our related parties could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. See Notes [3, 4, 19 and 25] to our consolidated financial statements. We do not have title to property, and we cannot sell our properties without payment of stamp duties and registering properties in our name. In 1987, the assets and properties of the DOT located in Delhi and Mumbai were transferred to us by an order of the Government of India (the “Government”) and a deed of sale was executed by the Government in our favor representing an irrevocable transfer. Indian law generally requires that to perfect the transfer or lease of real property, the transfer should be evidenced by a formal, duly stamped deed of transfer and registered with the Central Land Registrar within a specified period after the execution of the deed of transfer or lease. A formal transfer deed for real property of the DOT, transferred by the Government to us has been executed but has not been registered with the appropriate municipal authorities. The formal transfer deed and physical delivery of possession of the DOT’s non-real estate assets has resulted in the transfer of such non-real estate assets of the DOT to us in Delhi and Mumbai. 6 Table of Contents Indian law also requires payment of stamp duty (at rates which vary among states) on instruments, which effect transfer of title to real estate or in respect of leases of real estate. We have not paid stamp duty in respect of any of the acquired or leased properties. Accordingly, we may be liable for stamp duty and penalties thereon if a deed is registered by us in the future (other than with respect to the DOT properties acquired from the Government as at March 30, 1987). All liabilities for stamp duties in respect of the DOT properties acquired by us from the Government as at March 30, 1987 are to be borne by the Government. We have been advised by our counsel that although we have valid possession including the risks and rewards of ownership and title to all of our property to enable us to perfect and thereby acquire marketable title to real property in our possession, we would need to have relevant documents relating to transfer or lease of real property duly registered and stamped. Accordingly, we cannot sell our properties without payment of stamp duties and registering the properties in our name. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations, the NYSE, rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, rules, and Indian stock market listing regulations are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time, as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such corporate governance standards. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We consistently assess the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, remediate any control deficiencies that may be identified, and validate through testing that our controls are functioning as documented. As of March 31, 2007, our disclosure controls and procedures were made effective. We have improved our internal controls over financial reporting and have consulted with our audit committee and board of directors, and are planning to undertake remedial measures for further improvements. We have received a demand to pay sales tax in respect of certain historical telecommunications revenues, mainly telephone rental charges. We are not yet able to estimate our potential aggregate liability, but it could be large and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We have received a demand from the state government of Maharashtra, of which Mumbai is a part, for payment of Rs.1.9 billion in sales tax for fiscal 1989-2000 on certain telecommunications revenues, mainly telephone rental charges. We have challenged the demands raised before the respective high courts and we have been granted interim stays against enforcement of the demand. However this stay order is subject to the outcome of the Supreme Court judgment on the issue. During the year ended March 31, 2006, the Supreme Court of India has concluded in the BSNL Vs Union of India case that rendering basic services does not amount to a “transfer of right to use the telephone system”. Hence the imposition of the sales tax on any facility of the telecommunication services is untenable in law. Based on opinion received from legal counsel and drawing reference to the judgment of the Supreme Court of India in the abovementioned case, management believes that the sales tax departments would have to withdraw their demands of sales tax on basic telephony and that an adverse outcome in respect of the above is remote. The legal case filed in the Sales Tax Tribunal Maharashtra has been remanded to the Commissioner to reconsider the issue in light of the above Supreme Court judgment. If we were required to pay sales tax in respect of certain historical revenues, including telephone rentals, such payments could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. At this time, we cannot estimate potential aggregate actual liability associated with sales tax. 7 Table of Contents We have and may continue to implement Voluntary Retirement Schemes that will affect our profitability. We have and continue to offer voluntary retirement to certain of our employees with a view to reducing our workforce. While we believe the long-term effect to our financial performance will be beneficial, the cost of such programs will affect our profitability over the next few years. Risks Relating to Investments in Indian Companies There are Risks of Political Uncertainty in India that could affect our business. During the past decade, the government of India has pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. A coalition government is in power. We cannot assure that these liberalization policies will continue in the future. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and could adversely affect the telecommunications licensing and regulatory framework in which we operate our business. Financial instability in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia, could adversely affect the Indian economy and cause our business and the market for our equity shares and ADSs to suffer. Financial turmoil in Asia, Russia and elsewhere in the world in the late 1990s affected different sectors of the Indian economy in varying degrees. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can have adverse effects on the securities of companies in other countries, including India. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of other emerging markets may cause increased volatility in Indian financial markets and, indirectly, in the Indian economy in general. Any worldwide financial instability could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and ADSs. Social conflict, terrorism and related military activity may adversely affect the Indian economy or world economic activity, either of which could adversely affect our business and the prices of our equity shares and ADSs. India and other parts of the world have recently experienced significant social conflict and/or terrorist acts. In India, social conflict, including religious and regional/separatist conflicts, has been an ongoing problem, which occasionally includes significant acts of terrorism. To the extent that the Indian economy is adversely affected by such conflict, terrorism or military activity, our business may also be adversely affected, resulting in a decline in revenue, and the prices of our equity shares and ADSs may decline. Risks Relating to the ADSs and Equity Shares Ability to withdraw equity shares from the depositary facility is uncertain and may be subject to delays. India’s restrictions on foreign ownership of Indian companies limit the number of shares that may be owned by foreign investors and generally require government approval for foreign ownership. The maximum foreign ownership permitted in us without prior governmental approval is 49% under the sectoral caps currently provided for by the government of India and the Reserve Bank of India. Investors who withdraw equity shares from the depositary facility will be subject to Indian regulatory restrictions on foreign ownership of equity shares upon withdrawal. It is possible that this withdrawal process may be subject to delays. Ability to sell in India any equity shares withdrawn from the depositary facility may be subject to delays. 8 Table of Contents Persons seeking to sell in India any equity shares withdrawn upon surrender of an ADS will require Reserve Bank of India approval for each such transaction. Because of possible delays in obtaining necessary approvals, holders of equity shares may be prevented from realizing gains during periods of price increases or limiting losses during periods of price declines. Ability to withdraw and redeposit shares in the depositary facility is limited, which may cause our equity shares to trade at a discount or premium to the market price of our ADSs. Because of Indian legal restrictions, despite recent relaxations, the supply of ADSs may be limited. Under procedures recently adopted by the Reserve Bank of India, the depositary will be permitted to accept deposits of our outstanding equity shares and deliver ADSs representing the deposited equity shares to the extent, and limited to the number, of ADSs that have previously been converted into underlying equity shares. Under these new procedures, if you elect to surrender your ADSs and receive equity shares, you may be unable to re-deposit those outstanding equity shares with our depositary and receive ADSs because the number of new ADSs that can be issued cannot, at any time, exceed the number of ADSs converted into underlying equity shares or result in foreign equity in us exceeding 49%. This may restrict your ability to re-convert the equity shares obtained by you to ADSs. Also, investors who exchange ADSs for the underlying equity shares and are not holders of record will be required to declare to us details of the holder of record. Any investor who fails to comply may be liable for a fine of up to Rs.1,000 for each day such failure continues. See “Additional Information—Indian Foreign Exchange Controls and Securities Regulations.” The restrictions described above may cause our equity shares to trade at a discount or premium to our ADSs. Conditions in the Indian securities market may affect the price or liquidity of the equity shares and the ADSs. The Indian securities markets are generally smaller and more volatile than securities markets in the world’s major financial centers. Indian stock exchanges have also experienced problems that have affected the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies. These problems have included temporary exchange closures, the suspension of stock exchange administration, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Further, from time to time, disputes have occurred between listed companies and stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which, in some cases, may have had a negative effect on market sentiment. Similar problems could happen in the future and, if they do, they could affect the market price and liquidity of our equity shares and our ADSs. Because there may be less company information available in Indian securities markets than securities markets in more developed countries, the price of our equity shares could fluctuate unexpectedly. There is a difference between the level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities market and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants and that of markets in the United States and other developed economies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India is responsible for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has issued regulations and guidelines on disclosure requirements, insider trading and other matters. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in developed economies. As a result, shareholders could act on incomplete information and cause the price of our equity shares to fluctuate unexpectedly. ADS holders may be unable to exercise preemptive rights available to shareholders and therefore may suffer future dilution of their ownership position. A company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless these rights have been waived by at least 75% of the company’s shareholders present 9 Table of Contents and voting at a shareholders’ general meeting. Holders of our ADSs as well as our shareholders located in the United States may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for our equity shares underlying our ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling investors in our ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. We do not commit that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such rights in the future, the rights would be issued to the depositary, which may sell the rights in the securities markets in India for the benefit of the holders of our ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the depositary would receive upon the sale of the rights. To the extent that holders of our ADSs as well as our shareholders located in the United States are unable to exercise preemptive rights, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. ADS holders may be subject to potential losses arising out of exchange rate risk on the Indian rupee and risks associated with the conversion of rupee proceeds into foreign currency. Holders of ADSs as well as our shareholders located outside India will be subject to currency fluctuation risks and convertibility risks, since our equity shares are quoted in rupees on the Indian stock exchanges on which they are listed. Dividends on our equity shares will also be paid in rupees, and then converted into US dollars for distribution to ADS holders. Holders that seek to convert the rupee proceeds of a sale of equity shares withdrawn upon surrender of ADSs into foreign currency and export the foreign currency will need to obtain the approval of the Reserve Bank of India for each transaction. In addition, holders that seek to sell equity shares withdrawn from the depositary facility will have to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India, unless the sale is made on a stock exchange or in connection with an offer made under the regulations regarding takeovers. Holders of rupees in India may also generally not purchase foreign currency without general or special approval from the Reserve Bank of India. ADS holders may be subject to Indian taxes arising out of capital gains. Generally, capital gains, whether short-term or long-term, arising on the sale of the underlying equity shares in India are subject to Indian capital gains tax. For the purpose of computing the amount of capital gains subject to tax, Indian law specifies that the cost of acquisition of the equity shares will be deemed to be the share price prevailing on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai or the National Stock Exchange on the date the depositary advises the custodian to deliver equity shares upon surrender of ADSs. The period of holding of equity shares, for determining whether the gain is long-term or short-term, commences on the date of the giving of such notice by the depositary to the custodian. Investors are advised to consult their own tax advisers and to consider carefully the potential tax consequences of an investment in our ADSs. ADS holders may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of India. All our directors and executive officers are residents of India and almost all of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in India. India is not a party to any international treaty in relation to the recognition or enforcement of foreign judgments. We have been advised by counsel that recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments is provided for on a statutory basis and that foreign judgments shall be conclusive regarding any matter directly adjudicated upon except where: · the judgment has not been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction; · the judgment has not been given on the merits of the case; · it appears on the face of the proceedings that the judgment is founded on an incorrect view of international law or a refusal to recognize the law of India in cases in which Indian law is applicable; 10 Table of Contents · the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice; · the judgment has been obtained by fraud; or · the judgment sustains a claim founded on a breach of any law in force in India. It may not be possible for holders of our ADSs or our shareholders to effect service of process upon us or our directors and executive officers and experts named in the report that are residents of India outside India or to enforce judgments obtained against us or them in foreign courts predicated upon the liability provisions of foreign countries, including the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Moreover, it is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. An Indian court may not enforce a foreign judgment involving more than actual and quantifiable damages. Although announced policy indicates there is no intention to do so, possible sales of our equity shares by the government of India could affect the value of our ADSs. The government of India holds approximately 56.25% of our outstanding equity shares. There have been no indications that the current government of India plans to further reduce its shareholding in us through a sale of equity. Any future disposal of equity shares by the Indian government could adversely affect the trading price of our equity shares and ADSs. Item 4. Information on the Company HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY History and Development of the Indian Telecommunications Industry Until the mid-1980s, the telecommunications sector in India was a monopoly controlled by the government of India through the Department of Posts and Telegraphs of the Ministry of Communications, providing all telecommunications services, both domestic and international. The Indian Telegraph Act of 1885 established the government of India’s monopoly in the sector and, together with the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act of 1933, provided the legal framework for the regulation of the Indian telecommunications industry. Development of the telecommunications sector historically was seen as a relatively low priority and received limited budgetary support from the government of India. As a result, the telecommunications infrastructure in India grew relatively slowly. In the mid-1980s, faced with rapidly increasing demand for telecommunications services and equipment, the government of India commenced a reorganization of the sector designed to facilitate the rapid introduction of new technology, stimulate the growth of the telecommunications industry and tap the resources of the private sector in facilitating such technological innovation and growth. The reorganization included the division of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs into the DOT and the Department of Posts. As part of the reorganization, we were incorporated on February 28, 1986 under the Companies Act as a wholly-owned government of India company and, on April 1, 1986, assumed responsibility for the control, management and operation of the telecommunications networks in Delhi and Mumbai, two of the largest metropolitan areas in India. VSNL was established at the same time to provide international telecommunications services and the DOT retained responsibility for providing all other telecommunications services throughout India. The DOT also assumed regulatory authority over the Indian telecommunications industry. Simultaneously, the Telecom Commission was established in 1986 as an executive body under the Ministry of Communications to make policy decisions and to accelerate the development of all aspects of the telecommunications sector and the implementation of new telecommunications policies. 11 Table of Contents In December 1991, with a view to fulfilling its objective of facilitating the rapid introduction of new services and technology, the DOT invited bids from Indian companies with a maximum of 49% foreign ownership for two non-exclusive GSM cellular licenses in each of the cities of Kolkata (formerly called Calcutta), Chennai (formerly called Madras), Delhi and Mumbai. The private operators commenced cellular services in late 1995. In October 1997 we were permitted to provide GSM cellular service in Mumbai and Delhi. Beginning in 1995, the DOT also invited tenders and awarded cellular licenses for the regional “circles” established for the purpose of licensing cellular services in the rest of India. We believe that as of July 31, 2007, there were approximately 136 million cellular subscribers in India. Since 1992, as part of its general policy of gradually reducing its holdings in public sector enterprises, the Indian government sold a portion of its equity holdings in us and VSNL to certain mutual funds, banks and financial institutions controlled by the government of India. In our 1997 global depositary receipt offering, the Indian government sold 40 million of our equity shares represented by 20 million global depositary receipts, constituting 6.3% of our then outstanding equity shares. Additionally, in 1997 and 1999, the Indian government sold additional equity shares of VSNL in the form of global depositary receipts, thereby reducing its equity interest in the company to 51%. In February 2002, the government of India divested an additional 25% interest in VSNL to the Tata Group through a competitive bidding process. In May 1994, the government of India announced its National Telecom Policy, which was aimed at achieving accelerated telecommunications growth and network expansion. The broad objectives of this policy were higher national telephone penetration, reduction of waiting lists, improvement in the quality of networks, improved rural access to telecommunications services, introduction of value-added services and private sector participation in the provision of basic and cellular services. In order to achieve these objectives, the Indian government decided to permit private sector involvement in basic telecommunications services, which, in the Indian context, includes basic fixed-line access service and a number of other telecommunications services (including CDMA-based fixed wireless and mobile services (without roaming)), other than long distance services, cellular service and Internet access. Accordingly, in September 1994 the Indian government announced its “Guidelines for Private Sector Entry into Basic Telecom Services,” and beginning in 1995 began to invite tenders from companies with no more than 49% foreign ownership for basic service licenses for the regional “circles” established for licensing basic telecommunications services. After a period of consolidation, the most prominent private-sector providers of basic telecommunications services currently include Bharti Tele-Ventures Limited, Tata Teleservices and Reliance Infocomm, each of which operates in multiple circles. Tata Teleservices and Reliance Infocomm both operate in the circles that include Mumbai and Delhi, and hence now compete with us in those areas. Bharti Tele-Ventures Limited also provides basic services in Delhi. In February 1997, a multilateral agreement on basic telecommunications services was agreed to among member governments of the World Trade Organization. As part of this agreement, the Indian government has reaffirmed its commitment to further liberalize the Indian telecommunications sector through the licensing of new basic and cellular service providers. In March 1997, the government established the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), an independent regulatory authority with broad regulatory powers over the telecommunications industry in India, including the power to set rates on domestic and international telecommunications services and determine the terms and conditions of interconnect arrangements between service providers. These regulatory powers had previously been vested in the DOT, which controls us and is part of the Ministry of Communications. However, the power to grant, renew or revoke licenses remains with the DOT. In November 1998, the government of India announced its Internet policy, which aims to increase Internet usage by, among other things, allowing up to 49% foreign ownership of Internet service providers (ISPs) and declaring a license fee moratorium for five years (Currently the foreign ownership limit for ISPs is up to 74% in most cases.) In March 1999, the government of India announced its New Telecom Policy 1999 which sets forth as one of its central goals the fostering of increased competition in the Indian telecommunications industry and the liberalization of government telecommunications regulation. 12 Table of Contents Additionally, effective May 1, 1999, the TRAI implemented the 1999 tariff order pursuant to which the TRAI seeks to align tariffs charged by service providers with the corresponding costs associated with such services so as to limit cross-subsidization of services by a provider while allowing providers to set tariffs at any level below certain maximum levels. The TRAI has since adjusted tariffs several times under the tariff order. In October 1999, the DOT, which had both performed the role of licensor and policy maker for the Ministry of Communications and operated as India’s domestic long distance service provider and basic service provider (except for the areas of Delhi and Mumbai, which are covered by us), was bifurcated into two departments. The DOT/Telecom Commission, or the DOT, now performs the role of licensor and policy maker, and the Department of Telecom Services, functions as the government of India’s local and long distance network service provider. In October 2000, the Department of Telecom Services’ local and long distance business was corporatized into a new company named BSNL. The Indian government has also recently established an independent Information Technology Department within the Ministry of Communications (now formally known as the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology). The IT department will, among other things, promote the Internet, e-commerce and knowledge based industries. Internet licensing functions will remain with the DOT. The DOT controls the equity shares in us that are held by the Indian government and appoints all of the directors on our 12-seat board. Two of our board seats are for DOT officers. 13 Table of Contents The following chart illustrates the current operational and regulatory structure of India’s telecommunications services industry: In November 2003, the DOT issued guidelines for Unified Access License which cover within a service area both basic telecommunications services and cellular services. In the Indian context, “basic telecommunications services” or “basic services” include basic fixed-lined access service and a number of other telecommunications services, other than long distance services, cellular service and Internet access. Basic services also include CDMA-based fixed wireless and mobile services (without roaming). We have submitted a request to the DOT to migrate to UAS Licenses for our service area under mobile licenses for Delhi and Mumbai to be able to provide services at par 14 Table of Contents with other operators in these areas. In September 2006, our request for migration of our CMTS Licenses to UAS Licenses as our operating cellular service in the licensed area was not accepted by the DOT. In October 2006, we sought reconsideration and grant of permission for migration to UAS Licenses. On November 22, 2006, the DOT issued the instructions that “The licensee shall ensure adequate verification of each and every customer before enrolling him as a subscriber. Instructions issued by the licensor in this regard from time to time shall be scrupulously followed.” For ensuring that the complete subscriber information is available with all the service providers and the same is duly verified, the DOT also decided that each licensee shall take up re-verification of the existing subscribers on priority and ensure that the re-verification of the existing subscribers is completed by March 31, 2007. By re-verification, it is meant that there shall be 100% check of CAF/SAF documentary proof of identity and documentary proof of address and it would be ensured that the subscriber information available in service provider’s database matches with that in CAF/SAF and associated documents. Further the licensee company would cross-verify the information from the actual user by calling the respective subscriber. There shall not be any connection working after March 31, 2007 in licensee’s network without having the subscriber information duly verified. After March 31, 2007, if any subscriber number is found working without proper verification, a minimum penalty of Rs. 1000 per violation of subscriber number verification would be levied on the licensee apart from immediate disconnection of the subscriber number by the licensee. In response of the above DOT instructions, our GSM subscriber base reduced from approximately 2.7 million to 2.5 million during the period March 2007 to April 2007. Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited is the principal provider of fixed-line and other basic telecommunications services in Delhi and Mumbai. Delhi and Mumbai are two of the largest, most densely populated and wealthiest metropolitan areas in India. At the end of fiscal 2007 our fixed-line telecommunications networks in Delhi and Mumbai had an aggregate of approximately 3.80 million fixed lines in service. In February 2001, we launched our cellular services using global system for mobile communications, or GSM, technology in Delhi and Mumbai and had approximately 2.75 million subscribers as of March 31, 2007. GSM is the European and Asian standard for digital mobile telephone networks. We launched CDMA-based services in 1997, and at the end of fiscal 2007 had approximately 1.19 lakh limited mobile subscribers in Mumbai and Delhi. CDMA is a digital wireless technology that increases network capacity by allowing more than one user to simultaneously occupy a single radio frequency band with reduced interference. We began providing Internet service in both Delhi and Mumbai in February 1999 and had approximately 1.29 million Internet access subscribers at the end of fiscal 2007. We obtained a national long distance license in May 2006 and began to carry our own traffic between Mumbai and Delhi. We believe that the size of the markets in Delhi and Mumbai, the economic environment, the Indian government’s ongoing liberalization of the telecommunications industry and the still low level of penetration of fixed-line, mobile and cellular services in these two areas and the low level of penetration of Internet services in India provide opportunities for future industry growth. The number of our access lines in service grew at a compound annual growth rate of 6.34% from March 31, 2000 to March 31, 2007. In fiscal 2007, these lines increased by 12.54%, due to cellular services. In the year 2007, our network included approximately 3.72 million access lines in service in Delhi and approximately 3.71 million access lines in service in Mumbai. In addition, our access lines in service per employee increased from 66 at March 31, 2000 to 137 at March 31, 2007. We derive our revenue primarily from local, domestic long distance and international calls that originate from our network. In fiscal 2007, approximately 33% of our revenue was derived from call charges, 49% from rentals of telephones, access lines and other telecommunications equipment and use of our value-added services and 13% from public call offices. Interconnect revenue, which is revenue derived from other telecommunications 15 Table of Contents service providers for calls made into our network, accounted for 5% of our revenues in fiscal 2007. Local calls are carried on our network, unless the termination point is in the network of one of the cellular operators or one of the new private-sector basic service providers in the locality. We have been carrying our own traffic between Delhi and Mumbai since May 2006. Other domestic long distance calls continue to be passed from our network to the domestic telecommunications network operated by BSNL, although we have entered into interconnect agreements with the new private-sector domestic long distance service providers and intend to pass such domestic long distance calls also through such other providers. In addition, currently all international outgoing calls continue to be passed from our network to international gateways operated by VSNL, India’s former government-controlled international long distance carrier, although we have entered into interconnect agreements with other private-sector international long distance carriers and have plans for joint development with BSNL of submarine cable to connect the east and west coasts of India with Malaysia and the Middle East (and ultimately Europe and the USA). We expect competition to continue to increase in all major sectors of the Indian telecommunications industry, as both government and private-sector companies continue to invest in capacity expansion and seize opportunities to enter new geographical areas and lines of business. See “— Business Overview—Competition” below. Our principal executive office is located at 12th floor, Jeevan Bharati Tower—1, 124 Connaught Circus, New Delhi—110001, India, and our telephone number is +91-11-2374-2212. Licenses/License Areas We provide all of our telecommunications services, other than Internet, under a single, general, non-exclusive license. The license initially granted to us in 1986 was effective for a five-year period that ended on March 31, 1991. The term of the license has been extended for a 25-year period ending March 31, 2013 for basic services. In October 1997, our license was amended to explicitly include cellular services and radio paging, and our license for such additional services currently extends to October 2017. The license is not specific as to the type of cellular technology that we may use. The license covers areas within the territorial jurisdiction of the State of Delhi and the areas covered by the municipalities of Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane. The DOT has extended the scope of our license to allow us to provide cellular services in certain surrounding areas of Delhi and Mumbai covered by other cellular operators in those cities. The license specifies that we may provide local, domestic long distance access (through interconnection with domestic long distance operators) and international long distance access (through interconnection with networks of international long distance operators), as well as telex and leased line services. Specifically, our license permits us to originate, terminate and transit domestic and international long distance calls. However, we believe that our license would need to be amended if we wanted to enter the market for domestic long distance utilizing our network. We expect to be licensed to provide for full international long distance service in the near future. The DOT retains the right to revoke our license after giving one month’s notice to us. The DOT also retains the right, after giving notice to us, to modify the terms and conditions of our license at any time if in their opinion it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunications sector. A revocation of the license or a change in significant terms of the license, such as its duration, the amount of license fee payable, the range of services permitted and the scope of exclusivity could limit our ability to operate particular lines of our business or result in increased costs in the form of increased license fees or costs associated with applying for new licenses, or contesting limitations on our licenses. We provide our Internet services in Delhi and Mumbai under separate non-exclusive license agreements. These licenses were granted in November 1998, and currently extend to September 7, 2017. In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Millennium Telecom Limited, provides Internet access services throughout India under a license granted in 2000 for an initial period of 15 years. Delhi. According to the government of India’s provisional 2001 population census data, Delhi had a total population of approximately 12.8 million. In addition to being India’s political capital, Delhi has the highest per capita income of all the states in India. Delhi has a high concentration of service and manufacturing industries and 16 Table of Contents houses the central government, the head offices for many major public sector enterprises, embassies, high commissions and various government missions and development agencies. Mumbai. The city of Mumbai, the financial capital of India and the capital of the State of Maharashtra, is India’s most populous city, with a population of approximately 16.4 million according to the 2001 census data. Mumbai accounted for 36% of India’s income tax contributions in fiscal 2000. Strategy Key elements of our strategy include the following: · Expand GSM Cellular and CDMA Mobile Services in Delhi and Mumbai. We launched our cellular services using GSM technology in Delhi and Mumbai in February 2001, and currently have an installed capacity of 10.25 lakh lines in Delhi and 13.25 lakh lines in Mumbai. We believe that current penetration rates in Mumbai and Delhi remain attractive for continued high growth in subscriber base. We have been awarded a tender for further adding two million lines of GSM based on 2G/3G in each of Mumbai and Delhi. In addition, we have launched lower-cost CDMA-based limited mobility mobile services in each of Mumbai and Delhi, and currently have 118,648 subscribers with an installed capacity of 1,098,230 CDMA connections (most of which are to employ the more advanced CDMA 2000 1X technology) in each city. We believe that this newlimited mobile service will enable us to target a wider customer base that is more price sensitive than GSM customers and that does not require India-wide and international roaming facilities. We intend to compete effectively in these growing markets by providing high quality service at affordable rates. · Focus on Customer Service. In order to strengthen the loyalty of our customers, attract cellular subscribers and improve our competitive position, we have a program to improve customer service and become more responsive to the needs of our subscribers. We have introduced improved bill collection and payment procedures (including bill payment over the Internet and via credit card), opened Tele-marts at which most subscriber services are available, introduced telephone directories on the Internet and on CD-ROM and implemented a customer service management system. Our customer service management system enables our staff to provide customers with access to a range of “on-line” services, including registration for new telephone lines, changes of address and issuances of bills, and allows us to monitor complaints from a single point of contact. We have identified high usage “commercially important persons” and are making all efforts to strengthen our relationship with these subscribers. · Further Develop and Modernize our Network. We intend to continue to invest in expanding and upgrading our network to improve the quality of service. We have placed an APO (Advance Purchase Order) to add 24K tandem capacity based on NGN – next generation network, in Delhi and Mumbai. Also, we are installing state of the art IP-MPLS Core in our network so as to give MPLS enabled data service with better quality of service to our esteemed customers. This MPLS core network will also aggregate all the next generation network switching, data broadband and video traffic so as to enable us to have an efficient utilization of our bandwidth. Further, we are replacing our old PDH transmission network with synchronous digital hierarchy technology. We are also planning to introduce DWDM technology to further increase the capacity of our optical fiber in network. We are continuing to implement fiber-in-local-loop and wireless-in-local-loop technologies where appropriate. We have introduced broadband technology based on ADSL2+, capable of providing triple play services (video, voice and data), in a significant way. Through expansion and modernization of our network, we seek to improve the capacity of our network, reduce network failure rates, improve call completion rates and decrease average waiting time for new lines as well as support our Internet and value-added services. · Selectively Target International Opportunities. We plan to selectively target expansion opportunities outside India where we can leverage our expertise and relationships. Our Nepal joint venture, United Telecom Limited, in which we hold a 26.7% equity interest, has commenced wireless in local loop 17 Table of Contents services as the first private-sector telecommunications operator in that country and has a subscriber base of 81,000 as of March 31, 2007. We have also been awarded licenses to provide basic, mobile and international long distance service in Mauritius. We launched international long distance services in Mauritius in the current fiscal year. We have also launched a fixed wireless service in Mauritius. As of March 31, 2007, we had approximately 21,800 fixed mobile customers and 23,000 international long distance card customers per month. On December 15, 2006, mobile services were launched under the brand name “MOKOZEE,” and as of March 31, 2007, we had a total of 5,885 prepaid mobile customers. We are also examining other international opportunities. · Enter the Market for International Long Distance Services. We intend to lay submarine cable jointly with BSNL from both the east and west coasts of India to the far East and the Middle East, respectively, to carry voice and data traffic, and with an intent to further extend to USA and Europe. · Expand Internet Services. We commenced our Internet service provider operations in February 1999 with an initial network capacity to support up to 5,000 subscribers in each of Delhi and Mumbai. As of March 31, 2007, we had approximately 1.29 million Internet access users. We have also started providing high speed internet services on broadband. · Enhance Value-added Services. We provide our subscribers with value-added services such as call-waiting, call-forwarding, wake-up calls, absent subscriber service and caller identification at no charge or for a nominal fee. We also provide our Intelligent Network services to subscribers, which include our calling card services, a toll-free calling service, a premium rate “0900” number service, universal access service and a televoting service. We also provide high speed data transmission services using integrated services digital network technology, which allows simultaneous high speed transmission of voice, data and images. We expect that our value-added service offerings will increase use of our network, enhance overall customer satisfaction and provide new sources of revenue. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Services Our primary business is providing basic telecommunications services in Delhi and Mumbai, which include: 1. Basic fixed-line access (including phone plus facilities) in Delhi and Mumbai: We provide basic fixed-line access, which consists of installation and provision of basic voice telephony services. Rental charges include maintenance of connections between a subscriber’s premises and our network, 60 pulses of calls per month as well as the use of a basic handset (although subscribers may elect to buy their own handset and have their installation charges reduced accordingly). Phone plus facilities in basic fixed-line include such services as abbreviated dialing, call transfer, hotline facility, three party conferencing, absentee facility, CLIP facility, call hunting, call alert and morning alarm. 2. Public Call Offices: Public call offices consist of both manned offices where people can make local, long distance and international calls, and coin operated telephone booths. At March 31 2007, public call offices accounted for 6.84 % of our total wire lines in service. The coin-operated public call offices offer only local call service, while the franchised public call offices offer local, domestic long distance and international call services. We pay a commission to the franchisees amounting to 40.0% of the tariffs charged by the franchisee on local calls and 20-30% of the tariffs charged by the franchisee on domestic long distance depending on the number of calls per fortnight and international calls. The franchisees charge the same tariffs we do for these services. 3. GSM cellular services (including value-added services) in Delhi and Mumbai: In February 2001, we launched our cellular mobile services using GSM technology (the European and Asian standard for digital cellular telephony) in Delhi and Mumbai under the brand name Dolphin. In 2002, we introduced our prepaid cellular services under the brand name Trump. As of March 31, 2007, we had 27.47 lakh GSM cellular subscribers. We provide national roaming facilities for our GSM cellular customers through the 18 Table of Contents networks of BSNL outside Mumbai and Delhi and international roaming facilities with 45 operators in approximately 40 countries, and we have established roaming facilities for our customers in a total of approximately 200 countries. As of March 31, 2007, we had installed a eellular network with a capacity of 10.25 lakh lines in Delhi and 13.25 lakh lines in Mumbai. This year we decided to have a tender for further adding 20 lakh lines of GSM based on 2G/3G each in of Mumbai and Delhi. 4. Value Added services: Value-added services on GSM such as call-waiting, call-forwarding, wake-up calls, absent subscriber service (informing callers that the subscriber is unavailable) and caller identification, friends & family, night talk, VMS call conference, WAP and voice mail. 5. Mobile and fixed-wireless services based on CDMA technology: In May 1997, we began implementing wireless-in-local-loop services using CDMA technology for fixed wireless and mobile operations on a commercially experimental basis with a single exchange and capacity for 1,000 subscribers in Delhi. Wireless-in-local-loop services use wireless links from a local exchange in place of conventional cables. Two types of service are provided. One type employs a handset that is fixed to a subscriber’s premises for “fixed wireless” service, while the other employs a mobile telephone -or “mobile” or “limited mobility” services. We have since upgraded our CDMA equipment and receiving stations and, in October 1999, we opened subscriptions for up to an additional 9,000 CDMA mobile and fixed wireless connections in Delhi and dedicated 40% of these connections for fixed wireless. The capacity was subsequently increased to approximately 150,000 lines in each of Delhi and Mumbai. At March 31, 2007, we had 118,648 operational CDMA mobile connections and 79,573 operational, fixed wireless connections. Our CDMA mobile service offers only limited mobility within Delhi and Mumbai, and currently we are not permitted to offer roaming facilities on this service. If we obtain the newly-available Unified Access License we will be able to offer full mobility. CDMA fixed wireless is a substitute for fixed-line access. Fixed wireless allows us to enhance basic service penetration, provide quicker installation and cover areas where the installation of cable would not be economical. Our CDMA mobile service is marketed under the brand name Garuda. 6. ISDN services: We provide narrow-band ISDN services that allow subscribers to send high speed data make telephone calls with high quality voice transmission and hold desktop video conference over a single line. In the past, the development of independent networks for a variety of services (such as voice, telex, packet-switched data and leased lines) made each of them relatively expensive. ISDN technology allows a wide range of data services to be made available to the subscriber through a single connection and at a reduced cost. We believe these high speed data transmission products will help us to attract high usage subscribers. We introduced narrow-band ISDN services in August 1996, and, at March 31, 2007, we had approximately 24,500 subscribers to this service. 7. Broadband services: We also offer data communications services through our packet switched data network. This service allows the transmission of data on standard international data protocols and access via dedicated lines or dial-up facilities. We plan to expand broadband services on a large scale based on the ADSL technology. ADSL means asymmetric digital subscriber loop, a technology that allows combinations of services including voice, data technology and one-way full motion video to be compressed and delivered over existing copper cables. We expect to experience significant demand for these high speed data services from large corporate, financial, media, public service and education institutions. We launched broadband services using ADSL 2+ in January 2005. The broadband customer base as on March 31, 2007 is 4.69 lakh. The installed capacity of broadband ports as on March 31, 2007 is 4.58 lakh. We have plans to install additional 8 lakh broadband ports in fiscal 2007-08. 8. Internet access services: We commenced our Internet service provider operations in February 1999 with initial equipment capacity to support up to 5,000 subscribers in each of Delhi and Mumbai. We experienced significant demand for this service and have since expanded our Internet services capacity to support additional subscribers in each of Delhi and Mumbai. As of March 31, 2007, we provided our Internet services to a total of approximately 1.29 million subscribers in Delhi and Mumbai. 19 Table of Contents We also enable our customers to access the Internet without having to subscribe for Internet service. They can access the service and later be billed on the basis of calling line identification usage. The number of customers who use this service is much higher than the number of Internet subscribers we have. 9. Leased line service: We provide point-to-point leased line services for local, domestic long distance and international connectivity. Subscribers can use our leased lines to assemble their own private networks between offices within Delhi and Mumbai or together with BSNL, between Delhi and Mumbai and to other Indian cities. Leased line services can be used for voice and data transmission at various bandwidths. In addition, we earn revenues from leasing circuits to cellular operators in Delhi and Mumbai to interconnect their networks to our network. At March 31, 2007, we had approximately 48,000 leased line subscribers. 10. Telex and Intelligent Network services: We are introducing Intelligent Network services over our entire network which at present includes: · Calling card service · Toll free calling service · Premium rate “0900”number service · Televoting service. 11. Interconnection with domestic international long distance carriers and with basic and cellular operators in Delhi and Mumbai: We provide local telephone services in Delhi and Mumbai as well as domestic and international long distance through our connectivity with BSNL’s domestic long distance network and. VSNL’s international gateways. Since May 2006, we have carried our own traffic between Delhi and Mumbai. We derive revenues from tariffs we collect on local domestic long distance and international calls that originate on our network. Tariffs, or usage charges, consist of charges for local, domestic long distance and international calls. Usage is measured by pulses, which are time-based limits of measure, metered at the relevant exchanges. A set of pulse durations is established for each category of calls (i.e., local, domestic long distance or international long distance), and within each category, pulse durations vary depending on one or more of the following factors: call distance; time of day; type of network on which the call is terminating (i.e. fixed, GSM cellular or CDMA mobile); destination country (for international long distance only); subscriber plan (for local calls only); and whether the call is within a circle or between two different circles (for domestic long distance only). We estimate that, based on recent sample data, local calls constitute approximately 78% of our total pulses, while domestic long distance and international calls constitute approximately 17% and 5% of our pulses, respectively. We are focused on increasing call volumes by promoting use of our value-added services and the use of long distance services. We have received a letter of intent for a license to enter the international long distance service market and intend to launch this service as soon as the license is finalized. We intend to lay submarine cable jointly with BSNL from both the east and west coasts of India to the far East and the Middle East, respectively, to carry voice and data traffic. 12. Interconnection. We connect our network with BSNL and have entered into interconnect agreements with certain other licensed domestic long distance service carriers to provide our customers with domestic long distance service and intend to pass traffic to these other providers also (we carry our own traffic beween Delhi and Mumbai since May 2006). We connect our network with VSNL and have entered into interconnect agreements with certain other licensed international long distance carriers to provide our customers with international long distance service. We connect our network with the other basic, cellular operators and Unified Access Service Providers in Mumbai and Delhi to offer our customers comprehensive access in our coverage areas. The terms and conditions of our interconnect arrangements are governed by regulations of the TRAI and interconnect agreements that we have with many of these other operators. The TRAI is also responsible for ensuring technical compatibility among operators. Effective May 1, 2003, under the authoirty’s interconnection usage charges regulation, interconnect charges have been established for all major types of interconnection based on a “calling party pays” principle. See 20 Table of Contents “—License Fees and Network Utilization/Interconnection Arrangements” and “—Telecommunications Regulation in India.” Recently Introduced Services · We have launched broadband service with ADSL2+ state-of-art technology, capable of providing triple play services (voice, video and data). · We have launched a “Certification Authority” business under the brand name “MTNL Trustline” with a capacity to issue 500,000 Certificates. With this, we have become an important public key infrastructure service provider. · We have launched Wi-fi service to provide internet connectivity to inaccessible and hot spots in the Delhi area. · Since May 2006, we are carrying our own national long distance traffic between Delhi and Mumbai. · We, in association with STPI, are setting up data centre for Web-Farming application. · We have launched IPTV services in both Delhi and Mumbai on revenue sharing basis. · We have also commissioned a state-of-the-art IP/MPLS core network in Delhi. Services Under Development · We would be adding two million lines in net switching capacity including capacity for WLL and GSM and 60,000 KMs. of optical fiber in Delhi and Mumbai. Our other plans include - setting up 300-seater unified call center and deployment of Next Generation Network of 24,000 lines in Delhi and Mumbai each. · A state of the art convergent billing and CRM system is under installation. This will facilitate CDR based billing, single bill for all services to the subscribers, flexibility in billing and innovative tariff packages for subscribers and thus will help in reducing billing complaints. · We are further adding optical fibre in our access network and are introducing FTTH based on PON so as to provide all of our important customers with fiber connectivity to their homes in order to meet their further increased bandwidth requirement of both data and video applications. · We have also floated an EOI for introduction of Wi-Max. Pilot projects have been started in both Delhi and Mumbai for providing Wi Max services. Telecommunications Services in Other Countries We are selectively targeting expansion opportunities outside India where we can leverage our expertise and relationships. We are keen in expanding our overseas operations, currently we are in the process of exploring the potential in a few Asian and African countries. United Telecom Limited, a joint venture involving us (26.68%), Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (26.66%), VSNL (26.66%) and Nepal Ventures Private Limited (20%), commenced wireless in local loop services as the first private-sector telecommunications operator in Nepal. We have also been awarded licenses to provide basic and international long distance service as well as mobile services in Mauritius. Through a Mauritius subsidiary, we have begun to offer ILD services and fixed wireless services. We intend to begin the build out of our network there to provide additional services. 21 Table of Contents Tariffs and Other Customer Charges Fixed-Line Services. Tariffs, or usage charges, consist of charges for local, domestic long distance and international calls. Usage is measured by pulses, which are time-based units of measure, metered at the relevant exchanges. Pulses vary, depending on one or more factors. Local call pulse duration depends upon the type of network on which the call is terminating (i.e., fixed, GSM cellular or CDMA mobile) and the subscriber plan chosen, while domestic long distance call pulse duration depends upon the call distance, time of day, type of network on which the call is terminating and whether the call is within a regional circle or between two circles. International call pulse duration varies depending upon the country of destination. For operator assisted domestic and international calls, a slab system of tariffs applies which differs depending upon the speed at which the call is completed. The subscriber is billed at a fixed price per pulse that depends upon the subscriber plan chosen and usage volume (low usage customers are offered a lower price per pulse). We currently offer several fixed-line plans, tailored to meet the needs of different user profiles. One of the plans is the standard plan, which, under TRAI regulations, we are required to offer all customers and the terms of which the authority establishes. For fixed-line services, customers also pay access charges consisting of a one-time refundable security deposit, installation charges and monthly subscription/rental charges. We have adopted a policy not to reduce our basic tariffs and related charges unless in a response to tariff reductions by competitors. However, since the 1999 tariff order, the TRAI has in several stages significantly reduced tariffs on domestic and international long distance calls. Effective July 20, 2002, international long distance call rates were reduced by about 40% and effective October 2, 2004 national long distance call rates were reduced varying up to 60% for various designations Because we retain the remainder of prices of domestic and international long distance calls originating on our network, net of interconnect charges, by lowering long distance rates the tariff reductions have reduced the revenue we receive per call. While these rate reductions have been part of a “rebalancing” effort aimed at reducing cross-subsidization between long distance (historically priced at a premium) and local calls (historically subsidized) by at the same time phasing out subsidization of local calls, the negative impact of the long distance rate reductions have to date outweighed any positive impact of other aspects of the tariff rebalancing effort. Also effective May 1, 2003, as part of its effort to reduce subsidies, the TRAI changed the standard plan that we must offer all customers by increasing monthly rentals for basic services by 12% from Rs. 250 to Rs.280, reduced the local call pulse duration (for calls made to fixed and fixed wireless lines) from three minutes to two minutes and the number of free monthly call pulses. GSM Cellular Services. We offer our GSM cellular subscribers in Delhi and Mumbai a choice of several plans, tailored to meet the needs of different user profiles. One of the plans is the standard plan, which, under TRAI regulations, we are required to offer all customers and the terms of which the authority establishes. Generally, in addition to call charges for local and long distance calls, our plans include the following types of charges: refundable, non-interest bearing security deposit; installation charges; monthly rental charges; and airtime charges. Effective February 1, 2004, with the adoption by the TRAI of the interconnection usage charge regulation and the “calling party pays” principle, charges for incoming cellular calls (other than any roaming charges) have been eliminated. In addition, we provide the following value-added services free to all our GSM cellular subscribers: · roaming between Delhi and Mumbai · call forwarding/divert · call hold · call waiting · caller identification However, airtime charges on use apply to these services. In addition, we offer our GSM cellular subscribers the following value-added services for a fee. 22 Table of Contents · national roaming; · WAP (for Rs. 0.80 per minute through circuits switch Data); · voice mail (for Rs. 0.50 per minute on message retrieval); · Short Message Service; · charges for outgoing messages – Rs.0.50. · charges for incoming messages – free · charges to other Services/National – Rs.1.00 per message · charges to other Services/International – Rs.2.50 per message · SMS Package (for Rs. 30/- per month and outgoing SMS local mobile no. Rs. 0.10 per message between 10 PM to 10AM) · content-based Short Message Service (Rs.1.00 per message for regular service); and · call conference (for Rs.50 per month; free for corporate booking); GPRS and MMS Service FOR POSTPAID FOR PREPAID 1. FOR GPRS Particulars GPRS-1 (wef 01.02.06) GPRS-2 GPRS-3 GPRS-4 (wef 20.03.06) GPRS-5 Activation Charges (one-time) NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL (Rs. 2/ - per SMS) Monthly Rental Rs. 90/ -* per month (WAP browsing through Mobile) Rs. 399/ - per month (unlimited WAP browsing through PC) Rs. 49/ - per month (unlimited WAP browsing through mobile) NIL NIL Free usage up to 15 MB Unlimited (GPRS) NIL NIL NIL Volume based usage charges beyond free usage (Rs. / Kilo Bytes) Rs. 0.01 per KB (10 paisa per KB) NIL Rs. 0.10 per 10 KB Rs. 0.02/KB Rs. 0.02/KB 2. FOR MMS 1.P2P (Calling party or sender to pay) 50 MMS free. Beyond 50 MMS, Rs.3/ - per MMS 200 MMS free. Beyond 200 MMS, Rs. 3/ - per MMS NIL Rs.3/ - per MMS Rs. 3/ - per MMS 23 Table of Contents 2. M2P (Downloader to pay) Down load charges as per rate fixed by the content provider Various optional plans are also available to cater to the specific needs of the customers. Itemized bill for Rs.50 per month (free for corporate booking) In fiscal 2002, we introduced pre-paid GSM cellular services under the brand name “Trump” in Delhi and Mumbai. This market is also highly competitive, with rates changing with market conditions. In January 2006, we launched “One India Tariff” @Rs. 1.00 per minute for all India on all networks. However, calls from fixed line/CDMA to fixed line/CDMA within own network are @Rs. 1.00 for three minutes. We launched a new program One India Roaming Freedom Plan under Postpaid Cellular Services, under GSM license service effective June 3, 2007 in our service areas in Delhi and Mumbai. Broadband Service: We started offering Broadband service in January 2005 to subscribers in Delhi and Mumbai with choice of several plans, tailored to meet the needs of different user profiles. Generally, in addition to usage charges for usage and data download, our plans include the following types of charges: non-interest bearing security deposit; installation & testing charges; monthly DSL usage charges, monthly rental for modem, if provided by us. In May 2005, we implemented leased line tariff at par with BSNL under revised tariff ceilings prescribed by the TRAI. CDMA Services. For CDMA mobile services, including the use of a CDMA handset, our subscribers are charged a refundable security deposit, a monthly charge and a monthly handset rental, in addition to airtime charges. We have not charged users for incoming calls. We offer our CDMA mobile subscribers a choice of several plans, tailored to meet the needs of different user profiles. Following commissioning in July 2006 of CDMA 20001X system in Mumbai, which has mobility between Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, other value added services are provided such as: · SMS: Local Rs.0.40 per message, national Rs. 0.80 per message and international Rs. 2.50 per message. · VMS: Rs. 1.20 per 3 minute · Internet Access: Rs. 0.30 per 100 KB In addition, we provide the following value added services free to all our CDMA subscribers: · Call Hunting · Call Waiting · Caller Identification · STD./ISD Dynamic Lock 24 Table of Contents · Call Forwarding · Three-party Conference · Abbreviated Dialing Other Services For access to narrow-band ISDN services, we charge our subscribers a monthly rental and no registration fee. Subscribers can also have primary rate access for an initial fee. Usage charges for local, domestic long distance and international calls are the same as for the basic fixed-line telephone. Tariffs charged by public telephone operators for telephone usage are at a fixed rate of Rs.1.00 per pulse, of 60 seconds for local calls and long distance pulse durations varying depending upon the distance. We do not charge any registration fees for our Internet access services. Our Internet access fees have been falling considerably in response to competitive pressures. Internet users do not have to subscribe for Internet services. They can access the service and later be billed on the basis of calling line identification usage. Subscribers for point-to-point leased line services are charged an annual fee based on the type of service offered, the distance between the points and the duration of the lease entered into by the subscriber. License Fees and Network Utilization/Interconnection Arrangements License Fees and Network Utilization Charges. Under our previous arrangement with the DOT, the license fees for providing basic services was fixed at Rs.900 per access line in service. This arrangement expired on March 31, 2000. In the absence of any new arrangement with the DOT, we continued to pay license fees during fiscal 2001 on the same terms as our previous arrangement. On April 9, 2001, the DOT communicated that the annual license fees will be revised and shall be payable at 12% of adjusted gross revenue from basic telephone service effective from August 1, 1999, as applicable to private operators from that date. On September 5, 2001, the DOT amended its position and indicated that the date from which the revised license fees will be payable will be notified later. However, in the absence of an agreement for payment of license fees and any clarification from DOT to date, we have paid license fees on the revised basis communicated by DOT for fiscal 2002 and 2003. Further subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2004, in a meeting held between DOT, BSNL and the Company to resolve the ambiguity with respect to license fees and networking charges it was agreed that the license fees were payable at 12% of AGR and networking charges as per TRAI regulations with effect from August 1, 1999. Also, the revenue sharing percentages earlier agreed to between us and BSNL, other than those governed by TRAI regulations, were revised with retrospective effect. This resulted in an incremental charge of Rs. 3,520 million in the consolidated statements of income on account of license fee and a benefit of Rs 1,515 million on account of networking charges during the year ended March 31, 2004, in respect of periods up to March 31, 2003. Further license fee has been revised at 10% of Adjusted Gross Revenue with effect from April 1, 2004. The license fee for the NLD (national long distance) service license which the company has obtained is 6% of AGR. A license fee on internet services of 6% of AGR has been in effect since January 1, 2006. Cellular License Fees and Spectrum Allocation Charges. Each Indian cellular service provider operating in top-tier circles, including us, currently pays a cellular license fee of 10% of adjusted gross revenues received from its cellular services plus spectrum charges of 2% of adjusted gross revenues for up to 4.4 MHz of spectrum allocation and 3% of adjusted gross revenues for spectrum allocation of up to 6.2 MHz and 4% of Adjusted Gross Revenue for spectrum allocation of up to 8 MHz. License fee has been revised from April 1, 2004 at 10% of adjusted gross revenue. Unified Access License. In November 2003, the DOT issued guidelines for Unified Access Licenses which cover within a service area both basic telecommunications services and cellular services. In the Indian context, “basic telecommunications services” or “basic services” include basic fixed-lined access service and a number of other telecommunications services, other than long distance services, cellular service and Internet access. Basic 25 Table of Contents services also include CDMA-based fixed wireless and mobile services (without roaming). We have submitted a request to the DOT to migrate to UAS Licenses for our service area under mobile licenses for Delhi and Mumbai to be able to provide services at par with other operators in these areas. In September 2006, our request for migration of our CMTS Licenses to UAS Licenses as our operating cellular service in the licensed area was not accepted by the DOT. In October 2006, we sought reconsideration and grant of permission for migration to UAS Licenses. New Interconnection Usage Charges Regulation. Effective May 1, 2003, under the TRAI’s new interconnection usage charges regulation, and further amended and implemented since February 1, 2004, interconnect charges have been established for all major types of interconnection. Under this regulation, we are entitled to specified interconnection revenues with respect to incoming calls from operators that are linked to our network, and are required to make specified payments in respect of outgoing calls from our network into another operator’s network. For this reason, this regulation is said to be based on the “calling party pays” principle. As a result of this regulation, we are accruing interconnect fees payable by BSNL in respect of the domestic long distance calls that come into our network from that company’s network. In addition, as a result of related tariff changes, we no longer charge cellular or CDMA-based mobile users for incoming calls, as we are now entitled to interconnect payments from the caller’s service provider. The terms of all interconnect agreements are subject to the interconnect charges specified in the regulation. The TRAI has issued IUC Regulation (1 of 2005) dated January 6, 2005 and implemented from February 1, 2005. In this IUC amendment, the authority emphasized lower tariffs and linked high sustained subscriber growth. Plans for consistent decline in tariffs to give sustained boost to subscriber growth and teledensity. The methodology of imposing ADC per minute charge has kept unchanged. Only the Access Deficit Charge has been changed, ADC on long distance calls and international calls has been reduced. Further, in the amended IUC regulation, BSNL only, and not the other fixed lines operators, will receive ADC on all incoming international calls and outgoing calls from Mobile/WLL (M). The TRAI has issued IUC Regulation (1 of 2006) dated February 28, 2006 and implemented from March 1, 2006. In this IUC amendment, the methodology of imposing ADC per minute charge changed with AGR (adjusted gross revenue) basis @ 1.5%. ADC on international calls has been reduced on the basis of per minute charge in addition to 1.5% of AGR. The TRAI has issued ADC Regulation (2 of 2007) dated March 21, 2007 and implemented from April 1, 2007. In this amended regulation ADC on percentage revenue share was reduced to 0.75% from existing 1.50% of AGR. ADC on Outgoing international calls was reduced to zero from existing level of Rs. 0.80 per minute and on Incoming International Calls reduced to Rs. 1.00 per minute from existing Rs. 1.60 per minute. Network Utilization—Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL). Under our previous arrangement with BSNL, we paid network utilization charges to that company as a fixed percentage of the amount of usage and other charges billed to our customers for our services. Our network utilization arrangement with BSNL expired on March 31, 2001. For fiscal 2002 the interconnection charges on domestic long distance and international long distance calls were accrued on the basis of the rates payable by other basic service operators in the country, and for fiscal 2003 the interconnection charges on domestic long distance calls were again accrued on the basis of the rates payable by the other basic service operators in the country. Since beginning of fiscal 2003, we have been accruing international long distance calls on the basis of interconnect agreements that we signed with VSNL and others. Since the beginning of fiscal 2004, the Telecommunication Interconnect Usage Charges (IUC) Regulation (2 of 2003) 2003 covers arrangements among Service Providers for Payment of Interconnection Usage Charges for Telecommunication Services, Covering Basic Service which includes WLL(M) Services, Cellular Mobile Service Providers and Long Distance Operators throughout the territory of India. The IUC Regulation (1 of 2005) effective from 1st February 2005 has only reduced the ADC on Domestic Long Distance calls and International calls keeping all other components of IUC unchanged. Further the ADC on incoming terminating calls on fixed network from mobiles and international long distance has also been made payable to BSNL only. We are in the process of negotiating network utilization and domestic long distance agreements with BSNL. We are responsible for collecting payments for calls from our subscribers and bear the risk of non-collection of these charges. Until the May 1, 2003 effectiveness of the interconnection usage charges regulation, we did not receive any payments for calls coming into our network from BSNL’s network. We have also signed interconnect agreements with several private-sector domestic long distance service providers, but to date still rely on BSNL for substantially all of our domestic long distance interconnection. BSNL has also established its Trunk Automatic Exchanges (TAXs) at Delhi and Mumbai. All the other private operators of Delhi and Mumbai have established 26 Table of Contents interconnection with these TAXs and consequently MTNL has stopped transiting their long distance calls to minimize the risk of bad debts. International Long Distance Interconnect Arrangements. Although we have signed interconnect agreements with several international long distance carriers, we continue to rely on VSNL for substantially all of our outgoing international long distance traffic. Interconnect Arrangements with Other Cellular, Basic Service Providers and Unified Access Service Providers in Mumbai and Delhi. We have entered into interconnect agreements with the other cellular, Unified Access and basic service providers in Mumbai and Delhi to formalize our network integration with them. In addition to usage-based interconnect charges, each cellular/unified/basic service operator in Delhi and Mumbai pays us an annual fee for lines leased from us to connect to our network. For the establishment of interconnection between operators, a model Reference Interconnect Offer (RIO) was circulated by the TRAI asking BSNL and us to frame our own interconnect offer which was proposed to be signed with other operators for establishing new interconnections. Several changes were desired by the TRAI in the Interconnect Offer document of BSNL and us, and BSNL and we challenged the proposed changes in TDSAT. As per directions of TDSAT, several rounds of talks were held by the TRAI with BSNL and most of the issues were resolved. TDSAT has now given judgment and accordingly we have posted our interconnect offer on the website incorporating the changes already agreed with the TRAI during discussions. Customers and Customer Service. We classify our subscribers by use level and estimate that in the last three months of fiscal 2007, approximately 14.73% of our access lines in service accounted for 57.80% of our call units. The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our subscribers for the final three months of fiscal 2007: Average number of subscribers per segment as a percentage of total subscribers Average call units per segment as a percentage of all metered calls Subscriber segments(use of pulses on a bi-monthly basis) 0-100 28.83 1.07 101-500 38.50 18.68 501-1,000 17.94 22.45 1,001-2,000 9.92 24.18 2,001-5,000 4.07 20.65 Greater than 5,000 0.74 12.97 Our general marketing strategy is to stimulate demand for telephone services in order to increase average usage and revenue per line in service. We have identified high usage subscribers as “commercially important persons” and are taking initiatives to strengthen our relationship with these individuals. These initiatives include regular visits and conducting surveys to obtain feedback and determine client-specific needs and introduce value-added services tailored to commercially important persons. Also, in certain areas we have constructed a digital local loop network with better quality transmission dedicated for use by commercially important persons. Some of the commercially important persons are also being connected to our network via fiber-in-local-loop technology. We also use print advertising to educate the general public about our telephone services and other value-added services. No single subscriber accounted for more than 5% of our revenues in fiscal, 2005, 2006 or 2007. Government of India entities in the aggregate constitute the largest user of our services. We deal, however, with the various departments and agencies of the government of India as separate subscribers and the provision of services to any one department or agency does not constitute a material part of our revenue. Our subscribers are billed by mail or courier once every billing period. Subscribers with access to long distance service are billed monthly; subscribers with access to local services only are billed bi-monthly. We have introduced four billing cycles in respect of each billing period which enables us to bill different subscribers at 27 Table of Contents different times in the billing period. Cycle billing reduces the burden on the billing system at any particular time of the month and provides more consistent cash flow. Billing is computerized and processing takes place at decentralized bill processing facilities in Delhi and Mumbai for ease of operation and better handling of customer complaints. A subscriber can inquire by an automated telephone service or at one of our customer service centers to determine the amount of his bill. Payment may be made by mail or at a collection center such as a national bank or a customer service center. Payments may also be made under our voluntary deposit scheme, where customers set up an interest bearing deposit with us, or under our electronic clearance system, where payment is directly debited from the subscriber’s bank account. We have also introduced a program through which subscribers can pay bills through the Internet or at any of our Tele-mart centers. We allow subscribers to pay bills using a credit card and at the post office, and plan to allow subscribers to pay bills at local merchants and through other mechanisms to improve bill collection and remittance. We have developed our billing system jointly with Tata Consultancy Services in Delhi and Mumbai. This billing system is a part of a customized software program known as a “customer service management system.” The billing system is an integrated revenue billing system, which includes pre-connection and post-connection services, accounting, billing collection and access to subscriber records. Other benefits of this system are one point data capture for all subscribers, increased efficiency and reduction of lead time to process queries. This system enables our staff to handle, at a single point of contact, various activities “on-line such as registration of a new telephone connection, change of address and category, issuance of work orders, issuance of duplicate bills, requests for transfer of telephone for domestic long distance and international connectivity, collection of payments of bills, status of outstanding bills, and monitoring of subscriber complaints. Payment is due within 21 days from the date of issue of the bill. If the charges are not paid on time, we generally give a reminder by telephone after the due date, cut off all services after 35 days from the date of issue of the bill. Subscribers with large amounts overdue may have their telecommunications services terminated earlier. Subscribers are charged a surcharge on amounts overdue after 21 days (with maximum surcharge being Rs.4,000) and a reinstatement fee of Rs.100. This reinstatement fee has been suspended in our Delhi unit for the one year ending September 1, 2007. We provide operator assisted services, including value-added products such as wake-up calls, as well as operator connected and reverse charge calls to all of our subscribers. In addition, we provide free operator assisted directory services. Our strategy is to continue to enhance the level of subscriber satisfaction by increasing access to operators and improving the quality of subscriber interface, while also improving operational efficiency and productivity. In March 1999, we published a Delhi directory, and we published a Mumbai directory in February 2000. Both of these directories are available free of charge on our website. We have recently introduced directory information on CD-ROMs, which are available for Rs.50 each, as well as an on-line directory inquiry service which is available to telephone users with personal computers and communication software. In order to address subscriber disputes more quickly, we regularly hold telephone “adalats,” or courts. These adalats are presided over by our senior management and, although their judgments are non-binding, we have resolved a large number of disputes at these adalats. We also hold “open house” sessions to obtain feedback from subscribers, enabling us to take steps to improve customer service. Our service centers also provide various types of services such as registration for new connections, shifting telephone connections, billing information and collection of bill payments. We have customer service centers in many locations in both Delhi and in Mumbai. Generally, three to five employees provide these services in each center. Insurance We maintain comprehensive insurance for our assets under a single comprehensive policy renewable annually. The policy is renewed in July of each year. We do not anticipate having any difficulty in renewing our insurance policies and believe our insurance coverage is reasonable and consistent with industry standards in India. 28 Table of Contents Competition One of the primary objectives of the 1999 telecom policy is to encourage competition within India’s telecommunications industry. Accordingly, we will encounter increased competition in each of our markets as existing and additional service providers actively seek to penetrate these markets through the introduction of high quality products and services. The 1999 telecom policy allows the DOT to license, at its discretion, multiple additional basic and cellular service providers in any service area. Under a Unified Access Service License, such competitors as Reliance Infocom, Bharti Airtel, Tata Teleservices Limited and Idea Cellular Ltd., are currently competing with us in the market for basic services in both Mumbai and Delhi. All of these companies already have significant telecommunications infrastructure in Delhi and Mumbai, including, with respect to Tata Teleservices and Reliance Infocom, low-cost CDMA mobile and fixed wireless technology. With approximately 67.33% of our call units having been derived from approximately 18.75% of our access lines in service (last three months of fiscal 2007), we are particularly vulnerable to losing market share if these or other new operators aggressively target our largest subscribers. We experience significant competition in the market for GSM cellular services. As of March 2007, we had approximately 16.26% and 20.78% of the mobile subscribers in Delhi and in Mumbai, respectively. Our largest competitors in Delhi are Bharti AirTel, Idea Cellular and Hutchinson Essar (Hutch). In Mumbai, Bharti (AirTel) and Vodafone have the largest share in the market. Cellular operators also face significant competition from rapidly growing CDMA-based mobile services, which are priced considerably lower than GSM cellular services. We commenced providing our Internet services in Delhi and Mumbai in February 1999. The competition among Internet service providers throughout India is intense with approximately 507 licenses for providing Internet services issued as of March 20, 2007. There has been significant consolidation in the telecommunications industry in India. For example, the Birla Group, the Tata Group and AT&T have combined their interests in GSM cellular operators into one business, and the Tata Group, which controls Tata Teleservices, acquired a controlling interest in India’s dominant international long distance carrier, VSNL, and Tata Teleservices has acquired Hughes Tele.com, a basic service provider in Mumbai. We expect the trend toward consolidation to continue, resulting in larger, more diversified competitors in the Indian market. Vodafone Essar Mobile Services Limited has acquired Hutchinson Essar Mobile Services Limited, another one of the telecom operators in India. Our revenues from international calls are adversely affected by competition from “call-back” services. Call-back services were officially declared illegal by the Ministry of Communications in July 1995. Nevertheless, the volume of international calls made from India through call-back services has continued to grow. We have also applied for a license to enter the international long distance business and the licensor has acted by issuing us a letter of intent to license us for that service. Increased competition has kept and will likely continue to keep downward pressure on prices and has required and will likely continue to require us to increase our capital investment to improve and expand our services. These developments, in turn, have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our profitability. In the tariff order, no minimum tariff levels are specified and service providers have the flexibility to determine the tariff below the maximum levels. Our board of directors has determined not to reduce fixed line tariffs unless such a reduction is in response to a tariff reduction by a competitor. However, the TRAI may prescribe minimum tariffs or prohibit providers from reducing tariffs in response to competition. Additionally, the tariff order prescribes tariffs based on the estimated cost to provide particular services. These estimates and corresponding tariffs may not accurately reflect our actual costs. In order to compete with other basic and cellular operators and Internet service providers, we are increasingly focused on the timely introduction of new and improved products and services and pay increased 29 Table of Contents attention to customer service. An inability to compete effectively would also damage our longer-term business prospects through loss of customers and market share. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Except as described below and except with respect to regulatory proceedings described elsewhere, we are not currently a party to any material legal or arbitration proceedings or disputes. Deductibility of License Fees The Central Income Tax Authority of India (“CITA”) had historically disallowed the license fee paid by us to DOT for the years ended March 31, 1994 through March 31, 2005 as a tax deductible expense and had raised a demand for payment of taxes on increased taxable income relating to such expenses. We had contested these demands. As part of the appeals process, we had paid deposits under protest, amounting to Rs. 13,427 million as of March 31, 2005. These deposits have been classified as part of restricted assets on our consolidated balance sheets During the year ended March 31, 2005, we had obtained favorable decisions from the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (“ITAT”) with respect to the license fee disallowed for the assessment years 1997-98 and 2001-2002. Further in respect of assessment years 1995-96 and 1996-97, the Committee of Disputes (“COD”), on the recommendations of the Ministry of Law, decided not to give clearance to either the Central Board of Direct Taxes or us to file appeals in the Hon’able High Court, making the decision of the ITAT binding on both the parties. Subsequent to the COD’s decision, we applied to ITAT to restore the appeal and decide in our favor. During the current year ended March 31, 2006, based on the judgments passed in the previous years, the ITAT has allowed deduction of license fees as a tax deductible item for assessment years 1998-99 to 2000-01 and 2002-03. License fees have also been allowed as a deduction by the CITA for assessment year 2004-05. During the year ended March 31, 2007, based on the judgments passed in the previous years, the ITAT has allowed deduction of license fees as tax deductible item for the assessment years 1995-96 and 1996-97 also. Management believes that the ITAT following its favorable judgments of earlier years will eventually decide in favor of the Company for the years in dispute and an adverse outcome in respect of the above is not probable. Based on the abvove stated favorable orders, we have not accrued the tax charge on the license fee in our financial statements. We have received interest on deposits paid under protest to the tax authorities and the refunds for the years decided in our favor, i.e. 1995-96, 1996-97, 1998-99, 1999-00, 2000-01, 2002-03, and 2004-05 in the year 2007-08. The refunds and the interest thereon have been recognized in our statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2007. Deduction of Claim of Benefit U/S 801A for New Undertakings. As per section 80IA of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961 a Company, which starts to operate telecommunication services at any time on or after April 1, 1995, but before March 31, 2000, is entitled to a tax holiday for a period of 10 years beginning with the year in which such services are started. As per the tax holiday, 100% of the profits derived from such services are exempt from tax in the first 5 years, and 30% of such profits are exempt from tax for the next 5 years. MTNL on the basis of advice from its legal counsel has historically claimed such benefit. The Company’s claim have been rejected at the first appellate level and the case has been referred to the Committee of Disputes, which is a body formed by the Government to settle disputes between Government controlled undertakings and the Government. The Committee has referred the case to the Tax appellate authorities for reconsideration. During the year ended March 31, 2006, the case has been set aside by the Income Tax Appellate Authority for the assessment years 1998-99, 1999-00, 2000-01 and 2002-03 and has referred the matter back to the Assessing Officer for a fresh assessment after hearing the case again. For the years ending upto and including March 31,2006 ,considering that the benefit claimed by MTNL in the above years may not be ultimately allowed by tax authorities, the provision for current taxes in these years had been accounted in the basis of normal tax rates. During the year 2006-07 assessing officer has made fresh assessment for calculation of deduction u/s 80IA of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961 and allowed partial benefit to MTNL. MTNL has filed appeals against that partial allowance to the higher authority. 30 Table of Contents Sales Tax We received a demand to pay sales tax in respect of certain historical telecommunications revenues, mainly telephone rental charges. We received a demand from the state government of Maharashtra, of which Mumbai is a part, for payment of Rs. 3,200 million in sales tax for fiscal 1989-2000. Further, we also received notice from the Delhi state government seeking further information in aid of an investigation into whether a similar demand should be made upon us. The amount of issue in Delhi is significantly less. The department made these demands based on a case involving the Uttar Pradesh Trade Tax Department (UPTTD) and the DOT, wherein the Supreme Court of India ruled that a telephone connection along with a telephone set provided by a company rendering basic services amounts to a "transfer of right to use the telephone system" and the rentals collected by DOT towards this right to use should suffer sales tax. Subsequent to the passing of this order, both the cellular and basic operators filed a petition before the Supreme Court under Article 32 of the Constitution in respect of the above. The Honorble Supreme Court admitted the Petitions, inspite of its own judgment, and vide orders dated September 25, 2003 referred the matter to a larger bench for determination of dispute on merits and further directed that in future there shall be no coercion for recovery of any dues. The Hon?ble Supreme Court further directed that the operators should file statutory appeals against the assessment orders for assessments already completed as on September 25, 2003. Following the Supreme Court order in the UPTTD case, the sales tax departments across the country have raised demands on basic and cellular mobile operators. We have challenged the demands raised before the respective high courts and we have been granted interim stays against enforcement of the demands. However this stay order is subject to the outcome of the Supreme Court judgment on the issue. During the year ended March 31, 2006, the Supreme Court of India has concluded in the BSNL Vs Union of India case that rendering basic services does not amount to a "transfer of right to use the telephone system". Hence the imposition of the sales tax on any facility of the telecommunication services is untenable in law. Based on opinion received from legal counsel and drawing reference to the judgment of the Supreme Court of India in the abovementioned case, management believed that the sales tax departments would have to withdraw their demands of sales tax on basic telephony and that an adverse outcome in respect of the above is remote. During the current year the case relating to Delhi has been settled. The amount of demand pertaining to Mumbai outstanding is Rs. 1,900 million. Disputes with BSNL In accordance with the Inter Connect Usages Regulations, we had accounted for networking charges payable to BSNL amounting to Rs.6,924 million and Rs. 3,627 million for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. However BSNL had raised a bill for the interconnection charges for the calls originating from our network and terminating/transiting at/from BSNL amounting to Rs.12,165 million and Rs. 8,030 million for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Our contention was that the claim was not adequately supported by BSNL and hence not accepted by us. In the absence of an interconnection agreement, we had provided NLD/ILD access charges for the period ended March 31, 2002 at the rates lower than those demanded by BSNL. Subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2004, in a meeting held among the DOT, BSNL and us, the rates for NLD calls for the year ended March 31, 2002 were agreed, and accordingly we have accounted additional liability of Rs. 233 million during the year ended March 31, 2004. We may be required to pay ILD access charges amounting to Rs. 195 million for the period April 1, 2001 to January 31, 2002 on the settlement of the dispute with BSNL in this regard. During the year ended March 31, 2006, the DOT had constituted a three member committee from its Telecommunications Department comprising the Member (Production), Member (Finance), and Deputy Director General (Business Solution) to resolve the issues relating to networking charges. Based on the recommendations of the Committee in their minutes dated January 2006, the networking charges payable to BSNL for the years March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2005 have been settled at Rs.14,078 million as against Rs.10,551 million. Further, the Committee has also settled networking charges for the years 2000 to 2003 in the meeting held in January 2006. Accordingly, an amount of Rs. 3,809 million (including the incremental charge of Rs. 3,527 million for the years 2004 and 2005) has been accounted as networking charges in the statement of operations for the year ended March 31, 2006. Subsequent to the year end March 31, 2006, meetings have been held between BSNL and us wherein BSNL has raised additional claims for the year up to March 31, 2005 aggregating Rs.2,678 million and claims amounting to Rs.5,256 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 on account of networking and others charges. As against these claim for the year ended March 31, 2006 we have accounted Rs. 4,040 million for networking charges payable to BSNL. Our contention is that since all claims relating to networking and other charges for the period up to March 31, 2005 have already been settled in accordance with the minutes of the DOT committee held on January 2006 and the claims for the year ended March 31, 2006, are not adequately supported by the BSNL and hence not accepted by the us. Further, as we are in the process of discussing/reconciling their claims for the year ended March 31, 2006 with BSNL and may be required to pay an additional amount based on the final settlement, however such payments will not have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Management believes that an adverse outcome in respect of the above is not probable. During the year ended March 31, 2006, we had raised claims against BSNL for duct charges, TAX claims and reciprocal service claims amounting to Rs. 2,116 million, Rs. 2,482 million and Rs. 320 million, respectively. The duct charges pertain to annual usage of infrastructure (ducts) for the period October 1, 2000 to March 31, 2006, the TAX claims pertain to our Trunk Automatic Exchange (“TAX”) used by BSNL for the period from February 1, 2004 to March 31, 2006 and the reciprocal service claims are on account of Reciprocal Service Connections provided to BSNL employees for the period October 1, 2000 to March 31, 2006. Management has not recognized these claims as income in the statement of operations considering the history of other disputed claims with BSNL the fact that currently there is no separate agreement for these services, and that BSNL has not accepted these claims. During the year ended March 31, 2007, we had raised claims against BSNL for duct charges and TAX uses charges amounting Rs. 478 million and Rs. 1251 million, respectively. We have not recognized these claims as 31 Table of Contents income in the statement of operations considering the history of other disputed claims with BSNL, that currently there is no separate agreement for these services, and that BSNL has not accepted these claims. Disputes with DOT On the formation of the Company, employees were deputed to us on deemed deputation status from the DOT and we were required to contribute for the Leave Salary and Pension Contribution (“LSPC”) as per the rates prescribed by the Government (11% for leave salary and 14% for pension contribution). We had accrued for these expenses amounting to Rs. 2,885 million for the period 1986 to 1998, and subsequently paid them to the DOT. During the year ended March 31, 2006, a Committee was set up to examine the amount of LSPC contributions payable by us to the DOT. The Committee concluded that an additional amount of Rs.656 million was payable on account of short payment of the LSPC contribution and an amount of Rs.1,738 million is payable on account of interest payable on delayed payment of the LSPC contributions. We accepted the claim of the DOT for Rs.656 million and we had expensed it in our statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2006. In respect of Rs.1,738 million, we have contested the claim from the DOT on the contention we had abided by the DOT’s decision at all stages and deposited substantial sums as required. Management believes that an adverse outcome in respect of the above is not probable. Other Disputes In 1998, M&N Publication made claims for Rs 5415 million against the Company. These claims arise out of contracts for the printing of telephone directories for Delhi and Mumbai. Each of these claims includes claims for loss of reputation and loss of business opportunities aggregating to Rs. 2000 million. The Company has made claims of Rs. 4169 million against M&N Publications for failure to perform the contracts. These claims are pending before a sole arbitrator. The Company believes that it has valid defenses to these claims and based on opinion received from legal counsel, management believes that an adverse outcome is not probable. In the year 2004-2005, Alcatel brought claims aggregating to Rs. 129.20 million (including interest from 1996 till date on the claims made Rs 87.91 million) (March 2006 Rs. 121.21 million) against the Company. These claims arise out of contract for supply of digital local telephone exchange equipment. These claims include claims for loss of reputation and loss of business opportunity aggregating to Rs 20 million. The Company believes it has a valid defense to these claims and based on opinion received from legal counsel, management believes that an adverse outcome is not probable. The Company has received claims aggregating Rs. 336.95 million (March 2006 Rs 308.60 million) from various PRM service providers (World Phone, Voice Infotech and ITC). These claims arise from the contract for PRM services, which were started in the year 1999-2000. MTNL has not paid commission payable for these services to these providers, as the amount was subsequently not recovered from the subscribers. The claims include Rs 119 million towards loss of profit and wasteful expenditure incurred by the parties.The Company believes it has a valid defense to these claims and based on opinion received from legal counsel, management believes that an adverse outcome is not probable. The Company has received claims from CMC limited aggregating to Rs. 497.52 million.(March 2006 Rs 452.52 Million). These claims arise out of usage of leased circuits for which MTNL has charged them rental for CUG services as per the revised tariff plan which is disputed by CMC Limited. These claims include claims for loss of reputation, business opportunity and undue harassment aggregating to Rs. 220 million. The Company believes it has a valid defense to these claims and based on opinion received from legal counsel, management believes that an adverse outcome is not probable. Additionally the Company is also involved in law suits and claims amounting to Rs. 1967.11 million pending at various authorities which arise in the ordinary course of the business. Management believes that it has a valid defense against these claims and an adverse outcome is not probable. These would not have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 32 Table of Contents Dispute with Other Operator During the year ended March 31, 2005, we noticed that a very large number of calls were received from certain levels of another operator’s network. On further investigation/analysis, it came to our notice that these were actually ILD calls, which were being received on Local/NLD trunks and that the CLIs (Caller line Identification) of these calls had been tampered by the other operator. We raised a demand on the other operator based on the relevant penal clauses of its agreement aggregating Rs.3,412 million for a period of six months beginning April 2004. The other operator has disputed the above claim and under repeated threats of disconnection, obtained a stay order from High Court of Delhi. In the year ended March 31, 2005 during the course of the hearings, the honorable High Court directed the other operator to pay Rs.2,368 million to us. During the year ended March 31, 2006, the other operator under directions from the honorable High Court has further deposited Rs.1,040 million with us. During the year ended March 31, 2007, the petition filed by the other operator before the High Court has been dismissed as withdrawn with the liberty to take such in accordance with law. Management believes that it is a remote possibility that these amounts will have to be refunded. However, these amounts have not been recognized as income. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE We are controlled by the Indian government and are not part of any group. We have no subsidiaries, which are considered “significant subsidiaries”. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Infrastructure We believe that we have created one of the most technologically advanced networks in India. Our network capacity is growing rapidly, and as of March 31, 2007 we had a total capacity of 9.10 million lines. We operate entirely separate but similar networks in each of Delhi and Mumbai. Each network comprises a switching and transmission network, which we refer to as our “switching network” and a local loop network. The local loop network principally consists of copper wire based lines, connecting subscribers to the main exchanges or the remote line units. A number of subscribers are connected to the switching network via fiber-optic cable and wireless-in-local-loop technology. The switching network includes the trunk automatic exchanges, which are used for routing domestic long distance and international calls, the main switching exchanges, through which all calls are routed, and remote line units, which are connected to the main exchanges. The local loop network comprises all connections between the main exchanges or the remote line units and the subscriber. Subscribers are either connected directly to the main exchanges or, depending upon the distance from the main exchanges, via remote line units. All domestic long distance traffic, including traffic between Delhi and Mumbai, is routed through BSNL’s network. Overview of Our Network At March 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Delhi Access lines in service (access lines in service) (thousands) 2,065 2,155 2,003 1,719 1,621 2,999 Equipped capacity (thousands) (1) 2,775 2,967 3,154 3,737 4,219 4,385 Number of exchanges: TAXs (2) 3 4 4 4 4 4 Main exchanges and RLUs (3) 251 309 329 339 336 336 Digital lines (thousands) (1) 2,775 2,967 3,154 3,737 4,219 4,385 Digitalization rate (4) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Mumbai Access lines in service (access lines in service) (thousands) 2,431 2,445 2,408 2,355 2,256 3,668 Equipped capacity (thousands) (1) 2,876 2,886 2,806 3,657 4,217 4,717 Number of exchanges: TAXs (2) 4 4 4 4 4 4 Main exchanges and RLUs (3) 180 183 183 183 193 202 Digital lines (in thousands) (1) 2,876 2,886 2,806 3,657 4,217 4,717 Digitalization rate (4) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 33 Table of Contents (1) Represents lines that are connected to digital switches. (2) TAX means trunk automatic exchange, a switch that routes calls to BSNL’s domestic fixed-line network and VSNL’s international gateways. (3) RLU means remote line units, which are switches that connect a subscriber to the main exchange. (4) Percentage of total equipped capacity that consists of digital lines. Switching Equipment All of our exchanges are fully automated and our switching capacity is 100% digital. Our switching network consisted of 336 nodes in Delhi and 202 nodes in Mumbai as of March 31, 2007. Each node has a capacity of between 1,000 and 100,000 lines. At March 31, 2007, there were 90 main exchanges and 246 remote line units in Delhi and 89 main exchanges and 113 remote line units in Mumbai. Because one or more main exchanges in each node are connected to one or more main exchanges in every other node, traffic is routed in a “mesh” configuration. We have also installed high capacity tandem switches in Delhi and Mumbai to more efficiently route traffic between exchanges. A majority of calls to our main exchanges are now being routed through the tandem switch to another node. This has resulted in a more integrated network and has reduced the amount of capital expenditure required to install additional capacity in our switching network. Each node is connected to each trunk automatic exchange. Interconnection to basic service providers, private cellular operators and Internet service providers is provided by dedicated access to the main exchanges or tandem switches. Our entire switching network is connected by fiber optic links. Transmission Our transmission network consists largely of plesiochronous digital hierarchy, or PDH, and synchronous digital hierarchy, or SDH, optical fiber. PDH and SDH are transmission standards for digital signal transmission. We plan to continue to deploy SDH optical fiber and synchronous transfer mode terminals to improve network efficiency. Access Network We construct our access network with copper cable, which is extended to distribution points to terminate connections. We have commenced deploying five pair underground cable into subscribers’ premises where an internal distribution point is installed. We believe this access network will reduce the number of telephone poles and improve reliability of the service. We have also implemented fiber-to-the-curb/building access and offer increased bandwidth for business and high usage subscribers. Fiber-to-the-curb/building is also intended to supplement existing copper wire with optic fiber. We have provided digital loop carriers, or DLCs, for this purpose. In fiscal 2006-07, we added 45 access terminals in our network. We have installed wireless-in-local-loop services using CDMA technology where feasible in Delhi and Mumbai as a substitute for fixed-line access to enhance basic service penetration, provide quicker installation and cover areas where the installation of cable would not be economical. 34 Table of Contents Quality of Our Network We are conducting an ongoing program to improve the quality of services offered. Our principal quality measures are call completion rate and fault rate. The table below shows the quality improvements we have made since our inception in 1986. We achieved this primarily by focusing on improvements to our switching network. Part of our local loop network is comprised of old paper core copper cables, which are a principal cause of network faults. We are in the process of upgrading and replacing copper access lines and believe that this will have a positive impact on call completion rates and fault rates. Year Ended March 31, 1986 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 (inception) Fault rate/100 (1) Telephones/month: Delhi 34.9 21.4 18.7 12.3 11.1 10.7 9.4 Mumbai 21.2 11.80 9.8 8.8 9.0 8.4 10.5 Call completion rate (2) Delhi Local calls 77.3% 51.0 52.25 57.0 57.6 47.3 48.3 Domestic long distance calls 30.0% 41.07 28.0 28.0 30.0 33.6 38.5 Mumbai Local calls 93.0% 58.15 58.0 50.3 58.3 55.1 56.7 Domestic long distance calls 23.9% 45.9 33.94 36.6 37.4 36.6 37.0 (1) The fault rate is calculated by dividing the total number of verified customer complaints of malfunctioning telephone equipment and services by the total number of access lines in service and multiplying the result by 100. (2) For dates covering years after 1986, the call completion rate was measured on the basis of actual calls completed. Call completion rates measured on this basis are lower than if measured on a free-to-free test basis since calls that are not answered because the recipient’s line is engaged or where the network cannot complete the call because of congestion are deemed incomplete. Call completion rates measured on different bases are not comparable. Suppliers In carrying out our development program, we have used a core group of international equipment suppliers to purchase key switching equipment in order to maintain technological compatibility while simultaneously decreasing dependence on any one vendor. We believe that we have developed stable relationships with our suppliers. Development Activities Development activities are carried out by a planning group in each of the Delhi and Mumbai operations, with overall planning activity coordinated at the corporate office in Delhi. The main focus of each planning group is the expansion of existing services, the development of new services and the introduction of new technologies that are tested for their reliability, compliance with internal and DOT technical specifications and compatibility with our network. GSM Cellular and CDMA Networks We launched our cellular services using GSM technology in Delhi and Mumbai in February 2001, currently have an installed capacity of 10.25 lakh linesin Delhi and 13.25 lakh lines in Mumbai. We believe that current penetration rates in Mumbai and Delhi remain attractive for continued high growth in subscriber base. MTNL this year has awarded a tender for further adding 2 million lines of GSM basedon 2G/3G each in Mumbai and Delhi in phase-I PO for 750 K 2G lines each in Delhi and Mumbai has been placed. 35 Table of Contents In addition, we have launched lower-cost CDMA-based limited mobility services each in Mumbai and Delhia, and presently have a total of 1,18,648 subscribers with an installed capacity of 10,98,230 most of which are based on more advanced CDMA 2000 1X technology). We believe that this new limited mobile service will enable us to target a wider customer base that is more price sensitive than GSM customers and that does not require India-wide and international roaming facilities. We intend to compete effectively in these growing markets by providing high quality service at affordable rates. Our CDMA mobile service offers only limited mobility within Delhi and Mumbai, and currently we are not permitted to offer roaming facilities on this service. If we obtain the newly-available Unified Access License we will be able to offer full mobility. CDMA fixed wireless is a substitute for fixed-line access. Fixed wireless allos us to enhance basic service penetration, provide quicker installation and cover areas where the installation of cable would not be economical. Our CDMA mobile service is marketed under the brand name Garuda. Network Modernization We have historically planned our capital expenditures on five-year programs that are subject to approval by the DOT and the Planning Commission of the Indian government. The Ninth MTNL Plan was the five-year investment plan covering the period from April 1, 1997 to March 31, 2002, and the Tenth MTNL Plan covers the five-year period from April 1, 2002 to March 31, 2007. Generally, five-year plan investment targets are much higher than actual investment levels. Additionally, rapid changes in communications technology and customer preferences render detailed investment planning for five years impossible. Our current estimate for capital expenditures for fiscal 2008 is Rs 23,090 million; however, based on our experience in past years, we expect that the actual amount of capital expenditures for the year will be less than our estimate. The following table shows our network-related capital expenditures for the periods indicated. (Rs. in millions) Year Ended March 31, 2005 2006 2007 Local switching and access lines (including CDMA)/ Transmission/Network Modernization/Expansion Abroad 5,748 4,241 4,460 Information technology 426 124 1,730 Land, buildings and vehicles 1,143 881 817 Build-out of GSM cellular networks 3,068 1,608 951 Total 10,385 6,854 7,958 We have funded our recent capital expenditures to the extent incurred, and intend to fund the remaining capital expenditures, primarily from cash flow from operations and existing cash balances. Our capital expenditures may be higher as we introduce international long distance service, if demand for our GSM cellular service or CDMA-based mobile service is higher than anticipated or if we otherwise enter new markets or provide additional services. Properties Our principal executive offices are located in Delhi and are leased from the Life Insurance Corporation of India. We have interests in various properties in Delhi and Mumbai that consist of land and buildings for offices, administrative centers and technical facilities. We believe that all of our owned and leased properties are well maintained and adequate for their present use. In 1987, the assets and properties of the DOT located in Delhi and Mumbai were transferred to us by an order of the government of India and a deed of sale. Indian law generally requires that to perfect the transfer or lease of real property, the transfer should be evidenced by a formal duly stamped deed of transfer and registered with the Central Land Registrar within a specified period after the execution of the deed of transfer or lease. A formal transfer deed for real property of the DOT transferred by the government of India to us has been executed but 36 Table of Contents has not been registered with the appropriate authorities. The formal transfer deed and the physical delivery of possession of the DOT’s non-real estate assets has resulted in the transfer of these non-real estate assets of the DOT to us in Delhi and Mumbai. We believe that our use of these properties is not affected by the fact that this deed has not been registered with the appropriate authorities. Indian law requires payment of stamp duty (at rates which vary among states) on instruments, which effect transfer of title to real estate or in respect of leases of real estate. Applicable stamp duty has not been paid in respect of any of the properties acquired or leased by us. Accordingly, we may be liable for stamp duty and related penalties if a deed is executed by us in the future under the applicable rates of stamp duty and penalty payable in the state where the property is located (other than with respect to the DOT properties acquired from the government of India as at March 30, 1987). All liabilities for stamp duties in respect of the DOT properties acquired by us from the government of India as at March 30, 1987 are to be borne by the government of India. We have been advised by our counsel that although we have valid possession to all of the property, including the risks and rewards of ownership and title, to enable us to perfect and thereby acquire marketable title to real property in our possession, we would need to have relevant documents relating to transfer or lease of real property duly stamped and registered. In preparing our financial statements, the provision for this stamp duty has been made on a best estimate basis. TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION IN INDIA The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India In March 1997, the Indian government established the TRAI, an independent regulatory authority under the provisions of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act. The TRAI is an autonomous body comprised of a chairperson and not more than two full-time members and not more than two part-time members appointed by the Central government, and has primary responsibility for: · making non-binding recommendations to the DOT, either at the request of the DOT or on its own, as to: · the need for and the timing of the introduction of new service providers; · the terms and conditions of licenses to new or existing service providers; · revocation of existing licenses for non-compliance · measures to facilitate competition and promote efficiency to facilitate growth in the industry; · technology and equipment improvements in providers’ infrastructures and in the industry generally; · ensuring compliance of providers with license terms; · ensuring technical compatibility between providers; · regulating revenue sharing between providers; · establishing quality standards and ensuring compliance through periodic reviews of providers; and · determining time schedules pursuant to which providers will establish inter-connection between their networks. The TRAI also has the authority to, from time to time, set the rates at which domestic and international telecommunications services are provided in India. The TRAI does not have authority to grant licenses to service providers or renew licenses (those functions remain with the DOT). The TRAI, however, has the power to: 37 Table of Contents · call upon service providers to furnish information relating to their operations; · appoint persons to make official inquiries; · inspect books, and · issue directions to service providers to ensure their proper functioning. Failure to follow TRAI directives may lead to the imposition of fines. The TRAI had previously acted in both a regulatory and an adjudicatory role. The Indian government has amended the provisions of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act providing a separate adjudicative body called the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal, also known as the Appellate Tribunal, to adjudicate disputes between · a licensor (i.e., the DOT) and a licensee; · regulator and service providers; · two or more service providers; and · between a service provider and consumer advocacy groups. Additionally, the government of India, any Indian state or local government or any person may apply to the Appellate Tribunal for adjudication of any of the disputes listed above or appeal any order of the TRAI to the Appellate Tribunal. Unified License In July 2003, the TRAI issued a consultation paper on, among other things, introduction of a unified telecommunications license, under which it would be possible for a telecommunications service provider to provide both basic services and cellular services. The consultation paper also addresses the possibility of licensing the provision of international and national long distance services and internet services under this one unified license. On October 27, 2003, the TRAI recommended that considering the vision of the government of India through various policies (e.g., NTP94, NTP99, Convergence Bill), technological development, market trends, international trends, the need to accelerate growth of telephone density, public interest and for the proper conduct of the Service/telegraphs, it is recommended that within six months “Unified Licensing” regime should be initiated for all services covering all geographical areas using any technology. On November 15, 2003, the TRAI’s recommendations on unified licensing were accepted by the Government of India. They provide for implementing Unified Licensing for all telecom services within a time bound manner, starting with Unified Access Licensing. Based upon the TRAI’s recommendations, the DOT has issued guidelines for Unified Access (Basic and Cellular) Service License through their letter No.808-26/2003-VAS dated November 11, 2003. New Telecom Policy 1999 and Subsequent Developments In March 1999, the Indian government introduced its 1999 telecom policy, which sets forth a new policy framework for telecommunications regulation in India. One of the stated goals of the 1999 telecom policy is to foster greater competition in the telecommunications industry. To that end, the 1999 telecom policy liberalizes the regulation of the industry by allowing multiple basic service providers in any service area, with the number of new entrants and their mode of service to be determined by the government of India. The 1999 telecom policy allows direct interconnectivity and sharing of infrastructure between a basic service provider and any other type of service provider in its area of operations. Such service providers must negotiate the terms of any interconnection. 38 Table of Contents In addition, the 1999 telecom policy provides that either the DOT (now operating through BSNL) or Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited may be licensed as an additional cellular operator in any service area it wishes to enter. Additional cellular service operators may be licensed in the future, based on the recommendation of the TRAI, following its ongoing review (to occur at a minimum of at least once every two years) of frequency spectrum utilization by existing providers, the optimal use of available spectrum and the requirements of the market, competition and the public interest. Further, the 1999 telecom policy states that competition in the international long distance market would be reviewed and VSNL would no longer have monopoly in this field. The Indian government opened this market for competition beginning April 1, 2002. Licenses have recently been granted to a few companies like the Reliance Infocomm Limited, Bharti Tele-Ventures Limited, Data Access (India) Limited and BSNL for provision of international long distance services. We have obtained a letter of intent from the DOT for, and complied with various formalities to obtain, such a license and intend to deploy this service as soon as the license is issued. The 1999 telecom policy states that the Indian telecommunications industry must expand at a significantly greater pace and the Indian government must liberalize regulation commensurate with worldwide trends in order for the Indian telecommunications industry to fully develop in terms of technology, services, quality and market penetration. As the teledensity in India has reached a level of over 10% as of August, 2005, the industry has achieved a major requirement of the country in terms of policy objectives. The TRAI has issued the IUC regulation 2 of 2003, dated October 29, 2003. The IUC Regulation (2 of 2003) covers arrangements among service providers for payment of Interconnection Usage Charges for Telecommunication Services, covering Basic Service, which includes WLL (M) services, Cellular Mobile Service Providers and Long Distance Operators throughout the territory of India & ILD operators. The TRAI has issued IUC Regulation (1 of 2005) dated January 6, 2005 and implemented from February 1, 2005. In this IUC amendment, the authority emphasized lower tariffs and linked high sustained subscriber growth, plans or consistent decline in tariffs to give sustained boost to subscriber growth and teledensity. The methodology of imposing ADC per minute charge kept unchanged. Only the Access Deficit Charge has been changed, ADC on long distance calls and international calls has been reduced. Further, in the amended IUC regulation, BSNL only, and not the other fixed lines operators, will receive ADC on all incoming international calls and outgoing calls from Mobile/WLL(M). This regulation, however also envisages that all the operators will continue to receive the same ADC as per earlier regime but our receipts on account of ADC will reduce drastically after the implementation of this amended regulation. Accordingly, we had challenged the regulation in the TDSAT. The TDSAT did not grant any stay and the regulation has been implemented from February 1, 2005. In July 2006, the TDSAT dismissed the same with no orders as to costs. The TRAI has issued IUC Regulation (1 of 2006) dated February 28, 2006 which was implemented from March 1, 2006. In this IUC amendment, the methodology of imposing ADC was changed from a ‘per minute basis’ charge to a ‘% of AGR basis’ charge. The ADC is now payable by us @ of 1.5% of the AGR for Mobile services only. In addition, the ADC on international calls has also been reduced on a per minute basis. The TRAI has issued ADC Regulation (2 of 2007) dated March 21, 2007 and implemented from April 1, 2007. In this amended regulation ADC on percentage revenue share was reduced to 0.75% from existing 1.50% of AGR. ADC on outgoing international calls was reduced to zero from existing level of Rs. 0.80 per minute and on incoming international calls reduced to Rs. 1.00 per minute from existing Rs. 1.60 per minute. The recommendations of the 1999 telecom policy, and certain important subsequent developments, are as follows: Basic Services, including CDMA-based Fixed Wireless and Mobile Services The 1999 telecom policy permits direct interconnectivity between basic service providers and any other type of service provider (including another basic service provider or a cellular service provider) in their areas of operation and sharing of infrastructure with any type of service provider. It allows the basic service providers to directly interconnect with VSNL after the opening up of national long distance service from January 1, 2000. The basic service providers have been permitted to utilize last mile linkages or transmission links within its service area made available by other service providers. 39 Table of Contents In accordance with the 1999 telecom policy, the TRAI undertook a review of interconnectivity between providers in different service areas. In July 2002 the authority adopted a reference interconnect offer regulation which includes the model reference interconnect offer/draft agreement and the reference interconnect offer guidelines. Pursuant to this, service providers are permitted to interconnect with other service providers on the basis that they shall not discriminate as to the terms and conditions offered to different service providers. Effective May 1, 2003, the authority implemented a regulation providing a complete set of interconnect usage charges. The regulation adopts a calling party pays principle, so that the operator responsible for origination of a call bears liability for payment of the interconnect fees for transmission and/or termination. In January 2001 the DOT issued guidelines for basic services, including provisions for wireless access systems limited within the local area. In April 2001, the Indian government announced that all basic licensees, including us, may offer wireless-in-local loop services under their basic service licenses. On August 26, 2005 the DOT clarified that Fixed wireless Service has the character of limited mobile service and, therefore, is categorized into limited mobile service within the scope of a basic service license. Cellular Service The 1999 telecom policy also provides for greater competition among cellular service providers. The government of India proposes to review spectrum utilization from time to time in view of emerging spectrum availability, optimal use of spectrum, market requirements, competition and the public interest. The TRAI will provide recommendations to the government of India with respect to new licenses at least every two years. The 1999 telecom policy permits direct interconnectivity between licensed cellular service providers and any other type of service provider (including another cellular service provider) in their area of operation including sharing of infrastructure with any other type of service provider. The cellular service providers have been allowed to directly interconnect with the VSNL after opening of national long distance from January 1, 2000. Interconnectivity between service providers in different service areas is now governed by the July 2002 reference interconnect offer regulation and the May 2003 interconnection usage charges regulation. With the interconnection usage charges regulation and related tariff changes, the TRAI introduced the calling party pays principle, resulting in the elimination of customer charges (other than roaming charges) for incoming cellular calls. Unified Access License In November 2003, the DOT issued guidelines for the Unified Access (Basic and Cellular) Services License; which permit the provision of both basic and cellular services (with mobility) within a service area. We have submitted a request to the DOT to migrate to UAS Licenses for our service area under mobile licenses for Delhi and Mumbai to be able to provide services at par with other operators in these areas. In September 2006, our request for migration of our CMTS Licenses to UAS Licenses as our operating cellular service in the licensed area was not accepted by the DOT. In October 2006, we sought reconsideration and grant of permission for migration to UAS Licenses. Domestic Long Distance On August 13, 2000, the Indian government published guidelines for the liberalization of the domestic long distance market subsequent to which applications were received for domestic long distance licenses. The Bharti Group and Reliance Group have been awarded domestic long distance licenses. These guidelines do not restrict the number of new entrants into this market, but entrants must satisfy a number of requirements. In addition, entrants into the domestic long distance market must pay a one time entry fee of Rs.1 billion and provide bank guarantees of Rs.4 billion which will be refunded upon completion of their network obligations. On May 10, 2006, we were awarded a license for providing National Long distance (NLD) service. Since then we carry our own domestic long distance service between Mumbai and Delhi. 40 Table of Contents International Long Distance The Indian government has recently issued licenses to several private sector companies for the provision of international long distance services. In addition, the Tata Group, which controls Tata Teleservices, acquired a controlling interest in VSNL, which had been government-controlled. On our application, the government of India has issued us a letter of intent for an international Long Distance Service License. As desired by the licensor, insertion of certain clauses in our Memorandum and Articles of Association and Shareholders Agreement is in process. We have submitted our papers and required Bank Guarantee in this regard. In consultation with DOT, our subsidiary MTL has been entrusted the work of laying submarine cable for international traffic for use by both BSNL and MTNL, with joint ownership. Other Service Providers New Telecom Policy (NTP) 1999 for providing application like tele-banking, telemedicine, tele-trading, tele-education, e-commerce and call centers. Other Service Providers (OSPs) are allowed to operate by using infrastructure provided by various Access Service Providers. Such OSPs are required to be registered with the DOT. Infrastructure Providers On June 28, 2007, we were awarded a license for providing Infrastructure Provider Category-1 (IP-1). Companies registered as IP-1 can provide assets such as Dark Fibre, Right of Way, Duct space and Tower. IPTV Service We have launched the IPTV service to our customers of our available fixed line network as Value Added Service in Mumbai on October 10, 2006 and in Delhi on November 1, 2006 under Basic Service License as Value Added Service. MPLS Services (Multi-Protocol Label Switching) On July 23, 2007, MPLS Service was launched. MPLS is a backbone for our various IP Based Services Keeping our trend of introducing modern and latest technologies at affordable rates to our customers, we [usher] IP based MPLS Technology to offer world class IP VPN (Virtual Private Network) services. MPLS was developed to provide faster data packet movement than traditional IP routing. The technology enables secure VPN to be built and allows scalability that will make it possible for MTNL to offer assured growth to its customers without having to make significant investments. MTNL is now geared to provide bandwidth on demand, IPTV, Video Conferencing, Voice Over IP (VoIP) and a host of other value added services that could significantly change the way a corporate business works. Internet Policy In November 1998, the government of India announced a new Internet policy, to increase the usage of the Internet. Effective April 1, 2002, the Indian government adopted guidelines under which internet service providers could provide internet telephony services. The government of India passed the Information Technology Act, 2000 to facilitate the development of a secure environment for electronic commerce. This Act establishes a regulatory authority for electronic commerce, provides legal validity to information in the form of electronic records and permits, unless otherwise agreed, an acceptance of a contract to be expressed by electronic means of communication. It facilitates electronic intercourse in trade and commerce by providing the legal framework for authentication and origin of electronic 41 Table of Contents record/communication through digital signature and eliminates uncertainties over writing and signature requirements. We believe that as of March 20, 2007 there were approximately 507 licenses for providing Internet services issued in India. The Tariff Order Effective May 1, 1999, the TRAI implemented The Telecommunications Tariff Order 1999. The intention of the tariff order was to protect consumers by aligning tariffs that telecommunications providers may charge for the service provided while ensuring the commercial viability of the various service providers and so encouraging the expansion of the Indian telecommunications industry. This “rebalancing” of tariffs is to take place in stages. The first stage of tariff rebalancing in May 1999 reduced the charge per pulse from Rs.1.40 to Rs.1.20, decreased local call pulse durations from five to three minutes (effectively increasing local call charges), increased domestic and international call pulse durations (effectively reducing domestic long distance and international call charges) and increased monthly line rental rates for subscribers that generate more than 200 pulses per month from Rs.190 to Rs.250. The second stage of tariff rebalance further reduced domestic long distance and international call charges effective October 1, 2000 and increased monthly line rental rates to Rs.250 for all subscribers effective February 1, 2001. Domestic long distance call charges were further reduced significantly with effect from January 14, 2002, March 7, 2003 and May 1, 2004, and international long distance call charges were subject to further significant reduction with effect from July 20, 2002, October 21, 2003 and April 10, 2004. Effective May 1, 2003, as part of its effort to balance the effects of prior tariff reductions, the TRAI changed the standard plan that we must offer all customers by increasing monthly rentals for basic services from Rs. 250 to Rs.280, reduced the local call pulse duration (for calls made to fixed and fixed wireless lines) from three minutes to two minutes and the number of free monthly call pulses. We reduced drastically the ISD tariff with effect from October 2, 2004. We are offering different STD rates for different locations. Calls from Mumbai to Maharashtra, Goa and MTNL Delhi Network are at Rs. 1.65 per minute. We increased the pulse rate between Delhi and Mumbai for Basic to WLL(M) of MTNL network from 30 sec. to 180 sec. uniform for all plans excluding One India Plan. For all other places STD rate is flat Rs. 2.00 per minute from Fixed, WLL(M) and STD rate for Cellular service is Rs. 2.00/1.75 per minute for Mumbai/Delhi. ISD rates to outside India are: Uniform pulse rates (per minute) across all Plans Country From Basic & WLL (M) From Cellular Postpaid From Cellular Prepaid Delhi Mumbai USA, UK (fixed), Canada and all countries with 001 access, Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Thailand Rs. 6.30 Rs. 6.30 Rs. 6.30 Rs. 6.30 UK (Mobile), Europe, Gulf, Asia, SAARC, China, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Christmas Island and New Zealand Rs. 9.20 Rs. 9.20 Rs. 9.20 Rs. 9.20 Rest of World Rs. 18.00 Rs. 18.00 Rs. 18.00 Rs. 18.00 IMMARSAT Rs. 240 Rs. 240 Rs. 240 Rs. 240 MTNL has introduced a new scheme One India Roaming Freedom Plan under Postpaid Cellular Services under GSM license service as of March 6, 2007 in the service area of MTNL Delhi and Mumbai. The salient features are as under: 42 Table of Contents S. No. Particulars One India Roaming Freedom Plan 1. Monthly Fixed Charges in Rs. 550 2. Pulse rate in seconds 60 3. Roaming Call charges in Rs. per minute a) Incoming Calls i) Free Incoming Calls in minutes 300 (in minutes) ii) Incoming Calls beyond 300 minutes 1.00 b) Outgoing Calls i) Within visted network 1.00 ii) Beyond visited network (STD) 1.00 4. International Out-Roamer Charges in Rs. a) Fixed monthly Charges 90 b) Charges for calls made or calls received while International roaming or SMS sent shall be as per One India Tariff Plan. In case foreign operators do not levy any charges for incoming calls, then a sum of Rs. 40 per minute + actual charges as applicable in the home network. Roaming Charges Reduction in tariffs for Roaming Services In compliance with the Telecommunications Tariff (Forty fourth Amendment) Order, 2007, dated January 24, 2007, on Reduction in Tariffs for Roaming Services became effective from February 15, 2007 at the following rates. For Prepaid & Postpaid Service PARTICULARS REVISED ROAMING TARIFF Rs. per minute Outgoing calls within visited LSA (local) Rs. 1.40 Outgoing calls beyond visited LSA (STD) Rs. 2.40 Incoming calls under roaming Rs. 1.75 Notes: 1. No fixed monthly/weekly/daily charges on national roaming subscriber will be applicable under any plan. 2. No extra surcharge. 3. No separate PSTN charges on roaming calls. 4. Receiving SMS is free while roaming. The TRAI has issued the Telecommunication Tariff (28 amendments) (5 of 2003) dated July 5, 2003. A tariff plan once offered by an Access Provider shall be available to a subscriber for a minimum period of six months from the date of enrollment of the subscriber to that tariff plan. Because we retain the remainder of prices of domestic and international long distance calls originating on our network, net of interconnect charges, by lowering long distance rates the tariff reductions have reduced the revenue we receive per call. We believe that, to date, the tariff order has not resulted in significantly higher long distance usage and that, accordingly, the tariff order has had a negative impact on our revenues and earnings as the lower charges have not been offset by higher usage. The tariff order prescribes a reporting requirement such that a service provider must report any change in tariff to the TRAI within seven days from implementation. 43 Table of Contents The TRAI has issued the Telecommunication Tariff (36 amendments) Order, 2005 (3 of 2005) dated April 21, 2005 regarding revised ceiling tariff for different capacities reduced by 3 to 70% - for higher capacities 70% less than existing market rate. Briefly, the Authority has fixed revised ceiling tariff for the most commonly used capacities/speed i.e. 64 kbps, 128 kbps, 256 kbps, E1 (speed of 2 Mega bits per second), DS-3 (speed of 45 Mega bits per second) and STM-1 (speed of 155 Mega bits per second). The revised ceiling tariffs (for distance slab above 500 Km) in respect of DLC are summarized in the Table given below: Capacity / Speed Ceiling Tariff (Rs. in lakhs) 64 Kbps 0.44 128 Kbps 0.79 256 Kbps 1.36 E1 (2 Mbps) 8.50 DS-3 (45 Mbps) 62 STM-1 (155 Mbps) 165 Foreign Direct Investment Controls. Following is the current Indian government policy on foreign direct investment (FDI) in the telecom sector: (i) in basic Cellular, Value Added Services and Global Mobile Personal Communications by Satellite, FDI is permitted up to 49%, subject to licensing and security requirements and adherence by the companies (who are investing and the companies in which the investment is being made) to the license conditions for foreign equity cap and lock-in period for transfer and addition of equity and other license provisions. (ii) For ISPs with gateways, radio paging and end-to-end bandwidth, FDI is permitted up to 74% with FDI beyond 49% requiring Government approval. These services would be subject to licensing and security requirements. (iii) No equity cap is applicable to manufacturing activities. (iv) FDI up to 100% is allowed for the following activities in the telecom sector: (a) ISPs not providing gateways (both for satellite and submarine cables). (b) Infrastructure Providers providing dark fibre (IP Category I); (c) Electronic Mail, and (d) Voice Mail. The above would be subject to the following conditions: (a) FDI up to 100% is allowed subject to the condition that such companies would divest 26% of their equity in favour of Indian public in five years, if these companies are listed in other parts of the world; 44 Table of Contents (b) The above services would be subject to licensing and security requirements, wherever required; (c) Proposal for FDI beyond 49% shall be considered by FIPB on case to case basis. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the “Selected Financial and Operating Data” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, which appear elsewhere in this report. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. OPERATING RESULTS Overview A number of developments have significantly affected our results of operations. These developments and a number of potential developments may affect our results of operations, liquidity, capital resources and capital expenditures in future periods. These developments include: · adoption of the comprehensive interconnection usage charges regulation based on the calling party pays principle, with effect from May 1, 2003 and revision from time to time; · our expansion into new businesses such as providing cellular and CDMA-based fixed wireless and mobile services and the rapid introduction by several other operators of low-cost CDMA-based technologies that can be used for both fixed wireless and mobile services; · growing competition; · our expansion into foreign markets - to date Nepal and Mauritius; · new interconnect arrangements with international long distance carriers, including revenue sharing on incoming calls; · industry consolidation; · our investment programs to expand and modernize our network. Potential future developments include: · increased competition from basic and cellular operators, including the continued rapid introduction by several operators of low-cost CDMA-based technologies that can be used for both fixed wireless and mobile services; · continued consolidation in the industry; · further rate reductions as a result of intensifying competition or tariff reductions; · new interconnect agreements, including with BSNL; · license fee revisions, including revisions that may be applied retrospectively; 45 Table of Contents · our procuring a unified license regime; · the benefits of our new National Long Distance License obtained in May, 2006; · our laying a submarine cable jointly with BSNL from both the east and west coasts of India to Malaysia and the Middle East, respectively, to carry voice and data traffic with the intent to further extend to USA and Europe · possible direct or reverse merger with BSNL; · the implementation of voluntary retirement schemes for our employees; · transfer of our trunk auto exchanges to BSNL on the directions of DOT; and · further regulatory changes. Our future results of operations are also likely to be affected by macroeconomic trends such as the rate of growth of the Indian economy, particularly in Delhi and Mumbai, and the introduction of new technologies and products by our competitors and us. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates For fiscal year 2007, we have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with US GAAP, and the financial statements for the years ended March 31, 2005 and March 31, 2006 are also so presented. Our accounting policies are described in Note 2 of the Notes to our consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements which are part of this Annual Report are prepared in conformity with US GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the following policies to be most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing our financial statements and the uncertainties that could impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Recognition of Revenues. Revenues include amounts invoiced for call revenue, fixed monthly rental charges, roaming charges, activation fees, internet services, access and interconnection revenue and fees for value added services (‘VAS’). Revenues for fixed line and cellular telephonic services are recognized based upon metered call units (MCU) of traffic processed. Rental revenues and leased circuits rentals are recognized based upon contracted fees schedule. Revenues from internet services are recognized based on usage by subscribers. Revenues associated with access and interconnection for usage of our telephone network by other operators for local, national long distance and international long distance calls are recognized in accordance with the Interconnect Usage Charges Regulation released by the TRAI. The TRAI regulation specifies per minute rates for metered call units (MCU) of traffic terminated on our network. Revenues are shown net of service tax and applicable discounts and allowance. Unbilled receivables represent revenues recognized in respect of services provided from the last bill cycle date to the end of the year. These are billed in subsequent periods as per the terms of the billing plans. Billings in advance for services to be rendered and amounts charged for new connections are classified in current liabilities under the heading “Deferred income”. Amounts charged for new connections are recognized over the average life of the customer relationship. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from interconnect and access charges for calls terminating at our network. The related rules and telecommunication industry related policies are framed and determined by the Government of India through its departments and regulatory authorities such as the DOT and the TRAI. Since, interconnect and access charges are presently governed by IUC regime, we have not entered into separate agreements with certain other operators. Any subsequent amendment to the presently applicable guidelines with retrospective effect relating to tariff and interconnect/ access charges will impact our revenues significantly. 46 Table of Contents For the year ended March 31, 2007, a 10% increase or decrease in the rates for call revenue, including public call office revenue, would have increased or decreased the total revenue by approximately Rs.2210 million. A 2% increase or decrease in metered call units in respect of fixed line call revenue, including public call office revenue, would have increased or decreased the total revenue by approximately Rs.442 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. Further, a 5% increase or decrease in rental charges would have increased or decreased the total revenue by approximately Rs.618 million, as applicable, while a 5% increase or decrease in rates for interconnection services would have increased or decreased the total revenue by approximately Rs.119 million. License Fees. We are paying license fee and spectrum charges to DOT in accordance with conditions governing license fee for Basic Telephone Service and Cellular Telephone Service prescribed by DOT under the Revenues Sharing Regime, whereby license fee is computed at a specified percentage of adjusted gross revenue. The license fee is expensed as incurred. In view of the uncertain political environment and the fact that the license fee is determined on the basis of guidelines prescribed by regulatory authorities, the license fees is subject to change in the event any of these guidelines are modified subsequently with retrospective effect. During the year ended March 31, 2007, the applicable percentage of license fee was 10%. A change in the specified percentage to 12% or 8% would have increased or decreased the license fee charges by approximately Rs.963 million. Refer to the discussion in the ‘Comparison of Year Ended March 31, 2007 with Year Ended March 31, 2006’ under analysis of Results of Operation below. Network Charges. Charges associated with access to and interconnection to other operators’ network by us for local, national long distance and international long distance calls are recognized in accordance with the Interconnect Usage Charges Regulation released by the TRAI, where applicable, and in accordance with the terms of agreements entered into with other operators. TRAI regulation specifies per minute charges for metered call units (MCU) of traffic terminated on the other operators’ network. In view of the uncertain political environment and the fact that the network charges are determined on the basis of guidelines prescribed by regulatory authorities, the network charges are subject to change in the event any of these guidelines are modified subsequently with retrospective effect. Refer to the discussion in the ‘Comparison of Year Ended March 31, 2007 with Year Ended March 31, 2006’ under analysis of Results of Operation below. Pension and Other Retirement Benefits. We sponsor pension and other retirement plans in various forms covering substantially all employees who meet eligibility requirements. Several statistical and other factors, which attempt to anticipate future events, are used in calculating the expense and liability related to the plans. These factors include assumptions about the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases as determined by us, within certain guidelines. In addition, we also use subjective factors such as withdrawal and mortality rates to estimate these factors. The actuarial assumptions used by us may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences and the fact we have not invested pension and other retirement benefit funds to cover retirement liability may result in a significant impact to the amount of pension and other retirement benefit expense recorded by us. Holding all other factors constant, a 1% decrease or increase in the discount rate would increase or decrease the projected pension and postretirement benefit obligations by approximately Rs.3,466 million and Rs.963 million, respectively. The post retirement medical scheme for retirees expired on August 31, 2007. By order dated August 24, 2007, the company elected not to renew the scheme. As the Company does not at present have any plan for a similar or an alternative scheme, the actuary liabilitiy of Rs.5,794 million was considered as not required and reversed on the Statement of Operation. The Company considers this to be a material and an unusual item. Income Taxes. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the statements of income in the period such changes are enacted. We assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. The valuation allowance is based on our estimates of taxable income and the period over which our deferred tax assets will be recoverable. Significant management 47 Table of Contents judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates or we adjust these estimates in future periods we may need to establish an additional valuation allowance which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. The enacted tax rate applicable to us was 33.66% during the year ended March 31, 2007. A 1% increase or decrease in the tax rate to 34.66% or 32.66% would have increased or decreased the income tax expense for the year by Rs.106 million. As per section 80IA of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961 a Company, which starts to operate telecommunication services at any time on or after April 1, 1995, but before March 31, 2000, is entitled to a tax holiday for a period of 10 years beginning with the year in which such services are started. As per the tax holiday, 100% of the profits derived from such services are exempt from tax in the first 5 years, and 30% of such profits are exempt from tax for the next 5 years. MTNL on the basis of advice from its legal counsel has historically claimed such benefit. The Company’s claim have been rejected at the first appellate level and the case has been referred to the Committee of Disputes, which is a body formed by the Government to settle disputes between Government controlled undertakings and the Government. The Committee has referred the case to the Tax appellate authorities for reconsideration. During the year ended March 31, 2006, the case has been set aside by the Income Tax Appellate Authority for the assessment years 1998-99, 1999-00, 2000-01 and 2002-03 and has referred the matter back to the Assessing Officer for a fresh assessment after hearing the case again. For the years ending upto and including March 31,2006 ,considering that the benefit claimed by MTNL in the above years may not be ultimately allowed by tax authorities, the provision for current taxes in these years had been accounted in the basis of normal tax rates. During the year 2006-07 assessing officer has made fresh assessment for calculation of deduction u/s 80IA of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961 and allowed partial benefit to MTNL. MTNL has filed appeals against that partial allowance to the higher authority. (Also refer note 22 (b) (ii)). However, during the year, the benefits under section 80-IA were partially allowed. Accordingly, excess provisions pertaining to previous years amounting to Rs.4,555 million were adjusted to the tax expenses during the year. Legal Contingencies. As discussed in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened against us. We have accrued amounts as appropriate that represent our estimate of the probable outcome of these matters. The judgments we make with regard to whether to establish a reserve are based on an evaluation of all relevant factors by internal and external legal counsel, as well as subject matter experts and is based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. Claims are continually monitored and reevaluated as new information is obtained. We may not establish a liability for a particular matter until long after the litigation is filed, once a liability becomes probable and estimable. The actual settlement of such matters could differ from the judgments made in determining how much, if any, to accrue. We do not believe these proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. While we believe that our accruals for these matters are adequate, if the actual loss from a loss contingency is significantly different than the estimated loss, our results of operations may be over or understated. Recoverability of DOT Receivables. We are a Government Company under the Indian Companies Act. As of March 31, 2007, the Government owned 56.25% of our issued share capital. Consequently, the Government, acting through the DOT, continues to control us and will have the power to determine the outcome of transactions with the DOT or the assertion of claims against the DOT. We also provide and receive services to/from other Governmental departments and other public sector organizations on normal commercial terms. [Refer to Notes 3, 19, 22 and 25] to the consolidated financial statements for a further discussion on our related party transactions and significant risks and uncertainties. The receivables from DOT constitute a significant portion of our assets and our assessment of the recoverability of these assets involves critical accounting estimates. The assessments reflect management’s best assumptions and estimates. Significant management judgment is involved in estimating these factors, and they include inherent uncertainties. Management periodically evaluates and updates the estimates based on the conditions that influence these factors. The variability of these factors depends on a number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events, and thus our accounting estimates may change from period to period. If other assumptions and estimates had been used in the current period, the balances for these assets could have been materially impacted. Furthermore, if management uses different assumptions or if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted. Allowance for Accounts Receivable. We estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables each period and establish an allowance for uncollectible amounts. The amount of the allowance is based on the age of unpaid 48 Table of Contents amounts, information about the creditworthiness of customers, and other relevant information. Estimates of uncollectible amounts are revised each period, and changes are recorded in the period they become known. Estimated Useful Lives of Property And Equipment. We estimate the useful lives of plant and equipment in order to determine the amount of depreciation expense to be recorded during any reporting period. If technological changes were to occur more rapidly than anticipated or in a different form than anticipated, the useful lives assigned to these assets may need to be shortened, resulting in the recognition of increased depreciation expense in future periods. Likewise, if the anticipated technological or other changes occur more slowly than expected, the useful lives could be extended. This could result in a reduction of depreciation expense in future periods. Further, property and equipment are being depreciated over their useful lives which exceed the license term since the Company believes that its licenses will be extended beyond their current term. A one-year decrease or increase in the useful life of these assets would have increased or decreased depreciation expense by approximately Rs.714 million and Rs.580 million, respectively. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” we review these types of assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable over the remaining life of the asset or asset group. In order to determine if the asset or asset group is recoverable, we determine if the expected future undiscounted cash flows directly related to the asset or asset group are less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group. If so, we then determine if the carrying amount of the asset or asset group exceeds its fair value. We determine fair value using estimated discounted cash flows. If impairment is indicated, the asset or asset group is written down to its fair value. Assets to be disposed are reported at the lower of the carrying value or the fair value less cost to sell. The discounted cash flows calculation uses various assumptions and estimates regarding future revenue - which is a factor of the future subscriber base and the average revenue per subscriber, expenses, terminal values of the assets and the cash flows projections over the estimated remaining useful life of the asset or asset group. These forecasts are subject to changes in external factors including adverse regulatory and legal rulings. We carried out an impairment review of our long lived assets in 2007. Based on our review, the expected future cash flows directly associated with the asset groups exceed their carrying amount and hence there is no impairment of long lived assets in 2007. Impairment of Held to Maturity Securities. We have invested Rs. 1,000 million in 8.75% cumulative preference shares of ITI Limited (“ITI”) and Rs 2,500 million in bonds issued by Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation (“MKVDC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Government of Maharashtra. The ITI share purchase agreement includes a provision for a letter of comfort from Department of Telecommunication (Government of India) to MTNL endorsing the investment and also provides us a right to set off amounts receivable in respect of principal outstanding from the dues payable to ITI, in connection with our purchase of exchanges and cable supplies. As of September 30, 2005, ITI had not redeemed the first tranche amounting to Rs. 200 million as per the repayment schedule and ITI had requested an extension on the redemption dates. However, we have not accepted ITI’s request and have looked to the DOT’s letter of comfort and requested settlement of the first repayment tranche of Rs. 200 million. As of September 30, 2006, ITI has not redeemed both the first and second tranches amounting to Rs. 200 million each as per the original repayment schedule. As of September 30, 2007, another tranche of Rs. 200 million became due from ITI. Management has evaluated the investment in ITI for impairment, on the basis that the first, second and third tranches for repayment have not been settled by ITI. Management has evaluated the financial condition and business outlook of ITI including the new purchase orders received by ITI for supply of GSM equipment from BSNL and us. We currently have accounts payable to ITI of Rs.706 million as at March 31, 2007 which, pursuant to the share agreement, we can legally settle against the repayments owing under the cumulative preference shares. In addition, we have the intent and ability to retain the debt security for a period of time sufficient to allow for anticipated recovery in value. 49 Table of Contents Based on this evaluation and specifically considering that the share purchase agreement includes a provision for a letter of comfort from Department of Telecommunication (Government of India) to us endorsing the investment and also provides us a right to set off amounts receivable in respect of principal outstanding from the dues payable to ITI, management has concluded that the debt security is not impaired. The MKVDC bonds have a coupon rate of 11.5% per annum and are redeemable at the end of the 10th year from the date of allotment (May 31, 2002). The repayment of these bonds is guaranteed by the Government of Mahrashtra. Based on our assessment of carrying value of investment in MKVDC bonds we believe that there is no impairment of investments as of March 31, 2007. Revenue We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from local, domestic long distance and international calls that originate on our network and from telephone rentals. We realize revenue in the form of installation charges, ongoing subscription/rental charges and usage charges. We also derive revenues from providing Internet and broadband services, our Intelligent Network services, public call office or public payphone services, interconnection with basic service, long distance service and cellular operators, narrow-band ISDN services, leased-line services, telex services, GSM cellular services in Delhi and Mumbai, those value-added services for which we charge a fee and, since December 2001, CDMA-based mobile and fixed wireless services in Delhi and in Mumbai. We only began receiving interconnect payments in respect of incoming international long distance calls since April 1, 2002, when several interconnect agreements, including our agreement with VSNL, took effect. In fiscal 2003, revenue sharing with BSNL and other operators for incoming and outgoing domestic long distance or subscriber trunk dialing calls was done on the basis of the TRAI’s Interconnect Usage Charges Regulation 2003 (1 of 2003) implemented from May 1, 2003 and modified by Interconnect Usage Charges Regulation 2003 (2 of 2003) effective February 1, 2004. For April 2003, these charges were accounted per the earlier arrangement. Call revenue is generally a function of the number of access lines in service, the volume of traffic carried and the level of call charges. Telephone and other rental revenue is a function of the number of access lines in service and the rental tariffs we charge. Public call office revenue is driven by the number of our public call offices, the volume of traffic carried and the level of call charges. Interconnect revenue is a function of the contractual and legal/regulatory rates prescribed for interconnection and the level of call volumes originating from sources that pay interconnect fees. For the year ended March 31, 2007, there has been a decrease in the number of fixed lines and CDMA lines that, coupled with a decrease in the related tariffs, has resulted in decreased revenues for these services. However, there has been an increase in revenue due to increased GSM lines and broadband connections, despite a drastic decrease in related tariffs. The May 1999 tariff order provided for a “rebalancing” of tariffs in stages to reduce subsidization of local calls by long distance users. The first stage of tariff rebalancing in May 1999 reduced the charge per pulse from Rs.1.40 to Rs.1.20, decreased local call pulse durations from five to three minutes (effectively increasing local call charges), increased domestic and international call pulse durations (effectively reducing domestic long distance and international call charges) and increased monthly line rental rates for subscribers that generate more than 200 pulses per month from Rs.190 to Rs.250. The second stage of tariff rebalancing further reduced domestic long distance and international call charges effective October 1, 2000 and increased monthly line rental rates to Rs.250 for all subscribers effective February 1, 2001. Domestic long distance call charges were further reduced significantly with effect from January 14, 2002, March 7, 2003, May 1, 2004, and October 2, 2004, and international long distance call charges were subject to further significant reduction with effect from July 20, 2002, October 21, 2003 and April 10, 2004. Primarily as a result of these tariff reductions, excluding termination revenues, our average revenue per access line in service has been declining. Any further tariff rebalancing may result in lower call charges, particularly for domestic long distance and international calls, which might be offset by an increase in rental tariffs. We are not able to assess at this time the full long-term impact that the tariff order will have on subscriber calling patterns or on revenues. As competition intensifies, we expect call charges will likely decline and, to the extent that call volumes do not increase as a result of lower call charges, excluding termination revenues, our revenue per access line in service may continue to decline. 50 Table of Contents We expect that call revenue and revenue from public call offices may decline as a percentage of total revenue as demand for our other products and services, particularly our GSM cellular services, increases and if rental charges increase as a result of further tariff rebalancing. Cost of Revenues Our operating costs include staff costs, license fees and network utilization charges, depreciation expenses, maintenance costs and commissions paid to public call office franchise operators. Staff costs. In general, employees receive a base salary and salary-related housing and other allowances, productivity-based incentive payments and certain benefits, including a pension/gratuity plan and medical benefits for themselves and certain members of their immediate families. The decrease in our staff costs was primarily due to VRS in previous years and also a decrease in retirement benefit charges on account of an increase in the discount rate used to value our post retirement obligations to employees. This is in line with the general increase in interest rates in the economy over the same period. In fiscal 2000, substantially all of our non-executive employees originally employed by the DOT decided to terminate their services with the DOT and accept employment with us effective November 1998. Under the option given to them for pension benefits, most of our absorbed employees have opted for retaining pension benefits in accordance with the Central government pension rules. Some other employees have opted for retirement rules, which are applicable to our directly recruited employees, and opted to draw pro rata monthly pension until their absorption. Accordingly, with effect from November 1, 1998 we started accruing for pension and gratuity for these employees. In August/September 2002, the DOT indicated that the government would pay for the pension benefits of the government employees absorbed by us who opted for either the Central government scheme of pension or for the pro rata pension scheme for the period served with the DOT. However, the terms of such payments are in the process of finalization. Once these terms are finalized and the payments are made to the DOT for the period of employment of these employees with us, we expect that our liability for post retirement obligations would be limited to monthly contributions on the basis of the rules to be prescribed by the government of India. Presently, in the absence of any further movement from the Government, we are discharging all such liabilities. Approximately 98% of our executive employees have accepted absorption into our company and are now our direct employees. These employees are entitled to certain pension and gratuity benefits from the government of India. We have finalized a new compensation structure for our senior executive employees. The new structure provides for higher salaries and benefits for our senior executive employees upon exercise of their option for MTNL absorption. As a public sector enterprise, we abide by general DOT and Department of Public Sector Enterprises personnel policies that, among other things, limit our ability to reduce employment levels and control the amount of salaries and other remuneration that we may pay to our employees. Our employee productivity measured by access lines in service per employee has been increasing steadily but remains significantly lower than the Asian and global averages. During the year ended March 31, 2005, MTNL implemented a Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) for executive as well as non-executive employees. Under the scheme, the eligible employees were given an option to voluntarily take retirement from service and make their choice within the specified period of time. The scheme provided for ex gratia payments to eligible employees opting for voluntary retirement based on the respective employee’s salary and term of employment. As of March 31, 2007, a total of 3,947 employees retired under this scheme. License fees and network utilization charges. Under our previous arrangement with the DOT, the license fee for providing basic services was fixed at Rs.900 per access line in service. This arrangement expired on March 31, 2000. In the absence of any new arrangement with the DOT, we continued to pay license fees during fiscal 2001 on the same terms as our previous arrangement. On April 9, 2001, the DOT communicated that the annual license fee will be revised and shall be payable at 12% of adjusted gross revenue from basic telephone service effective from August 1, 1999, as applicable to private operators from that date. On September 5, 2001, the DOT amended its position and indicated that the date from which the revised license fees will be payable will be notified later. 51 Table of Contents Accordingly, the Company paid license fees based on the earlier arrangement up to the year ended March 31, 2001 and on the revised basis from April 1, 2001 onwards. Subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2004 in a meeting with DOT it has been agreed that the license fee is payable at 12% of the adjusted gross revenue with effect from August 1, 1999 and the charges for the same have been accrued in the year ended March 31, 2004. Further, license fee has been revised at 10% of Adjusted Gross Revenue with effect from April 1, 2004. Under our previous arrangement with BSNL, we paid network utilization charges to BSNL as a fixed percentage of the amount of usage and other charges billed to our customers for our services. Our network utilization arrangement with BSNL expired on March 31, 2001. To date no agreement for networking charges has been entered into which determines the basis of revenue sharing for incoming or outgoing domestic long distance or subscriber trunk dialing calls through interconnection with BSNL’s network. In absence of the same, for fiscal 2003, the interconnection charges on domestic long distance calls have been accrued on the basis of the rates that were payable by other basic service operators in the country. We are in the process of finalizing a new agreement with BSNL. In fiscal 2004, revenue sharing with BSNL and other operators for incoming and outgoing domestic long distance or subscriber trunk dialing calls was done on the basis of TRAI’s Interconnect Usage Charges Regulation 2003 (1 of 2003) implemented from May 1, 2003 and modified by Interconnect Usage Charges Regulation 2003 (2 of 2003) effective February 1, 2004. For April 2003, these charges were accounted per the earlier arrangement. In fiscal 2005, TRAI’s IUC regulation (1 of 2003) as modified by IUC regulation 2003 (1 of 2004) was applicable till January 2005, for February and March 2005, regulation as modified by amendment (1 of 2005) was applicable. In fiscal 2006, TRAI’s IUC Regulation (1 of 2006) dated February 28, 2006 was applicable through March 31, 2007. In fiscal 2007, TRAI has issued ADC Regulation (2 of 2007) dated March 21, 2007 and implemented from April 1, 2007. In this amended regulation ADC on percentage revenue share was reduced to 0.75% from existing 1.50% of AGR. ADC on outgoing international calls has been reduced to zero from an existing level of Rs. 0.80 per minute and on incoming international calls reduced to Rs. 1.00 per minute from existing Rs. 1.60 per minute. In fiscal 2007, TRAI issued the Telecommunication Tariff (Forty fourth amendment) Order, 2007 regarding National Roaming Charges and applicable from February 15, 2007. The salient features are as follows: 1. Entry Fee (One time charge) Nil 2. Monthly Access Charge for Regional or National Roaming Nil 3. Composite charge including Public Switched Telecom Network (PSTN) charges for incoming call while Regional or National Roaming Ceiling Rs. 1.75 per minute 4. Composite charge including Public Switched Telecom Network (PSTN) charges for outgoing local call while Regional or National Roaming Ceiling Rs. 1.40 per minute 5. Composite charge including Public Switched Telecom Network (PSTN) charges for Outgoing local distance (inter circle) call while Regional or National Roaming Ceiling Rs. 2.40 per minute 6. Surcharge while Regional or National Roaming Nil 7. Incoming Short Message Services (SMS) while roaming Nil In fiscal 2007, TRAI issued the Telecommunication Tariff (Forty fifth amendment) Order, 2007 regarding unsolicited commercial communication and applicable from June 5, 2007. The salient features are as follows: ITEM TARIFF 1. Unsolicited commercial communication made from Basic Services (other than ISDN) Rs.500/- for each unsolicited commercial communication referred against item 1. 2. Unsolicited commercial communication made from Cellular Mobile Telecom Service (CMTS) Rs.500/- for each unsolicited commercial communication referred against item 2. 52 Table of Contents In fiscal 2007, TRAI issued the Regulation on Port Charges (1 of 2007) and applicable from April 1, 2007. The salient features are as under: Coverage Charges for ‘Ports’ (other than the Port Charges for Internet, which are specified in Schedule VI of the Telecommunications Tariff Order 1999) No. of ‘Ports’ ‘Port’ Charges (in Rs.) per annum 1 to 16 PCMs N*39,000 17 to 32 PCMs 6,24,000 + (N-16)*22,500 33 to 64 PCMs 9,84,000 + (N-32)*14,500 65 to 128 PCMs 14,48,000 + (N-64)*11,500 ‘Port’ Charges covering all switches 129 to 256 PCMs 21,84,000 + (N-128)*10,500 Note - N refers to the number of ‘Ports’ within the capacity ranges under the column ‘No. of Ports’.” Since Regulation 1 of 2007 of TRAI in relation to payment of port charges is contrary to the judgment of the Hon’ble TDSAT, dated April 27, 2005 and March 3, 2005, BSNL has filed Appeal no. 4/2007 against these Regulations before the Hon’ble TDSAT. MTNL has also impleaded into this case. Until the end of fiscal 2002, all outgoing international long distance calls originating from our network were subject to interconnection fees payable to BSNL, and we received no revenue from incoming international long distance calls into our network. We paid interconnect fees to BSNL in respect of outgoing international long distance calls pursuant to the network utilization arrangement with BSNL until March 31, 2001 and for fiscal 2002 on the basis of the rates that were payable by other basic service operators in the country. Beginning April 1, 2002, we recorded incoming and outgoing international long distance traffic pursuant to interconnect agreements we have signed with several international carriers, most importantly, VSNL. As a result of these agreements, we no longer make payments to BSNL in respect of international long distance traffic. In addition, our agreements with the international carriers provide for income in respect of incoming calls, in addition to payments in respect of outgoing calls originating from our networks. For more information on license fees and network utilization charges, please see “Information on the Company—Business Overview.” Inflation Inflation in India, as measured by the Indian consumer price index, was 5.5% in fiscal 2004, 5.01% in 2005, and 4.6% in 2006. Energy price spikes may affect this in the current year. We do not believe that inflation in India has had a material impact on our results of operations in recent years. However, the TRAI has been granted the authority to determine tariffs, and we are therefore restricted in our ability to increase tariffs to compensate for inflation. As a result, inflation could adversely affect our results of operations. See “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Tariffs and Other Charges.” Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements There are a number of new accounting standards that have been issued that will affect our information presented in accordance with US GAAP. For a description of these recent pronouncements, please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this form. 53 Table of Contents Other Matters See “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Legal Proceedings” and Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements for information on our contingent liabilities. We are selectively targeting expansion opportunities outside India where we can leverage our expertise and relationships. We have investments in Nepal and Mauritius and are currently examining several other opportunities. We invested Rs.233.45 million up to fiscal 2004 and Rs.56.70 million in fiscal 2007 on the Nepal venture, and in respect of the Mauritius operations, Rs.425.03 million up to fiscal 2006 and Rs.170.09 million in fiscal 2007. We have obtained a letter of intent from the Department of Telecommunication to provide international long distance service and we intend to deploy these services as soon as a license is issued. We cannot determine at this time what impact entry into these markets will have on our revenues and results of operations. Segment Information We have identified basic and cellular as the two operating segments of MTNL. Basic services segment consists of voice, data through local calls, domestic long distance and international long distance calls on fixed line services in the cities of Delhi and Mumbai in India. Further, it includes revenues from Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, based cellular services and internet access services. Cellular consists of providing cellular services in cities of Delhi and Mumbai using Global System for Mobile communications, or GSM, technology. During the year ended March 31, 2005, we had not considered cellular services to be a reportable segment since it did not meet the thresholds of significance. However as the cellular services have met the thresholds of significance during the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2007, we have disclosed the segment information for the year ended March 31, 2007 as well as for the prior years. During the previous year we started operations in Mauritius. However, as the operations are insignificant as compared to our overall business, the same have not been considered for separate segment disclosure. During the years ended March 31, 2006 and 2007, no single customer has contributed for revenue in excess of 10% of total revenue. The amounts reviewed by the CODM are based on internal accounting policies of the Company which are different from US GAAP. Results of Operations The following table sets forth selected income statement data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the period indicated, derived from financial statements that are prepared in accordance with US GAAP, included on pages F-1 to F-33 of this annual report. Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2005 2006 2007 Revenues 100% 100% 100% Cost of revenues (excluding depreciation shown separately below) (62.8%) (69.1%) (71.5%) Selling, general and administrative expenses (excluding depreciation shown separately below) (18.5%) (17.2%) (19.2%) Depreciation (15.4%) (17.1%) (18.7%) Postretirement medical benefit liability written back - - 12.7% Excess liabilities written back 2.6% 1.7% 1.8% Income / (loss) from operations 5.9% (1.7%) (5.2%) Interest and other income, net 5.3% 5.1% 17.4% Income before income taxes and share of losses from affiliate 11.2% 3.4% 22.5% Income taxes (4.2%) (1.0%) 2.4% Equity in (losses) of affiliate (0.1%) (0.1%) 0.0% 54 Table of Contents Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2005 2006 2007 Net income 6.9% 2.3% 24.9% 55 Table of Contents Comparison of Year Ended March 31, 2007 with Year Ended March 31, 2006 Revenues: Basic services: Our revenues from basic services decreased by 7.84% from Rs.41,219 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.37,989 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in fixed line call revenue, including public call office (“PCO”) revenue, by 2.36% from Rs.22,637 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.22,103 million for the year ended March 31, 2007 and a decrease in interconnect revenue by 14.98% from Rs.2,809 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.2,388 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. However, revenue from telephone and other rentals and broadband services increased 4.90% from Rs.15,338 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.16,320 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. Call revenue has gone down as a result of a decrease in the average number of connections from 4,127,530 connections during the year ended March 31, 2006 to 3,723,104 connections during the year ended March 31, 2007. There was also a net decrease of 3,901 million units in billed Metered Call Units (“MCU”), from 29,006 million units during the year ended March 31, 2006 to 25,105 million units during the year ended March 31, 2007. Further, the call tariff rates were reduced during the current year due to increased competition in the market, resulting in a fall in average revenue per connection per month from Rs.805 during the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.770 during the current year, a decrease of Rs.35 per connection per month. Cellular services: Our revenues from cellular services increased by 37.38% from Rs. 5,449 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.7,486 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of 600,918 in the average number of cellular subscribers from 1,411,425 as of March 31, 2006 to 2,012,343 as of March 31, 2007. Due to the increase in subscribers, our income from roaming and prepaid trump also increased by Rs.1,143 million from Rs.3,847 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.4,990 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. Cost of Revenues: Basic services: Our cost of revenues has decreased from Rs.29,595 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.28,910 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decrease is due to a decrease in interconnection charges by 35% from Rs 12,173 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.7,973 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decrease is offset by an increase in license fees by 6,834% from Rs.62 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.4,237 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. Interconnect charges have decreased during the current year primerely because an amount of Rs.3,809 million had been accounted for as network charges in the previous year. This amount was on account of a settlement by DOT of the disputes with BSNL related to the networking charges for the period of 2000-2005. The increase in the licence fee is primerely on account of the fact that in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 we had reversed excess licence fee Rs.3408 million accounted for years upto March 31, 2005, which reduced the charges for previous year. Cellular services: Our cost of revenues has increased by Rs.914 million from Rs.2,673 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.3,587 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase is due to (i) an increase in interconnect charges by Rs.708 million from Rs.1,343 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.2,051 million for the year ended March 31, 2007, and (ii) an increase in license fees by Rs.327 million from Rs.491 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.818 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. However, staff costs decreased by Rs.22 million from Rs.219 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.197 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. As regards license fees payable as a percentage of the Adjusted Gross Revenues (“AGR”), the increase is basically due to a 37.38% increase in cellular revenue as compared to the prior year. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) Basic services: Our selling, general and administrative expenses went up by 26% from Rs.6,529 million during the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.8,224 million during the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase is 56 Table of Contents mainly on account of an increase in the charges accrued for provisions required against potential bad debt. During the current year the changes for provision for doubtful debtors was Rs.1023 millions. Advertisement costs increased by 19% from Rs.333 million during the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.396 million during the year ended March 31, 2007. Cellular Services: Our selling, general and administrative expenses went down by Rs.629 million from Rs.1,158 million during the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.529 million during the year ended March 31, 2007. The decrease is primarily on account of an decrease in charges accrued for provisions required against potential bad debt by Rs.600 million from Rs.780 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.180 million for the year ended March 31, 2007and decrease in advertisement expenses by Rs.31 million from Rs.82 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.51 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. Income from Operations Basic Services: Our loss from operations has decreased by Rs.1,076 million from a loss from operations of Rs.1,426 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to a loss from operations of Rs.350 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decrease in operating loss is mainly attributable to medical benefits written back amounting to Rs. 5,794 million and the same is offset by (i) a 7.84% decrease in revenue from Rs.41,219 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.37,989 million for the year ended March 31, 2007, (ii) an increase in the selling, general and administrative expenses from Rs.6,529 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.8,224 million for the year ended March 31, 2007, and (iii) an increase in depreciation by Rs.384 million from Rs.7,454 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.7,838 million for the year ended March 31, 2007 Cellular Services: Our income from operations has increased by 180% from Rs.963 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs. 2,692 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase is mainly attributable to a 37.38% increase in revenue from Rs.5,449 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.7,486 million for the year ended March 31, 2007, and a decrease in our selling, general and administrative expenses by 54% from Rs.1,158 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.529 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. However, it is offset to some extent due to increases in the cost of revenues from Rs.2,673 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.3,587 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. Interest and Other Income: During the year ended March 31, 2007, our interest and other income has increased by 231% from Rs.2,388 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.7,894 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase is attributable to an 702% increase in interest and other income from Rs.787million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.6,310 million for the year ended March 31, 2007, offset by a 1.06% decrease in interest from bank deposits from Rs.1,601 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.1,584 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The increase in interest and other income was mainly due to the recognition of interest on income tax for the year ended March 31, 2006 amounting to Rs. Nil million as compare to the Rs.5,216 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. Income Taxes: Income tax expense decreased from Rs.437 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.(1,073) million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The decline is attributable to a decrease in the current tax expense from Rs.1,253 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.(1,171) million for the year ended March 31, 2007. Deferred tax expense also increased from Rs.(816) million for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.98 million for the year ended March 31, 2007. The current tax expense has decreased mainly due to adjustments arising from completion of tax assessment of previous years. The deferred tax assets have decreased largely on account of lower charges in the financial statements in respect of provision for post retirement medical benefits. The deferred tax liability has decareased due to reduction in the amount of excess depreciation allowance on tax in the current year as compared to earlier year. 57 Table of Contents Comparison of Year Ended March 31, 2006 with Year Ended March 31, 2005 Revenues: Basic services: Our revenues from basic services decreased by 13% from Rs. 47,269 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.41,219 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in fixed line call revenue, including public call office (PCO) revenue, by 12 % from Rs 26,024 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.22,637 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 and a decrease in interconnect revenue by 41% from Rs. 4,729 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.2,809 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 and a 1.5% decrease in telephone and other rentals and broadband revenue from Rs.15,557 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.15,338 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. Call revenue has gone down as a result of decrease in average number of connections from 4,372,862 connections during the year ended March 31, 2005 to 4,127,530 connections during the year ended March 31, 2006. There was also net decrease of 2,855 million units in billed Metered Call Units (“MCU”), from 30,087 million units during the year ended March 31, 2005 to 29,006 million units during the year ended March 31, 2006. Further, the call tariff rates were reduced during the current year due to increased competition in the market, resulting in a fall in average revenue per connection per month from Rs.819 during the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.805 during the current year, a decrease of Rs.14 per connection per month. The interconnect revenue has declined due to reduction of Access deficit charges (ADC) w.e.f February 2005, ADC regime has changed and ADC payments to MTNL were discontinued in the year 2005-06. Cellular services: Our revenues from cellular services increased by 89% from Rs. 2,874 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.5,449 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of 790,302 in the average number of cellular subscribers from 621,123 as of March 31, 2005 to 1,411,425 as of March 31, 2006. Due to increase in subscribers, our income from roaming and prepaid trump also increases by Rs.1,986 million from Rs.1,861 million for the year ended March 2005 to Rs.3,847 million for the year ended March 2006. Cost of Revenues: Basic services: Our cost of revenues has decreased from Rs.30,128 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.29,595 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decrease is due to a decrease in license fees by 100% from Rs.4,665 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.62 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 and a decrease in the staff cost by 7% from Rs.14,806 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.13,828 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decrease is offset by an increase in interconnect charges by 66% from Rs.7,321 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.12,173 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The interconnect charges have increased during the current year mainly on account of the settlement reached with BSNL for the periods up to and including March 31, 2005 In the earlier years we had disputed the interconnect charges claimed by BSNL on account of being not adequately supported . However, during the year ended March 31, 2006, the DOT had constituted a three member committee from its Telecommunications Department comprised of the Member (Production), Member (Finance), and Deputy Director General (Business Solutions) to resolve the various disputes relating to networking charges. Based on the recommendations of the Committee vide their minutes dated January 2006, DOT has settled the disputes on the networking charges for the period from 2000 to 2005. Accordingly, an amount of Rs.3,809 million has been accounted as networking charges in the statement of income for the year ended March 31, 2006. The license fee as discussed earlier is a factor of the Adjusted Gross Revenues (“AGR”) which in turn is affected by the revenues for the year and the interconnect charges which are allowed as one of the deductions from the revenue to arrive at AGR. Thus the decrease in license fee is directly correlated to the increased interconnect charges which we have accrued during the year as part of the settlement with BSNL and DOT. An 7% decrease in the revenue for the year has decreased the AGR by 24%. Further, during the year we have received an NLD license from the DOT. One of the prerequisites for obtaining an NLD license is the absence of any dues towards DOT on account of License fees for one’s existing services. We have also received a provisional assessment letter from DOT confirming that all amounts demanded as of and for the periods up to March 31, 2005 have been received from MTNL In view of the above we have reversed excess license fees accrued in years up to March 2005.,amounting to Rs 3,408 which accounts for over 90% of the variation in the License fees. 58 Table of Contents The decrease in staff cost by 7% is a direct result of the VRS schemes offered by the Company. Approximately 2,000 employees had opted for VRS during the year ended March 31, 2005 resulting in a charge of Rs 1,381 million. A further 1000 employees have opted for VRS during the current year. The charge for the current year is Rs 666 million thus leading to a 5% downward variation as compared to last year Also during the current year approximately 950 employees have retired due to normal age retirement. All these factors have resulted in a lower wage/salary outgo and also entailed lower charges for the current year viz-a-viz last year. The expense for medical benefits has reduced from Rs 2605 million to Rs 2,043 million for the current year accounting for 3% of the total variation in the staff cost Cellular services: Our cost of revenues has increased by Rs.1,280 million from Rs.1,393 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.2,673 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase is due to a increase in interconnect charges by Rs.798 million from Rs.545 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.1,343 million for the year ended March 31, 2006, increase in license fees by Rs.182 million from Rs.309 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.491 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 and increase in the staff cost by Rs 148 million from Rs.71 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.219 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. As regards license fees payable as a percentage of the Adjusted Gross Revenues (“AGR”), the increase is basically due to 100% increase in cellular revenue as compared to the last year. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) Basic services: Our selling, general and administrative expenses have gone down by 25% from Rs.8,715 million during the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.6,529 million during the year ended March 31, 2006. The decrease is mainly on account of decrease in the charge accrued for provision required against potential bad debt. This accounts for 22% of the overall the 25% fall in SG&A expenses. Company reassessed its provision against doubtful debtors and concluded that we had been proactive in our doubtful debtor’s provisioning in the previous years .During the current year the Company has written back Rs 248 million of this provision as against a charge of Rs 1,137million last year. The fall in the staff cost from Rs 6,405 million to Rs 5,792 million accounts further for a 7% fall in the SG&A. expenses. Cellular Services: Our selling, general and administrative expenses have gone up by Rs 712 million from Rs.446 million during the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.1,158 million during the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase is primarily on account of a increase in charge accrued for provision required against potential bad debt by Rs 589 million from Rs 191 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.780 million for the year ended March 31, 2006, increase in the staff cost by Rs 42 million from Rs.37 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.79 million for the year ended March 31, 2006 and increase in advertisement expenses by Rs.52 million from Rs.30 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.82 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. Income from Operations Basic Services: Our income from operations has fallen by Rs.3,985 from income from operation of Rs.2,559 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to loss from operation of Rs.1,426 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decrease is mainly attributable to a 12% decrease in revenue from Rs.47,269 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.41,219 million for the year ended March 31, 2006, increase in the cost of revenues from Rs.30,128 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.29,595 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. There has also been decrease in the selling, general and administrative expenses by 25% from Rs.8,715 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.6,529 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. As against the 12% reduction in revenues, our selling, general and administrative expenses have gone down by 25%. Further excess liability written back has declined by Rs. 470 million from Rs.1,291 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs. 821 for the year ended March 31, 2006. Cellular Services: Our income from operations has increased by 88% from Rs.510 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.963 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The increase is mainly attributable to 99% increase in revenue from Rs.2,874 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.5,449 million for the year ended March 31, 2006, offset by increase in the cost of revenues from Rs.1,393 million for the year ended March 31, 59 Table of Contents 2005 to Rs.2,673 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. As against the 99% increase in revenues, our selling, general and administrative expenses have gone up by 159% from Rs.446 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.1,158 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. Interest and Other Income: During the year ended March 31, 2006, our interest and other income has decreased by 11% from Rs.2,670 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.2,388 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decrease is attributable to a 41% decrease in interest and other income from Rs.1,329 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.787 million for the year ended March 31, 2006, offset by 19% increase in interest from bank deposit from Rs.1,341 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.1,601 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decrease in interest and other income was mainly due to an recognition of interest on income tax for the year ended march 31, 2005 amounting to Rs. 665 million as compare to the nil for the year ended March 31, 2006. Income Taxes: The income tax expense has reduced by 79% from Rs.2124 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.437 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The decline is attributable to a decrease in the current tax expense by 171% from Rs.3,400 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.1,253 million for the year ended March 31, 2006, further deferred tax income decreased by 88% from Rs.1,276 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.861 million for the year ended March 31, 2006. The current tax expense has fallen due to a 60% reduction in the taxable income (as per the applicable tax laws) from Rs.9,278 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.3,722 million for the year ended March 31, 2006, which resulted in an equivalent 37% reduction in the expense. Further applicable tax rate in India which has decreased resulted in a 8% decrease in the current tax expense. The decrease in the deferred tax income during the current year is driven by a decrease in deductible temporary differences by 125% as compared to the previous year, which has resulted in an equivalent 125% reduction in deferred tax income, and further by a decrease in the applicable tax rate in India which has resulted in a 8% decrease in the deferred tax income. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES A summary of our cash flows appears below: (in millions of Rs.) Year Ended March 31 2005 2006 2007 Net cash provided by the operating activities 15,006 6,006 9,672 Net cash used in investing activities (12,706 ) (7,975 ) (6,780 ) Net cash from financing activities (4,630 ) (3,951 ) (2,873 ) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2,330 ) (5,920 ) 19 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 9,891 7,561 1,641 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 7,561 1,641 1,660 We have historically met our working capital and capital expenditure requirements principally from cash flows generated from operations. We have also from time to time undertaken external borrowings. As of March 31, 2007, we had no borrowings. We expect to meet our planned capital requirements for the next two years primarily from cash flow generated from operations, together with existing cash balances and supplemented by market borrowings, whenever required. At March 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of Rs.1.66 billion and liquid short-term investments in bank deposits of Rs.17.10 billion. We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately Rs.6,17 billion in fiscal 2008. We do not expect to have any liquidity problem in regard of possible adverse results in our pending litigations, as we would expect to discharge any obligations from cash on hand. We have significant amounts due from related parties, which if not settled, would significantly impact cash flow from operations. We believe that existing cash and cash equivalents and funds generated from operations will be sufficient to meet these requirements. However, we may significantly alter our proposed capital expenditures plans and accordingly, may 60 Table of Contents require additional financing to meet our requirements. In either case, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available at all or, if available, that such financing will be obtained on terms favorable to us or that any additional financing will not be dilutive to our shareholders. Operating Activities Net cash flow from operating activities was Rs.6.01 billion in fiscal 2006 and Rs 9.67 billion in fiscal 2007. The increase in cash generation from operating activities during the current year is primarily attributable to an increase in net income from Rs.1.07 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.11.30 billion for the year ended March 31, 2007, an increase in depreciation from Rs.8.00 billion as at March 31, 2006 to Rs.8.52 billion as at March 31, 2007, and an increase in deferred taxes from Rs.(.82) billion as at March 31, 2006 to Rs.0.10 billion as at March 31, 2007. Net cash flow from operating activities was Rs.15.01 billion in fiscal 2005 and Rs 6.01 billion in fiscal 2006. The decrease in cash generation from operating activities during the year ended March 31, 2006 was primarily attributable to a decrease in net income from Rs.3.41 billion for the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.1.07 billion for the year ended March 31, 2006, a decrease in the amounts due to related parties from Rs.11.33 billion as at March 31, 2005 to Rs.6.09 billion as at March 31, 2006, and an increase in the other receivables from Rs.4.05 as at March 31, 2005 to Rs.8.8 billion as at March 31, 2006. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased from Rs.7.98 billion for fiscal 2006 to Rs.6.78 billion for fiscal 2007. This is mostly due to a withdrawal of the investment made in short term bank deposits of Rs.1.92 billion during the year ended March 31, 2007. However, Rs.1.29 billion was deposited during the year ended March 31, 2006. Offsetting the above amount to some extent was an increase in the purchase of fixed assets from Rs.6.72 billion during the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.8.70 billion during the year ended March 31, 2007. Net cash used in investing activities decreased from Rs.12.71 billion for fiscal 2005 to Rs.7.98 billion for fiscal 2006. This was mostly due to a decrease in the investment made in short term bank deposits from Rs.2.08 billion during the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.1.29 billion during the year ended March 31, 2006 and a decrease in the purchase of fixed assets from Rs.10.71 billion during the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.6.72 billion during the year ended March 31, 2006. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities has decreased from Rs.3.95 billion for fiscal 2006 to Rs.2.87 billion for fiscal 2007. This decrease is on account of a decrease in the amounts of cash dividends paid from Rs.3.95 billion during the year ended March 31, 2006 to Rs.2.87 billion during the year ended March 31, 2007. Net cash used in financing activities has decreased from Rs.4.63 billion for fiscal 2005 to Rs.3.95 billion for fiscal 2006. This decrease is on account of a decrease in the amounts of cash dividends paid from Rs.4.63 billion during the year ended March 31, 2005 to Rs.3.95 billion during the year ended March 31, 2006. Contractual Obligations The following table shows our contractual payment obligations for the specified future periods: (in millions of Rs.) Payments due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Purchase obligations (capital commitments) 6,166 6,166 — — — Pension and other post-retirement obligations 23,435 1,284 3,236 3,929 14,986 Total 29,601 7,450 3,236 3,929 14,986 MTNL is obligated to pay license fees and spectrum charges to DOT in accordance with conditions governing license fees for Basic Telephone Service and Cellular Telephone Service under the Revenue Sharing 61 Table of Contents Regime. The specified percentage for license fees on fixed line services and cellular services was 10% of the Adjusted Gross Revenue (“AGR”) for each of the years ended March 31, 2005, 2007 and 2007. We do not expect to have any difficulty repaying such amounts, and may do so entirely from cash flow generated from operations. As of March 31, 2007, we had no debt outstanding and no credit facilities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2007, we were not a financial guarantor of obligations of any unconsolidated entity, and we were not a party to any similar off-balance sheet obligation or arrangement. Capital Expenditure See “Property, Plant and Equipment – Network Modernization” for a discussion of our capital requirements for capital expenditures. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We did not incur research and development expenditures in the last three fiscal years. TREND INFORMATION For a discussion of other important trends affecting us, see “—Operating Results—Overview” above. Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT The government of India controls us and has the power to elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of almost all actions requiring approval of our board of directors or shareholders. The Department of Telecommunications, as the representative of our majority shareholder, the government of India, also has the authority to exercise the special powers granted to the President of India under our articles of association. These include the right to appoint our Chairman-cum-Managing Director and to issue directives with respect to our business. See “Additional Information- Memorandum and Articles of Association-Powers of the President of India”. Directors The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the administration and management of our affairs, except for certain matters that are reserved by our articles of association for the approval of the President of India. Our articles of association provide for a board of not less than four and not more than 18 directors. The directors are appointed by the government of India. The President of India is empowered by Article 66A of our articles of association to appoint one-third of the total number of our directors sitting at any time for an indefinite term and to designate our Chairman-cum-Managing Director. Our remaining directors are also appointed by the Govt. of India and non-official part time directors serve for three-year terms. As per the provisions of the Indian Companies Act, one-third of these set term directors retire each year at our annual general meeting. We currently have six directors, three of whom are our most senior officers. We refer to these directors as “full-time directors”. Our Executive Director, Mumbai and our Executive Director, Delhi are normally ex-officio members of the Board. Two of our directors are officers of the DOT. Finally, there is one director who is neither our employee nor employee of the DOT. We refer to these directors as “part-time” directors”. All of our directors were appointed by the DOT. Six board seats are currently vacant i.e. two ex-officio director and three part-time directors. 62 Table of Contents The business address of each of the directors is our registered office. The names of our current directors, their ages and their positions as at the date of this report appear below: Name Age Position R.S.P. Sinha 56 Director(1) / Chairman-cum-Managing Director Kuldeep Singh 53 Director(1) / Director (Technical) Anita Soni (Ms.) 54 Director(1) / Director (Finance) M. Sahu 53 Joint Secretary (3), Department of Telecommunications A.S. Bhola 50 Director (3) / Dy. Director General, Department of Telecommunications S. Balasubramaniam 64 Director(4) (1) Full-time director; (2) Director ex-officio; (3) Government director; (4) part-time directors Other Principal Executive Officers The business address of each of our principal executive officers is our registered office. In addition to those officers who are members of the board of directors, our principal executive officers and their ages and positions as at the date of this report are as follows: Name Age Position K.C. Gupta 58 Executive Director, Operation S.R. Sayal 44 Company Secretary Mr. R.S.P. Sinha has been our Chairman and Managing Director since November 2003 and a member of our board as Director (Fin) since April, 2002. Prior to joining us, he was Director (Finance) of Videsh Sanchar Nigam Ltd. He is a Fellow Member of the Institute of Cost & Works Accountants of India. Mr. Sinha has 23 years experience in senior financial positions both in the private sector and the public sector, including 11 years experience as full-time director of the board of Public Sector Undertakings. Mr. Sinha worked as Director (Finance) on the board of VSNL from January 1999 to February 2002 and Director (Finance), MTNL from April, 2002 to October 2003. Mr. Kuldeep Singh has been our Director (Technical) and a member of our Board since December 9, 2004. He is an Engineering graduate with master in business administration. Mr. Singh joined the Indian telecom services in 1979. He has more than 32 years experience in the field of computers and telecommunications. Before being appointed as Director (T) on the board of MTNL, he worked as GM in MTNL for more than four years. Prior to this, he worked in DOT, Overseas Communication Services and National Informatic Centre in various responsible positions. Ms. Anita Soni has been our Director (Finance) since April 26, 2005. Mrs. Soni joined Indian Postal Telecommunications finance services of the Government of India in 1977. She has Master of Arts (Economics Honours) from Punjab University. She has more than 29 years experience as a senior finance Executive in Indian P & T (Finance & Accounts) Service. Before joining MTNL as Director (Finance), she held positions in DOT, MTNL, and BSNL and has experience in all aspects of telecom finance. She is on the panel of experts of the International Telecom Union (ITU), and has participated in various ITU projects. Mr. M. Sahu has been a member of our Board since September 16, 2005, and is presently working as Joint Secretary in the Department of Telecommunications. After obtaining the degree of Bachelor of Electrical Engineering in 1977, Mr. Sahu has done Post-Graduation Degree in Development Administration from the University of Birmingham, U.K. in 1993-94 with focus on Industrial Development and re-location of Industries. Prior to this, Shi Sahu worked in UNIDO as Project Director. He was working as Joint Secretary in Ministry of Environment & Forests and worked in different departments in Government of Gujarat in various capacities. He has more than 24 years of experience in Civil Service and 15 years practical experience in industries including that of more than 6 years in Government of India. 63 Table of Contents Mr. A.S. Bhola has been a member of our Board since June 2007 and is presently working as DDG (FEB), Dept. of Telecom. He joined the Indian Post and Telecom Accounts and Finance Service in 1980. He has worked in various capacities in the Department of Telecom, Department of Posts, Department of Central Excise and Customs, and in the public sector telecom companies. He is presently Dy. Director General (Finance and Budget) in the Department of Telecom. Prior to this, he had worked as General Manager (Finance) in BSNL. He holds a degree in English literature from Kurukshetra University and an MBA (Finance) from the IGNOU. Dr. S. Balasubramanian has been a member of MTNL Board since November 25, 2005 as Non Official part time Director. He holds an M.A. (Economics) degree, M. Phil (Economics) degree, Ph.D. (Eco.) and DDS from University of Madras. He served as professor of Economics in Madras University for 29 years as well as Head of Dept of Economics for 16 years in Presidency College, Chennai. He has published several publications in Socio-Economics thoughts, etc. He has also served as a member of Tamilnadu Public Service Commission. Mr. K.C. Gupta has been our Executive Director, Operation, since December 2004. Mr. Gupta joined the Indian Telecommunication Service in 1972 and has held various posts in different parts of India including service with Telecommunications Consultants India Limited from 1996-2000. Mr. Gupta holds an engineering degree from Delhi College of Engineering, Delhi. Mr. S.R. Sayal has been our Company Secretary since October 2006, having previously served as Dy. Company Secretary since August 1997. Prior to joining us as Dy. Company Secretary in 1997, Mr. Sayal worked for National Fertilizers Ltd. (Government of India Enterprises) and other private sector companies. Mr. Sayal is a Fellow Member of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. Mr. Sayal has a Bachelor of Commerce (Hons.) Master of Arts (English) degree from Delhi University and a Bachelor of Laws degree from Agra University. AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee of the board of directors reviews, acts on and reports to the board of directors with respect to the various auditing and accounting matters, including the recommendation of our independent auditors, the scope of the annual audits, fees to be paid to the independent auditors, the performance of our independent auditors and our accounting practices. Effective June 4, 2007, the Board reconstituted the Audit Committee, now comprised of Dr. Balasubramanian, Chairman, Mr. Sahu and Mr. A.S. Bhola. Mr. Sahu and Mr. A.S. Bhola are Government of India employees and are not considered independent under Indian standards but under US standards we avail ourselves of an exemption from certain independence standards (See Item 16D to this Report). We are following up regularly with the DOT for early appointment of additional directors on the board so that we may reconstitute our Audit Committee to include only persons who are not MTNL or government employees and qualify as independent under Indian standards. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS The total remuneration and benefits in kind paid by us to all of our directors and executive officers as a group in fiscal 2007 was approximately Rs. 4.01 million. There are no outstanding loans, advances or guarantees of any amounts to our directors or principal officers. There have been no transactions effected by us during the current or immediately preceding fiscal year, and there were no transactions effected during an earlier financial year that remain in any respect outstanding or unperformed, between us and any of our directors or principal officers which were unusual in their nature or conditions or significant to our business. EMPLOYEES Employees At March 31, 2007, we had 48,529 employees, of whom 6,755 were executive and 41,774 were non-executive employees. We seek to improve employee productivity through continuing education and training and by 64 Table of Contents emphasizing the importance of quality of service and subscriber satisfaction. We have placed a special emphasis on retraining our workforce to meet the demands of modernizing our network and improving customer satisfaction. In general, employees receive a base salary and salary-related housing and other allowances, productivity based incentive payments and certain benefits, including a pension/gratuity plan, medical benefits for themselves and certain members of their immediate families and post-retirement medical benefits for retired employees. The decrease in our staff costs was primarily due to a Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) in previous years and a decrease in retirement benefit charges on account of an increase in the discount rate used to value our post retirement obligations to employees. This is in line with the general increase in interest rates in the economy over the same period. In fiscal 2000, substantially all of our non-executive employees originally employed by the DOT decided to terminate their services with the DOT and accept employment with us effective November 1998. Under the option given to them for pension benefits, most of our absorbed employees have opted for retaining pension benefits in accordance with the Central government pension rules and some other employees have opted for retirement rules which as applicable to our directly recruited employees, and opt to draw pro rata until their absorption. Accordingly, with effect from November 1, 1998 we started accruing for pension and gratuity for these employees. In August/September 2002, the DOT indicated that the government would pay for the pension benefits of the government employees absorbed by us who opted for either the Central government scheme of pension or for the pro rata pension scheme for the period served with the DOT. However, the terms of such payments are in the process of finalization. Once these terms are finalized and the payments are made to DOT for the period of employment of these employees with us, we expect that our liability for post retirement obligations would be limited to monthly contributions on the basis of the rules to be prescribed by the government of India. Presently, in the absence of any further movement from the Government, we are discharging all such liabilities. Approximately 98% of our executive employees have accepted absorption by us, and are now our direct employees. These employees are entitled to certain pension and gratuity benefits from the government of India. We have finalized a new compensation structure for our senior executive employees. The new structure provides for higher salaries and benefits for our senior executive employees upon exercise of their option for MTNL absorption. As a public sector enterprise, we abide by general DOT and Department of Public Sector Enterprises personnel policies, which, among other things, limit our ability to reduce employment levels and control the amount of salaries and other remuneration that we may pay to our employees. Our employee productivity measured by access lines in service per employee has been increasing steadily but remains significantly lower than the Asian and global averages. During the year ended March 31, 2005, we implemented a Voluntary Retirement Scheme for our executive as well as non-executive employees. Under the scheme, the eligible employees were given an option to voluntarily take retirement from service and make their choice within the specified period of time. The scheme provided for ex gratia payments to eligible employees opting for voluntary retirement based on the respective employee’s salary and term of employment. As of March 31, 2007, a total of 3,947 employees had retired under this scheme. The mandatory retirement age for all employees is 60 years of age. Upon retirement, employees (who have opted for government pension) and their dependents are entitled to a pension under a defined benefit plan. The pension amount is based on the employee’s years of service and salary level upon retirement and, in a reduced amount, is transferable to dependents upon the employee’s death. We also provide post-retirement health care benefits to retired employees and their dependents. However, we have discontinued the existing scheme of medical benefit for the retired employees and their dependents at a date subsequent to March 31, 2007. During the year the amount provided in the accounts up to March 31, 2006 has been written back. Further, no provision for post retirement benefit has been made in the accounts. See details under “Critical Account Policies and Estimates” above. Almost all of our non-executive employees are members of local unions organized in each of Delhi and Mumbai. Our executive employees seconded from DOT are members of national officers’ associations, which act 65 Table of Contents as an informal consultative mechanism for conveying management staff’s views regarding personnel policies to our senior executives. TRAINING In order to deal with the new realities of competitive marketplace, we have launched a massive training effort to train our workforce. Training design has been so modified to tilt the balance of training from knowledge to skill and attitude, which are key to succeed in a customer-driven marketplace. During financial year 2006-07, a total number of 7,816 employees were trained as against the MoU targets of 7,000 employees. In addition to this, highly specialized training was given abroad to the 29 MTNL officers. In addition to already existing District Telecom Training Centres (DTTC), we have created state-of-the-art training facility in the form of Center for Excellence in Telecom Technology and Management (CETTM) at Powai, Mumbai. Apart from catering to our in-house training needs, CETTM also provides telecom training to other organizations. An agreement has been reached among us, TCIL and the Ministry of External Affairs providing for training on telecom technology to the candidates from foreign countries in the CETTM premises. SHARE OWNERSHIP None of our directors or connected persons or our principal executive officers owned any of our equity shares as of the date of this report. On January 7, 2000, the Indian government offered to sell up to 14 million equity shares, representing approximately 2.2% of our outstanding equity shares, to our employees at a discount as compensation in connection with the restructuring of DOT. Because the terms were not viewed as favorable, none of our employees accepted this offer before it expired on December 31, 2000. In a recent communication the DOT has indicated for closure of the issue but we have again taken up the matter with the government. Our employees have demanded that the shares allocated to them, at Rs.46 per share, but the DOT has not yet responded. Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS The following table sets forth information about the shareholders holding 5% or more of our outstanding equity shares as of March 31, 2007, according to our register of shareholders: Name of Owner Number of Shares Percentage Government of India (1) 354,372,740 56.25% Life Insurance Corporation of India (2) 110,265,246 17.50% The Bank of New York (3) 32,053,188 5.09% (1) The equity shares owned by the government of India are registered in the name of the President of India or his nominees in our register of shareholders. (2) Life Insurance Corporation of India is also controlled by the government of India. (3) These equity shares are held by The Bank of New York as custodian for the holders of our ADSs. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS We have a number of distinct relationships with the government of India as outlined below: 66 Table of Contents Government of India as Shareholder The government of India currently owns 56.25% of our outstanding equity shares. Accordingly, the government of India will continue to have the ability to control us, elect all of our directors and determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring the approval of our board of directors or shareholders. The government of India has announced its intention to divest its shareholdings in a number of government companies by offering significant equity stakes in those companies to strategic partners through a competitive bidding process. To date, there have been no announcements that the government of India plans to reduce its shareholding in us through this process. The DOT acts as representative of our majority shareholder, the government of India. The DOT also has the authority to exercise the special powers granted to the President of India under our articles of association. These include the right to appoint our Chairman-cum-Managing Director and to issue directives with respect to our business. See “Additional Information— Memorandum and Articles of Association—Powers of the President of India.” Government of India as Regulator Our business is subject to comprehensive regulation by the Ministry of Communications through the Telecom Commission and the DOT pursuant to the provisions of the Telegraph Act and the terms of the licenses under which we operate. While the Telegraph Act sets the legal framework for regulation of the telecommunications sector, much of our supervision and regulation is implemented more informally through the general administrative powers of the DOT, including those reserved to the DOT under our license, and of other government of India agencies. In March 1997, an autonomous body, the TRAI, was established with quasi-judicial powers to regulate telecommunications services in India. See “Information on the Company— Telecommunications Regulation in India—The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India.” We operate all of our services under licenses granted by the DOT. The licenses identify the services that we are permitted to provide, which we believe covers all of the services that we currently do provide. A license for any additional service requires the approval of the DOT. The DOT retains the right, however, after giving us appropriate notice, to modify the terms and conditions of our license at any time if, in its opinion, it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunications sector. The DOT may also terminate our license before its scheduled expiration upon our breach of any of its terms. Under the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, the Telecom TRAI has been granted the authority to determine tariffs. So long as the government of India’s shareholding in us equals or exceeds 51%, we are deemed to be an Indian government company under the Companies Act and are subject to regulations generally applicable to public sector enterprises in India. These regulations concern personnel matters, including appointment of key management personnel and the hiring, dismissal and compensation of employees, as well as procurement, capital expenditures and the generation of funds through the issuance of securities. For example, all appointments to our board of directors must first be recommended by the Public Enterprises Selection Board, a government agency, and its recommendations are reviewed by the government of India, although until recently all appointments to our board have been recommended only by the government of India. All appointments to our board of directors are also approved by our shareholders. Disputes between government of India enterprises (such as us) and government of India departments generally must be referred to the Committee on Disputes of the government of India for mediation before either party may bring a claim in a court of law. A single government of India ministry or department is designated as the primary supervisor of each public sector enterprise and the DOT has been designated as our primary supervisor. Our activities are also subject to review by India’s Parliament, and the DOT must submit an annual report to Parliament regarding our business activities. The government of India plays an important role in the preparation of our financial statements. Under Indian regulations, as a government of India company, our annual accounts are audited by statutory auditors and branch auditors which are independent chartered accountants appointed each year by the government of India at the direction of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. See “Additional Information—Memorandum and 67 Table of Contents Articles of Association—Audit and Annual Report.” In accordance with the government of India’s practice with respect to government of India companies, auditors have generally not been permitted to serve as our branch or statutory auditors for more than three consecutive years. In addition, the Comptroller and Auditor General conducts an independent review of our financial statements that are audited by the statutory and branch auditors. The annual report submitted to the Parliament includes a copy of our audit report and any comments upon or supplements to the audit report made by the Comptroller and Auditor General. The Government of India as Customer The government of India purchases our services on a commercial basis, and government entities, in the aggregate, constitute the single largest user of our services. The DOT sets the tariffs for these services, which are the same as our tariffs to our other customers. However, certain limited categories of high-level government of India officials may not have their telephone connections disconnected for non-payment of bills. Our Financing of the Department of Telecommunications As a department of the government of India, the DOT cannot raise funds through external borrowings from non-government of India entities, and has historically depended on us to raise funds on its behalf for use in its telecommunications business. By restructuring us as a corporation, the DOT was able to create a company, which could raise debt in the capital markets to be used to fund its telecommunications operations. The Indian government guaranteed these borrowings and we on-lent the proceeds of the borrowings on terms substantially similar to the terms of the original loan. As a result of the corporatization of the Department of Telecom Services into BSNL in October 2000, we no longer borrow funds on behalf of the DOT. All external borrowings that had made on behalf of the DOT/BSNL have been repaid by us. Related Party Transactions In addition to the transactions and circumstances described above in this Item 7, we enter into numerous business relationships with entities that have varying degrees of government control, as well as with the government itself and subdivisions of the government. For example, as discussed elsewhere in this report, our principal interconnect arrangements are with BSNL. For more information on our relationships and transactions with the government of India and its subdivisions and entities controlled by the government, see [Note 4 and Note 19] to our consolidated financial statements, which appear elsewhere in this report. Item 8. Financial Information CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION See “Item 18. Financial Statements” and pages F-1 through F-33. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES Recent Developments Dividends . Under Indian law, a company pays dividends upon a recommendation by its board of directors and approval of a majority of the shareholders at the annual general meeting of shareholders held within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Shareholders have the right to decrease but not increase the dividend amount recommended by the board of directors. Dividends may be paid out of company profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared after transfer to the reserves of a percentage of our profits for that year of not less than 2.5%. The Companies Act further provides that, in the event of inadequacy or absence of profits in any year, a dividend may be declared for that year out of our accumulated profits, subject to certain limitations. In February 2007, our board of directors recommended the payment of interim divided of Rs. 3.00 per share, amounting to a total of Rs. 1890 million to record holders of equity shares in February 2007. 68 Table of Contents In July 2007, our board of directors recommended the payment of a dividend of Rs.4.0 per share, amounting to a total of Rs.2520 million, including interim dividend of Rs. 3/- per share, to record holders of equity shares on September 19, 2007. This dividend is to be approved by our shareholders at our annual general meeting to be held on September 28, 2007. We must pay a “dividend distribution tax” at the rate of 12.50% (plus a surcharge of 10% and an add-on tax at the rate of 2% of the interim dividend) and dividend distribution tax on final dividend of Rs.1.00 per share at the rate of 15% (plus a surcharge of 10% and an add-on tax at the rate of 3%). Currently, there is no Indian tax payable by shareholders in respect of dividends received. For a description of the tax consequences of dividends paid to our shareholders, see “Additional Information—Taxation—Indian Taxation—Taxation of Distributions.” Item 9. The Offer and Listing MARKET PRICE INFORMATION Equity Shares Our outstanding equity shares are listed on several Indian stock exchanges and were first quoted on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai on May 13, 1993. Our equity shares are also traded on the National Stock Exchange in India. The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices and average daily trading volume on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai for our equity shares for the periods indicated: Share price (Rs.) Calendar period High Low Average daily trading volume 2004 First Quarter 157.15 121.25 1,426,035 Second Quarter 166.45 92.90 23,242,184 Third Quarter 142.00 117.80 15,787,985 Fourth Quarter 165.10 120.00 11,633,506 2005 First Quarter 170.05 110.25 13,424,191 Second Quarter 127.00 110.00 5,379,978 Third Quarter 142.40 116.20 9,053,279 Fourth Quarter 150.35 108.00 7,890,609 2006 First Quarter 221.80 165.50 1,576,895 Second Quarter 157.00 157.50 475,677 Third Quarter 157.50 144.85 456,811 Fourth Quarter 167.70 152.00 609,810 2007 April 2007 168.00 141.90 15,950,119 May 2007 159.00 145.55 11,661,918 June 2007 169.40 148.60 14,733,267 July 2007 171.00 147.60 11,273,564 August 2007 149.65 129.00 8,020,192 On September 21, 2007, the closing price of our equity shares on The Bombay Stock Exchange was Rs.155.65. Our global depositary receipts were listed on the London Stock Exchange and quoted on SEAQ International until we terminated our global depositary receipt program following the completion of our exchange offer in which we exchanged global depositary receipts of tendering holders for New York Stock Exchange-listed American Depositary Shares, or ADSs. The commencement of our ADS program and the termination of our global depositary receipt program both occurred in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2001. 69 Table of Contents The table below shows the high and low closing prices on the New York Stock Exchange for our ADSs for the period indicated. ADS price Calendar period High US$ Low US$ 2003 6.25 3.33 2004 9.27 5.40 2005 8.44 5.41 2006 First Quarter 8.80 6.65 Second Quarter 9.75 8.04 Third Quarter 6.97 5.61 Fourth Quarter 7.18 5.70 2007 January 7.80 7.52 February 7.62 5.90 March 6.80 5.65 April 7.75 6.38 May 7.71 7.03 June 8.21 7.45 July 8.29 7.10 August 7.61 5.90 September (through September 21, 2007) 7.80 7.06 On September 21, 2007, the closing price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange was US$ 7.85 per ADS. Our NYSE symbol is MTE. THE INDIAN SECURITIES MARKET The information in this section has been extracted from publicly available documents from various sources, including officially prepared materials from the Securities and Exchange Board of India, The Bombay Stock Exchange, and the National Stock Exchange, and has not been prepared or independently verified by us or any of our affiliates or advisers. The Indian Securities Market India has a long history of organized securities trading. In 1875, the first stock exchange was established in Mumbai. The Securities and Exchange Board of India India’s stock exchanges are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, and the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules regulate the recognition of stock exchanges, the qualifications for membership and the manner in which contracts are entered into and enforced between members. The main objective of the Securities and Exchange Board of India, which was established by the government of India in February 1992, is to promote the development of and regulate the Indian securities markets and protect the interests of investors. The Securities and Exchange Board of India may make or amend an exchange’s by-laws and rules, overrule an exchange’s governing body and withdraw recognition of an exchange. In the past, the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s regulation of market practices was limited. The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 granted the Securities and Exchange Board of India powers to regulate the business of Indian securities markets, including stock exchanges and other financial intermediaries, promote and monitor self-regulatory organizations, prohibit fraudulent and unfair trade practices and insider trading, and regulate substantial acquisitions of shares and takeovers of companies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has also issued: 70 Table of Contents · guidelines concerning minimum disclosure requirements by public companies; · rules and regulations concerning: · investor protection, insider trading, substantial acquisitions of shares and takeovers of companies, buybacks of securities, employee stock option schemes, foreign capital market issues, derivative instruments and sweat equity; and · debenture trustees, depositaries, development financial institutions, venture capital funds, foreign institutional investors, stockbrokers, underwriters, merchant bankers, portfolio managers, mutual funds, credit rating agencies and other capital market participants; and · rules and regulations regarding the prohibition of fraudulent and unfair trade practices relating to the securities market. The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act has been amended to include derivatives of securities and instruments of collective investment in the definition of “securities.” This has been done with a view to develop and regulate the markets for derivatives. Trading in index-linked futures currently takes place on the National Stock Exchange and The Stock Exchange, Mumbai. Trading in individual stock futures that have been notified by Securities and Exchange Board of India is now permitted. The Securities and Exchange Board of India also set up a committee for the review of Indian securities laws, which has proposed a draft Securities Bill. The draft Securities Bill, if accepted, will result in a substantial revision in the laws relating to securities in India. Public Company Regulation Under the Companies Act, a public offering of securities in India must generally be made by means of a prospectus, which must contain information specified in the Companies Act and be filed with the Registrar of Companies having jurisdiction over the place where a company’s registered office is situated. A company’s directors and promoters may be subject to civil and criminal liability for misstatements in a prospectus. The Companies Act also sets forth procedures for the acceptance of subscriptions and the allotment of securities among subscribers and establishes maximum commission rates for the sale of securities. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has issued detailed guidelines concerning disclosures by public companies and investor protection. Prior to the repeal of certain rules in mid-1992, the Controller of Capital Issues of the government of India regulated the prices at which companies could issue securities. The Securities and Exchange Board of India guidelines now permit existing listed companies to price freely their issues of securities, though the pricing of initial public offerings is subject to certain restrictions. All new issues governed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India guidelines are conditional upon a minimum subscription requirement of 90.0% of the securities being issued. Promoters of companies are required to retain a certain minimum certified holding of equity share capital, which is subject to a lock-in for three years. Further, existing shareholders of the company, who are not promoters, are subject to a lock-in of one year from the date of the initial public offering. No issuance of bonus shares is permitted within 12 months of any public issue or rights issue. Public limited companies are required under the Companies Act to prepare, file with the Registrar of Companies and circulate to their shareholders audited annual accounts, which comply with the Companies Act’s disclosure requirements and regulations governing their manner of presentation. In addition, a listed company is subject to continuing disclosure requirements pursuant to the terms of its listing agreement with the relevant stock exchange. Listed companies are now required to publish quarterly unaudited financial results that are reviewed by an outside auditor in accordance with a prescribed standard for non-audit reviews. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has recently notified amendments to the listing agreement tightening the continual disclosure standards by corporations and corporate governance measures to be adopted by listed companies. 71 Table of Contents Listing The listing of securities on a recognized Indian stock exchange is regulated by the Securities Contract Rules. Under the standard terms of stock exchange listing agreements, the governing body of each stock exchange is empowered to suspend trading of or dealing in a listed security for breach of the company’s obligations under such agreement, subject to the company receiving prior notice of the intent of the exchange. In the event that a suspension of a company’s securities continues for a period in excess of three months, the company may appeal to the Securities and Exchange Board of India to set aside the suspension. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has the power to veto stock exchange decisions in this regard. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has issued the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Securities) Guidelines, 2003, which sets forth the procedure for delisting of securities in the following circumstances: · voluntary delisting sought by the promoters of a company; · any acquisition of shares of the company or a scheme or arrangement, by whatever name referred to, consequent to which the public shareholding falls below the minimum limit specified in the listing conditions or listing agreement that may result in delisting of securities; · promoters of the company who voluntary seek to delist their securities from all or some of the stock exchanges; · cases where a person in control of management is seeking to consolidate his holdings in a company, in a manner which would result in the public shareholding in the company falling below the limit specified in the listing conditions or in a listing agreement that may have the effect of the company being delisted; and · compulsory delisting by stock exchanges (e.g., upon failure by a company to pay required listing fees). Indian Stock Exchanges There are 24 stock exchanges in India. Most of the stock exchanges have their own governing board for self-regulation. It is estimated that the two major exchanges, The Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange, account for more than 90.0% of the market capitalization of listed Indian companies. The Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange account for a majority of trading volumes of securities in India. The Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange together hold a dominant position among the stock exchanges in terms of number of listed companies, market capitalization and trading activity. There are generally no restrictions on price movements of any security on any given day. However, to restrict abnormal price volatility, the Securities and Exchange Board of India has instructed stock exchanges to apply daily circuit breakers, which do not allow transactions at prices different by more than 8.0% of the previous closing price for shares quoted at Rs.20 or more. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has instructed stock exchanges to relax the circuit breakers by a further 8.0% after half an hour from the time prices reach the limit of 8.0%. It has allowed stock exchanges to fix circuit breakers for shares quoted at prices up to Rs.20. There is no circuit filter applicable for trading in shares on rolling settlement and for which derivative instruments are available. There is, however, a dummy circuit filter applicable in case of a 20% movement on share prices in order to prevent accidental trades. There is a 20% circuit filter applicable for trading in shares on rolling settlement and for which derivative instruments are not available. There is also an index based circuit filter based on the BSE SENSEX and NSE S&P CNX Fifty indices wherein trading in the entire market is halted for a specific period depending upon whether the index fluctuates in excess of 10%, 15% or 20%. Further, margin requirements are also imposed by 72 Table of Contents stock exchanges that are required to be paid at rates fixed by the stock exchanges. The Indian stock exchanges can also exercise the power to suspend trading during periods of market volatility. A settlement cycle is an account period for the securities traded on a stock exchange. At the end of the period, obligations are settled, i.e., buyers of securities pay for and receive securities while sellers give securities and receive payment for them. The obligations are settled on a net basis, i.e., if some security is both purchased and sold in the same settlement cycle then only the net quantity of securities is delivered or received and the net amount of funds paid or received. Typically, the length of the settlement period is two business days. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has specified certain shares to be settled by rolling settlement. Under rolling settlement, the length of the settlement period is one day. All stocks trading under the rolling settlement system are settled on a T+2-day basis; trades executed on a Monday are typically settled on the following Monday. Stocks that are not under the rolling settlement system follow the account period settlement system. In December 1993, the Securities and Exchange Board of India announced a ban on forward trading on the Ahmedabad, Calcutta and Delhi stock exchanges and The Stock Exchange, Mumbai in order to contain excessive speculation, protect the interests of investors and regulate the stock market. All transactions thereafter were required to be for payment and delivery. In October 1995, the Securities and Exchange Board of India announced the introduction of a modified forward trading system to enable buyers and sellers to defer the settlement of their obligations to the following settlement cycle. This system began on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai in January 1996 for select shares. The new system segregates trades into different categories, namely, carry-forward, delivery and jobbing, with different identification numbers of the various trades. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has appointed a committee to recommend modalities for a carry forward mechanism under the rolling settlement. Once the revised carry forward mechanism is approved, rolling settlement will be applicable also for shares in the carry forward list. In May 2001, the Securities and Exchange Board of India announced that all shares included in the new system will trade only in the compulsory rolling settlement system from July 2, 2001. All outstanding deferred positions under the earlier system would have to be compulsorily liquidated by September 3, 2001. In 1992, the Securities and Exchange Board of India promulgated rules and regulations that prescribe conditions for registration of stockbrokers. A stockbroker may not buy, sell or deal in securities except pursuant to a certificate granted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India. The regulations also prescribe a broker code of conduct and rules for the fair treatment of investors by brokers, the procedures for registration, the payment of registration fees, maintenance of appropriate books and records and the right of inspection of the books of the stockbrokers by the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Broker liability in cases of default extends to suspension or cancellation of the broker’s registration. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has issued registration certificates to over 9,000 stockbrokers who are members of various stock exchanges in India. Before these regulations, stockbrokers were required to be registered only with the stock exchanges of which they were members. The Securities and Exchange Board of India regulations introduced the concept of dual registration of stockbrokers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India and the stock exchanges, and brought the brokers under regulation for the first time. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has enforcement powers over secondary market participants for violation of any provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, or the rules and regulations made thereunder. The Securities and Exchange Board of India may also take enforcement actions for violations of the Securities Contract Act or rules made thereunder and rules, regulations and by-laws of the stock exchanges. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has also announced SEBI Regularization Scheme, 2002, under which parties who are guilty of violating the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997, will be granted general amnesty on the payment of a fine for each default during the prescribed period of time. 73 Table of Contents Internet-Based Securities Trading and Services The Securities and Exchange Board of India has recently allowed Internet-based securities trading under the existing legal framework. The regulations seek to allow the Internet to be used as an order routing system through stock brokers registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India on behalf of clients for executing trades on a recognized stock exchange in India. Stock brokers interested in providing this service are required to apply for permission to the respective stock exchange and also have to comply with certain minimum conditions stipulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Given the limited life of these new regulations to date, it is possible that these regulations will continue to evolve in the future. Takeover Code Disclosure and mandatory bid obligations under Indian law are governed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 (Takeover Code) which prescribes certain thresholds or trigger points that give rise to these obligations. The Takeover Code is under constant review by the Securities and Exchange Board of India and was most recently amended in December 2002. The most important features of the Takeover Code, as amended, are as follows: · Any acquirer (meaning a person who, directly or indirectly, acquires or agrees to acquire shares or voting rights in a company, either by himself or with any person acting in concert) who acquires shares or voting rights that would entitle him to more than 5.0% of the shares or voting rights in a company is required to disclose the aggregate of his shareholding or voting rights in that company to the company (which in turn is required to disclose the same to each of the stock exchanges on which the company’s shares are listed) within two working days of (a) the receipt of allotment information; or (b) the acquisition of shares or voting rights, as the case may be. · A person has to make a three-stage disclosure when he acquires 5%, 10% and 14% of the shares and/or voting rights in a company, of his holdings to that company (which in turn is required to disclose the same to each of the stock exchanges on which the company’s shares are listed). · Promoters or persons in control of a company are also required to make annual disclosure of their holdings in the same manner. · An acquirer cannot acquire shares or voting rights which (taken together with existing shares or voting rights, if any, held by him or by persons acting in concert with him) would entitle such acquirer to exercise 15.0% or more of the voting rights in a company, unless such acquirer makes a public announcement offering to acquire a further 20.0% of the shares of the company. · An acquirer who, together with persons acting in concert with him, holds between 15.0% and 75.0% of the shares cannot acquire additional shares or voting rights that would entitle him to exercise a further 5.0% of the voting rights in the period of a financial year unless such acquirer makes a public announcement offering to acquire a further 20.0% of the shares of the company. · Any further acquisition of shares or voting rights by an acquirer who holds 75.0% of the shares or voting rights in a company triggers the same public announcement requirements. · In addition, regardless of whether there has been any acquisition of shares or voting rights in a company, an acquirer acting in concert cannot directly or indirectly acquire control over a company (for example, by way of acquiring the right to appoint a majority of the directors or to control the management or the policy decisions of the company) unless such acquirer makes a public announcement offering to acquire a minimum of 20.0% of the shares of the company The Takeover Code sets out the contents of the required public announcements as well as the minimum offer price. 74 Table of Contents The Takeover Code permits conditional offers and provides specific guidelines for the gradual acquisition of shares or voting rights. Specific obligations of the acquirer and the board of directors of the target company in the offer process have also been set out. Acquirers making a public offer are also required to deposit in an escrow account a percentage of the total consideration which amount will be forfeited in the event that the acquirer does not fulfill his obligations. In addition, the Takeover Code introduces the “chain principle” by which the acquisition of a company will obligate the acquirer to make a public offer to the shareholders of each subsidiary company which is listed. The general requirements to make such a public announcement do not, however, apply entirely to bailout takeovers when a promoter (i.e., a person or persons in control of the company, persons named in any offer document as promoters and certain specified corporate bodies and individuals) is taking over a financially weak company but not a “sick industrial company” pursuant to a rehabilitation scheme approved by a public financial institution or a scheduled bank. A “financially weak company” is a company which has at the end of the previous financial year accumulated losses, which have resulted in erosion of more than 50.0% but less than 100.0% of the total sum of its paid up capital and free reserves at the end of the previous financial year. A “sick industrial company” is a company registered for more than five years which has at the end of any financial year accumulated losses equal to or exceeding its entire net worth. The Takeover Code does not apply to certain specified acquisitions including the acquisition of shares (1) by allotment in a public and rights issue, (2) pursuant to an underwriting agreement, (3) by registered stockbrokers in the ordinary course of business on behalf of clients, (4) in unlisted companies, (5) pursuant to a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation or (6) pursuant to a scheme under Section 18 of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985. Certain exemptions have also been provided for acquisition of shares pursuant to exercise of a put option or call option in the subsequent stage of a disinvestment, subject to the prior existence of such put option or call option having been disclosed in the open offer document. The Takeover Code does not apply to acquisitions in the ordinary course of business by public financial institutions either on their own account or as a pledge. In addition, the Takeover Code does not apply to the acquisition of ADSs so long as they are not converted into equity shares. In case of creeping acquisitions/consolidations of holdings, the ceiling has been reduced from 10% to 5% of equity shareholding of the target company with effect from October 1, 2002. No exemptions are available to inter se transfers among promoters, in the event that the transfers take place at 25% premium to the market price of equity shares of the company. Change in control is, however, allowed in the event a special resolution is passed (in addition to the filing of the postal ballots). Insider Trading The Securities and Exchange Board of India has recently adopted the new Insider Trading Regulations which require significantly greater disclosure by the company with regard to the trading of the company’s shares. Under the Insider Trading Regulations, an insider is as a person who is or was connected with the company or is deemed to have been connected with the company, and who is reasonably expected to have access, by virtue of such connection, to unpublished price sensitive information in respect of securities of the company, or who has received or has had access to such unpublished price sensitive information. Further, under the Regulations, no insider may, either on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, deal in securities of a company listed on a stock exchange on the basis of any unpublished price sensitive information, or communicate any unpublished price sensitive information to any person, with or without his request for such information, except as required in the ordinary course of business or under any law, or counsel or procure any other person to deal in securities of any company on the basis of unpublished price sensitive information. In accordance with Regulations, the company has promulgated an internal code of conduct which is applicable to the directors and designated employees of the company for dealings in shares of the company by the directors and designated employees of the company, and with regard to access to unpublished price sensitive information that the directors or the designated employees might have. The Regulations also require the company to follow strict information disclosure requirements on a need to know basis. 75 Table of Contents Depositories In August 1996, the Indian Parliament enacted the Depositaries Act, 1996 which provides a legal framework for the establishment of depositaries to record ownership details and effectuate transfers in book entry form. The Securities and Exchange Board of India passed the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 which provides for the formation of such depositaries, the registration of participants as well as the rights and obligations of the depositaries, participants and the issuers. Every depositary has to register with the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Pursuant to the Depositories Act, the National Securities Depository Limited was established by the Unit Trust of India, the Industrial Development Bank of India and the National Stock Exchange in 1996 to provide electronic depositary facilities for trading in equity and debt securities. The National Securities Depository Limited, which commenced operations in November 1996, was the first depositary in India. Another depositary, the Central Depository Services (India) Limited, established by The Stock Exchange, Mumbai has commenced operations since July 15, 1999. The depositary system has significantly improved the operations of the Indian securities markets. Item 10. Additional Information MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Set forth below is certain information relating to our share capital, including certain provisions of our articles of association and the Companies Act. The information is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to our articles of association. General Our authorized share capital is Rs.8,000,000,000, divided into 800,000,000 equity shares with a par value of Rs.10 each. At the date of this report, 630,000,000 shares were issued and fully paid. Our equity shares are in registered form. The shares are the only class of share capital currently outstanding. There are no convertible debentures or warrants currently in existence. Dividends Our shareholders, acting at the annual general meeting, may declare a dividend upon the recommendation of the board of directors. The amount of the dividend declared may not exceed the amount recommended by the board of directors, although a lesser amount may be declared. Dividends are distributed and paid within 30 days of the declaration by the shareholders. Our board of directors also is authorized under our articles of association to declare and pay interim dividends to shareholders. If any dividend remains unclaimed at the end of 30 days, the amount of the dividend will be transferred to a separate account belonging to us. If it still remains unclaimed at the end of seven years, this amount will be transferred to government of India and cannot be claimed by the relevant shareholder. Dividends are payable only in cash to registered holders on a record date fixed prior to the relevant annual general meeting. Dividends may be paid only out of our profits for the relevant year, after transfer to our reserves of a percentage of our profits for that year of not less than 2.5%. The Companies Act further provides that, in the event of inadequacy or absence of profits in any year, a dividend may be declared for that year out of our accumulated profits, subject to certain limitations. A dividend tax of approximately 14.025% (inclusive of Education surcharge) of distributed profit for a relevant period is payable by us. As of April 1, 2007, the dividend tax was increased to 16.955%. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the dividend per equity share and per global depositary receipt and the total amount of dividends paid on the equity shares, both exclusive of dividend tax. 76 Table of Contents For fiscal year Dividend per equity share Dividend per ADS/GDR Total amount of dividends paid (Rs.) (Rs.) (millions of Rupees) 2007 4.0 8.0 2,520 2006 4.0 8.0 2,520 2005 4.5 9.0 2,835 2004 4.5 9.0 2,835 2003 4.5 9.0 2,835 The Ministry of Finance has adopted non-binding guidelines regarding the payment of dividends by “public sector undertakings (PSUs) “ which apply to us. According to the guidelines, profit-making public sector undertakings which are commercial enterprises should generally declare a minimum dividend each fiscal year of 20% of the higher of paid-up share capital as of year-end or profit after tax for the year. In the case of telecommunications, oil, petroleum, chemical and other infrastructure industries, profit making PSUs should declare a minimum dividend for each fiscal year of 30% of profit after tax for the year or 30% on equity, whichever is higher. Future dividends will depend upon our revenues, cash flow, financial condition and other factors. As an owner of ADSs, holders will be entitled to receive dividends payable in respect of the equity shares represented by our ADSs. The equity shares represented by our ADSs rank equally with our existing shares. At present, we have equity shares issued in India. Free Distribution of Equity Shares In addition to permitting dividends to be paid out of current or retained earnings, the Companies Act permits us to distribute bonus shares to shareholders. Upon any distribution of bonus shares, an amount equal to the face value of the bonus shares to be distributed is transferred from the general reserve or share premium account to share capital. The bonus shares must be distributed to shareholders in proportion to the number of equity shares owned by them. Preemptive Rights and Issue of Additional Shares Subject to the approval of the President of India, we may by ordinary resolution increase our share capital by the issue of new shares or create a new class of shares. In addition, the rights attached to the shares of any class may be varied with the consent of not less than three-fourths of the issued shares of that class. The Companies Act gives shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares in proportion to their existing shareholdings unless otherwise determined by a special resolution to that effect adopted at a general meeting of shareholders. Such a resolution was adopted with respect to the equity shares offered by us in the global depositary receipt offering at an extraordinary general meeting held on November 19, 1997. We must offer shares to existing shareholders by notice specifying the number of shares offered and the date, within 30 days from the date of offer, by which the offer must be accepted. The board of directors is entitled to distribute the shares in respect of which preemptive rights have not been exercised in the manner that it deems most beneficial to us. General Meetings of Shareholders We are required to convene an annual general meeting of our shareholders within six months after the end of each financial year (subject to extensions which may be granted by the competent authorities) and may convene an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders when necessary or at the request of a shareholder or shareholders holding not less than 10% of our paid-up capital on the date of the request. The annual general meeting of the shareholders is generally convened by the Company Secretary in accordance with a resolution of the board of directors. Written notice setting out the agenda of the meeting must be given at least 21 days (excluding the day of service) prior to the date of the general meeting to the shareholders whose names are on the register at the record date. Those shareholders who are registered as shareholders on the date of the general meeting are entitled to attend or vote at such meeting. 77 Table of Contents The annual general meeting of shareholders must be held at our registered office or at such other place within the city in which the registered office is located; meetings other than the annual general meeting may be held at any other place determined by the board of directors. Our articles of association provide that a quorum for a general meeting is the presence of at least five shareholders, including a representative of the President of India. This year’s annual general meeting is scheduled for September 28, 2007. Voting Rights At any general meeting, voting is by show of hands (where each shareholder has one vote) unless a poll is demanded by at least 10% of those entitled to vote on the resolution or those holding shares with a paid-up value of at least Rs.50,000. Upon a poll, every shareholder entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by the shareholder. The Chairman has a deciding vote in the case of any tie. Our articles of association do not allow shareholders to cumulate their votes. Any shareholder may appoint a proxy. The instrument appointing a proxy must be lodged with us at least 48 hours before the time of the meeting. A corporate shareholder may appoint an authorized representative who may vote in all respects as if a shareholder, both on a show of hands and upon a poll. Ordinary resolutions may be passed by simple majority of those present and voting at any general meeting for which the required period of notice has been given. However, certain resolutions such as those relating to the alteration of our articles of association, the commencement of a new line of business, the issue of further shares without preemptive rights and a reduction of share capital require a three-fourth majority of the votes cast in favor of the resolution (whether by show of hands or upon a poll). The Companies Act has been amended to require that certain shareholder resolutions only be passed through postal ballot. Register of Shareholders, Record Dates and Transfer of Shares Our share transfer agents maintain registers of our shareholders and beneficial owners of shares held through depositaries. For the purpose of determining equity shares entitled to annual dividends, the register is closed for a specified period prior to the annual general meeting. The Companies Act and our listing agreement with The Stock Exchange, Mumbai (and the other Indian Stock Exchanges) permit us, according to a resolution of the Board and upon at least 15 days’ advance notice to The Stock Exchange, Mumbai (and such other stock exchanges), to set the record date and upon seven days’ public notice to close the register of shareholders for not more than 30 days at a time, and not more than 45 days in a year, in order for us to determine which shareholders are entitled to certain rights relating to the shares. Trading of shares may, however, continue while the register of shareholders is closed. Following introduction of the Depositories Act, 1996, and the repeal of Section 22A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, which enabled companies to refuse to register transfers of shares in certain circumstances, the shares of a company are freely transferable, subject only to the provisions of Section 111A of the Companies Act. Pursuant to Section 111A, if the transfer of shares is in contravention of any of the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 or the regulations issued thereunder or the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, the Company Law Board (a statutory body which administers the Companies Act) may, on application made by an investor, the Securities and Exchange Board of India or certain other parties, direct the rectification of the register of members. The Company Law Board may, in its discretion, issue an interim order suspending the voting rights attached to the relevant shares, before making or completing its inquiry into the alleged contravention. Pending the inquiry, the rights of a holder to transfer the shares would not be restricted, although the voting rights attached to the shares may remain suspended by an order of the Company Law Board. The Indian Companies Act, 1956, has been recently amended to provide for the constitution of a National Company Law Tribunal and dissolution of the Company Law Board. The National Company Law Tribunal shall 78 Table of Contents exercise all powers that had been conferred on the Company Law Board or the High Courts by the Indian Companies Act, 1956. This amendment has not yet been brought into force. Shares held through depositories are transferred in the form of book entries or in electronic form in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down by Securities and Exchange Board of India. These regulations provide the regime for the functioning of the depositaries and the participants and set out the manner in which the records are to be kept and maintained and the safeguards to be followed in this system. Transfers of beneficial ownership of shares held through a depositary are exempt from stamp duty. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has notified our equity shares for trading and settlement only in book-entry form for all investors, except for transactions made outside and which are not required to be reported to the stock exchange. Transfers of equity shares in book-entry form require both the seller and the purchaser of the equity shares to establish accounts with depositary participants appointed by depositaries established under the Depositaries Act, 1996. Charges for opening an account with a depositary participant, transaction charges for each trade and custodian charges for securities held in each account vary depending upon the practice of each depositary participant. Upon delivery, the equity shares shall be registered in the name of the relevant depositary on our books in book-entry form and this depositary shall enter the name of the investor in its records as the beneficial owner. The transfer of beneficial ownership shall be effected through the records of the depositary. The beneficial owner shall be entitled to all rights and benefits and subject to all liabilities in respect of his securities held by a depositary. The requirement to hold our equity shares in book-entry form will apply to the ADS holders when the equity shares are withdrawn from the depositary facility upon surrender of the global depositary receipts. In order to trade our equity shares in the Indian market, the withdrawing ADS holder will be required to comply with the procedures described above. We have entered into a listing agreement with each of the other Indian stock exchanges on which the shares are listed. Clause 40A of the listing agreements provides that if an acquisition of a listed company’s equity shares results in the acquirer and its associates holding 5% or more of the company’s outstanding equity shares, the acquirer must report its holding to the relevant stock exchanges. If an acquisition would result in the acquirer and its associates holding equity shares which carry 10% or more of the voting rights, then the acquirer must notify the relevant stock exchanges. If an acquisition is deemed a takeover, the acquirer must, before acquiring shares, offer (in accordance with Clause 40B of the listing agreements) on a uniform basis to all remaining shareholders of the company to acquire a minimum of a further 20% of the total shares of the company at a prescribed price. The acquisition of shares of a company listed on an Indian stock exchange beyond certain threshold amounts is subject to regulations governing takeovers of Indian companies. See “The Offer and Listing—The Indian Securities Market—Takeover Code.” Clauses 40A and 40B and such regulations will not apply to shares so long as they are represented by ADSs. Shareholder Access to Corporate Records Under the Companies Act, the shareholder register and index, the register and index of debenture holders and copies of all annual returns together with copies of certificates and documents required to be annexed thereto, must be kept at our registered office for inspection by any share or debenture holder free of charge and by any other person on payment of a fee. The minute books of the general meetings of our shareholders must be kept at our registered office and be made available for inspection by our shareholders regardless of the size of their shareholding. Disclosure of Ownership Interest Section 187C of the Companies Act generally requires beneficial owners of shares of Indian companies who are not holders of record to declare to the company details of the holder of record and holders of record to declare details of the beneficial owner. While it is unclear whether Section 187C applies to holders of ADSs of a company, investors who exchange ADSs for shares are subject to this Section. Failure to comply with Section 187C would not affect the obligation of a company to register a transfer of shares or to pay any dividends to the registered holder of any shares in respect of which such declaration has not been made, but any person who fails to make the required declaration may be liable for a fine of up to Rs.1,000 for each day the failure continues. Furthermore, any 79 Table of Contents charge, promissory note or any other collateral agreement created, executed or entered into by the registered owner of any share in respect of which a declaration required under Section 187C has not been made is not enforceable by the beneficial owner or any person claiming through him. So long as the government of India’s shareholding equals or exceeds 51%, Section 187C will not apply to holders of our equity securities, including holders of our ADSs or equity shares. Audit and Annual Report At least 21 days before the annual general meeting of shareholders, we must circulate either a detailed or an abridged version of our audited balance sheet and profit and loss account and the related reports of our board of directors and our auditors. We are also required under the Companies Act to make available upon request of any shareholder a complete balance sheet and profit and loss account in the case of circulation of abridged accounts. The Comptroller and Auditor General of India, has the power to direct the manner in which our accounts are audited by the auditors appointed pursuant to Section 619(2) of the Companies Act, to give the auditors instructions in regard to any matter relating to the performance of their functions and to conduct a supplementary or test audit of our accounts by such auditors. The Comptroller and Auditor General also has the right to comment on or supplement the audit report to the Comptroller and Auditor General which must be placed before our annual general meeting at the same time and in the same manner as the audit report. Powers of the President of India Under Articles 66A and 66B of our articles of association, the President of India is entitled to appoint one third of our total number of directors including our Chairman-cum-Managing Director as well as our whole time directors. Article 69(i) requires the Chairman to reserve for the decision of the President of India all proposals, decisions or matters which raise in the opinion of the Chairman any important issue and which are, on that account, fit to be reserved for the decision of the President of India. No decision on these important issues may be taken in the absence of the Chairman appointed by the President of India. Article 69(ii) lists the matters in respect of which prior approval of the President of India must be obtained, which include issuance of debentures and the sale, lease or disposal of any land or building with an original book value in excess of Rs.1 million. Under Article 71, we may not take action in respect of any proposal or decision of the board of directors reserved for approval of the President until his approval is obtained. The President may modify the board of directors’ proposals or decisions. Article 70 grants the President of India the power to issue directives in regard to the conduct of our business and affairs, which are binding on our board of directors. These powers include the power to give directives to us as to the exercise and performance of our functions in matters involving national security or substantial public interest, power to call for returns, accounts and other information with respect to our properties and activities and to determine in consultation with the board of directors our financial and economic objectives. Acquisition by Us of Our Own Shares Until 1998, the Companies Act did not permit a company to acquire its own equity shares because of the resulting reduction in the company’s capital. However, the government of India amended the Companies Act to allow a repurchase of shares in certain circumstances. A buy-back requires compliance with specific buy-back guidelines specified in the Companies Act and by the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Holders of ADSs will be eligible to participate in a buy-back in certain cases. An ADS holder may acquire shares by withdrawing from the depositary facility and then selling those shares back to us. There can be no assurance that the shares offered by an ADS holder in any buy-back of shares by us will be accepted by us. Investors are advised to consult Indian legal advisers prior to participating in any buyback by us, including in relation to any tax issues relating to such buy-back. 80 Table of Contents Liquidation Rights Subject to the rights of employees, creditors and of the holders of any other shares entitled by their terms to preferential repayment over the shares, in the event of our winding up, the holders of our shares are entitled to be repaid the amount of capital paid up or credited as paid up on their shares. All surplus assets after payments due to the holders of any preference shares belong to the holders of the shares in proportion to the amount paid up or credited as paid up on such shares, respectively, at the commencement of the winding up. American Depositary Shares Our ADSs were originally issued in an exchange offer during October 2001 in which we offered ADSs for our global depositary receipts on a one-for-one basis. Our global depositary receipt program was cancelled and the receipts delisted from the London Stock Exchange in December 2001. At the end of October 2001, our ADSs were listed and began trading on the New York Stock Exchange. There have been no changes to the depositary agreement governing our ADSs since the exchange offer. MATERIAL CONTRACTS Since April 1, 2006, we have not entered into any material contracts that were not in the ordinary course of business. INDIAN FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTROLS AND SECURITIES REGULATIONS Restrictions on Conversion of Rupees There are restrictions on the conversion of rupees into dollars. Before February 29, 1992, the Reserve Bank of India determined the official value of the rupee in relation to a weighted basket of currencies of India’s major trading partners. In the February 1992 budget, a new dual exchange rate mechanism was introduced by allowing conversion of 60.0% of the foreign exchange received on trade or current account at a market-determined rate and the remaining 40.0% at the official rate. All importers were, however, required to buy foreign exchange at the market rate except for certain specified priority imports. In March 1993, the exchange rate was unified and allowed to float. In February 1994 and again in August 1994, the Reserve Bank of India announced relaxations in payment restrictions in the case of a number of transactions. Since August 1994, the government of India has substantially complied with its obligations owed to the International Monetary Fund, under which India is committed to refrain from using exchange restrictions on current international transactions as an instrument in managing the balance of payments. Effective July 1995, the process of current account convertibility was advanced by relaxing restrictions on foreign exchange for various purposes, such as foreign business travel, travel for education, travel for pilgrimage, medical treatment and others. Restrictions on Sale of the Equity Shares Underlying the ADSs and for Repatriation of Sale Proceeds ADSs issued by Indian companies to non-residents have free transferability outside India. However, under Indian regulations and practice, the approval of the Reserve Bank of India is required for the sale of equity shares underlying the ADSs (other than a sale on a stock exchange or in connection with an offer made under the takeover regulations) by a non-resident of India to a resident of India as well as for renunciation of rights to a resident of India. Investors who seek to sell in India any equity shares (other than a sale on a stock exchange or in connection with an offer made under the takeover regulations) withdrawn from the depositary facility and to convert the rupee proceeds from such sale into foreign currency and repatriate such foreign currency from India will, subject to the foregoing, have to obtain Reserve Bank of India approval for each such transaction. Limitations on Deposits of Equity Shares into the ADS Program Under procedures recently adopted by the Reserve Bank of India, the depositary will be permitted to accept deposits of our outstanding equity shares and deliver ADSs representing the deposited equity shares to the extent, and limited to the number, of ADSs that have previously been converted into underlying equity shares. Under these 81 Table of Contents new procedures, if you elect to surrender your ADSs and receive equity shares, you may be unable to re-deposit those outstanding equity shares with our depositary and receive ADSs because the number of new ADSs that can be issued cannot, at any time, exceed the number of ADSs converted into underlying equity shares or result in foreign equity in us exceeding 49%. Specifically, in February 2002, the Reserve Bank of India issued operative guidelines for “limited two-way fungibility.” Under the guidelines, a registered broker in India is now permitted to purchase equity shares of an Indian company on behalf of persons resident outside India for the purpose of converting the equity shares so purchased into ADRs or GDRs, provided that (i) the equity shares are purchased on a recognized stock exchange, (ii) the Indian company has issued ADRs or GDRs, (iii) the equity shares are purchased with the permission of the custodian of the ADRs or GDRs of the Indian company, and are deposited with such custodian, (iv) the number of equity shares so purchased to be converted into ADRs or GDRs do not exceed the ADRs or GDRs previously converted into underlying equity shares (the number of equity shares available for conversion into ADRs or GDRs is dependent upon the number of equity shares arrived at after conversion of ADRs into equity shares will have to be checked with the custodian) and (v) the number of equity shares so purchased to be converted shall be subject to sectoral caps as applicable and all the concerned parties shall comply with the Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (Through Depository Receipt Mechanism) Scheme, 1993 and the guidelines issued thereunder. Further, paragraph (v) of the guidelines states that the company should not be involved in the process and the process should be demand driven upon the request for ADRs or GDRs emanating from overseas investors, and expenses involved in the overseas transaction would be borne by the investors themselves. Restrictions On Foreign Ownership Of Indian Securities The government of India regulates ownership of Indian companies by foreigners. Foreign investment in Indian securities, including the equity shares represented by the ADSs, is generally regulated by the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, which permits transactions including the inflow or outflow of foreign exchange and empowers the Reserve Bank of India to prohibit or regulate such transactions. The Foreign Exchange Management Act permits most transactions involving foreign exchange except those prohibited or restricted by the Reserve Bank of India. The extent of control exercised over transactions involving foreign exchange depends upon the type of transaction involved. Transactions that alter the assets or liabilities, including contingent liabilities, outside India of persons resident in India or the assets and liabilities in India of persons resident outside India are known as capital account transactions. Transactions other than capital account transactions are known as current account transactions. The Foreign Exchange Management Act has eased restrictions on current account transactions. However, the Reserve Bank of India continues to exercise control over capital account transactions. The Reserve Bank of India has issued regulations under the Foreign Exchange Management Act to regulate various capital account transactions, including certain aspects of the purchase and issuance of shares by Indian companies. The Reserve Bank of India has issued a notification under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act relaxing the requirement of prior approval for an Indian company making an ADS issue provided that the issuer is eligible to issue ADSs pursuant to guidelines issued by the Ministry of Finance and has the necessary approval from the Foreign Investment Promotion Board. Under the foreign investment rules, the following restrictions are applicable on foreign ownership: · under the “foreign direct investment” scheme, foreign individuals may own more than 49% of the equity shares of an Indian telecommunications company only with the approval of the Foreign Investment Promotion Board; this approval is granted on a case-by-case basis. However, ISPs with gateways, radio paging, and end to end bandwidth permitted up to 74% with FDI beyond 49% requiring government approval. 82 Table of Contents · under the “depositary” scheme, foreign investors may purchase ADSs or global depositary receipts, subject to the receipt of all necessary government approvals at the time the depositary receipt program is set up; · under the “portfolio investment” scheme, foreign institutional investors, subject to registration with the Securities and Exchange Board of India and the Reserve Bank of India, may be permitted to own, in the aggregate, up to an additional 24.0% of our equity shares that are not represented by ADSs or global depositary receipts (and up to 49.0% with the approval of our shareholders); no single foreign institutional investor may own more than 10.0% of our equity shares; and · under the “portfolio investment” scheme, non resident Indians may own up to an aggregate or 10.0% of our equity shares; no single non-resident Indian may own more than 5.0% of our total equity shares. We had obtained approvals from the Ministry of Finance, the Foreign Investment Promotion Board, the DOT and special permission from the Reserve Bank of India for the offering of our global depositary receipts. Various tax concessions were also made available with respect to the existing global depositary receipt offering in accordance with the provisions of Section 115AC of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1961. Since no new shares were issued or offered in our exchange offer and the exchange offer was related to a change in the form of depository receipts, the original approvals needed merely to be taken on file, noted and recorded for modification. We obtained from the Ministry of Finance, Reserve Bank of India, the Foreign Investment Promotion Board and the DOT, modifications to the original approvals/special permission given by them, for our exchange offer. As of June 30, 2007 foreign direct investment in us was 14.31% of our equity shares. An investor in ADSs does not need to seek the specific approval from the government of India to purchase, hold or dispose of its ADSs. However, foreign investment in our ADSs may not exceed 49% without prior government approval. Our outstanding equity shares, including the equity shares underlying the ADSs, are listed and traded on the Calcutta, Delhi and Chennai Stock Exchanges, The Stock Exchange, Mumbai and the National Stock Exchange. The prices for equity shares as quoted in the official list of each of the Indian stock exchanges are in Indian rupees. The ADS are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Equity shares which have been withdrawn from the depositary facility and transferred on our register of shareholders to a person other than the depositary or its nominee may be voted by that person. However, an ADS holder may not receive sufficient advance notice of shareholder meetings to enable you to withdraw the underlying equity shares and vote at such meetings. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a foreign institutional investor, non-resident Indian or non-Indian corporation were to withdraw its equity shares from the ADS program, its investment in the equity shares would be subject to the general restrictions on foreign ownership noted above and may be subject to the portfolio investment restrictions, including the 10-24% portfolio investment limitations, and the 5-10% non-resident Indian limitation. The application of these limitations, however, is not clear. Secondary purchases of securities of Indian companies in India by foreign direct investors or investments by non-resident Indians, persons of Indian origin and foreign institutional investors above the ownership levels set forth above, require government of India approval on a case-by-case basis. It is unclear whether similar case-by-case approvals of ownership of equity shares withdrawn from the depositary facility by foreign institutional investors and non-resident Indians would be required. Further, if an ADS holder withdraws equity shares from the ADS program and its direct or indirect holding in us exceeds 15.0% of our total equity (under the Takeover Code), such holder would be required to make a public offer to the remaining shareholders. If one withdraws equity shares from the depositary facility, one will not be able to redeposit them with the depositary. If one wishes to sell the equity shares withdrawn from the depositary facility, they will be required to receive the prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India. 83 Table of Contents Under procedures approved by the Reserve Bank of India, the custodian will be permitted to accept deposits of our outstanding equity shares purchased on a recognized stock exchange by registered brokers in India on behalf of a foreign investor. The depositary may issue ADRs evidencing ADSs representing the deposited equity shares to the extent, and limited to the number, of ADSs that have previously been converted into underlying equity shares, subject to applicable foreign ownership restrictions. See “— Limitations on Deposits of Equity Shares into the ADS Program” above for more details on these procedures. Other Regulations For more information on relevant securities and related regulations, please see “The Offer and Listing—The Indian Securities Market.” TAXATION Indian Taxation The following is a summary of the material Indian tax consequences for holders of ADSs and equity shares received upon withdrawal of such equity shares who are not resident in India, whether of Indian origin or not. This discussion is based on the provisions of the Indian Income-Tax Act, 1961, including the special tax regime for ADSs contained in Section 115AC, which has been extended to cover additional ADSs that an investor may acquire in an amalgamation or restructuring of the company, and certain regulations implementing the Section 115AC regime. The Indian Income Tax Act is amended every year by the Finance Act of the relevant year. Some or all of the tax consequences of the Section 115AC regime may be amended or modified by future amendments to the Indian Income Tax Act. Amendments to Section 115AC extend the special tax regime of Section 115AC to ADSs re-issued, in accordance with procedures established by the Indian government (operative guidelines issued under the Foreign Exchange Management notification dated February 13, 2002), against existing shares of an Indian company purchased by a non-resident investor in foreign currency through an approved intermediary. Under these guidelines re-issuance of ADSs would be permitted to the extent of ADSs which have been converted into underlying shares. The summary is not intended to constitute a complete analysis of the tax consequences under Indian law of the acquisition, ownership and sale of ADSs and equity shares by non-resident investors. Potential investors should, therefore, consult their own tax advisers on the tax consequences of such acquisition, ownership and sale, including specifically the tax consequences under Indian law, the law of the jurisdiction of their residence, any tax treaty between India and their country of residence, and in particular the application of the regulations implementing the section 115AC regime. Residence For the purpose of the Income Tax Act, an individual is a resident of India during any fiscal year, if he (1) is in India in that year for 182 days or more or (2) having within the four years preceding that year been in India for a period or periods amounting in all to 365 days or more, is in India for period or periods amounting in all to 60 days or more in that year. The period of 60 days is substituted by 182 days in case of an Indian citizen or a person of Indian origin who being resident outside India visits India during the financial year or an Indian citizen who leaves India for the purposes of his employment during the financial year. A company is resident in India in any fiscal year if it is registered in India or the control and management of its affairs is situated wholly in India in that year. A firm or other association of persons is resident in India except where the control and the management of its affairs are situated wholly outside India. Taxation of Distributions Dividends distributed by an Indian company after March 31, 2002 are not subject to tax in the hands of shareholders. We must pay a “dividend distribution tax” at the rate of 12.5% (plus a surcharge of 10% and an add-on tax at the rate of 2% of the interim dividend) and distribution tax on the final dividend of Rs. 1.00 per share at the rate of 15% (plus a surcharge of 10% and an add-on tax at the rate of 3%). 84 Table of Contents Taxation on Redemption of ADSs The acquisition of equity shares upon a redemption of ADSs by a non-resident investor will not give rise to a taxable event for Indian tax purposes. Taxation on Sale of Equity Shares or ADSs Any transfer of ADSs or equity shares outside India by a non-resident investor to another non-resident investor does not give rise to Indian capital gains tax. Subject to any relief under any relevant double taxation treaty, a gain arising on the sale of an equity share to a resident of India or where the sale is made inside India will generally give rise to a liability for Indian capital gains tax. Such tax is required to be withheld at source. Where the equity share has been held for more than 12 months (measured from the date of advice of redemption of the ADSs by the Depositary), the rate of tax is 10.46% (inclusive of surcharge). Where the equity share has been held for 12 months or less, the rate of tax varies and will be subject to tax at normal rates of income-tax applicable to non-residents under the provisions of the Indian Income Tax Act, subject to a maximum of 41.82% (inclusive of surcharge) in the case of foreign companies. The actual rate depends on a number of factors, including without limitation the nature of the non-resident investor. During the period the underlying equity shares are held by non-resident investors on a transfer from the Depositary upon redemption of ADRs, the provisions of the Avoidance of Double Taxation Agreement entered into by the government of India with the country of residence of the non-resident investors will be applicable in the matter of taxation of any capital gain arising on a transfer of the equity shares. The double taxation treaty between the United States and India does not provide U.S. residents with any relief from Indian tax on capital gains. For purposes of determining the amount of capital gains arising on a sale of an equity share for Indian tax purposes, the cost of acquisition of an equity share received upon redemption of an ADS will be the price of the share prevailing on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai or the National Stock Exchange on the date on which the depositary advises the custodian of such redemption, not the acquisition cost of the ADS being redeemed. The holding period of an equity share received upon redemption of an ADS will commence from the date of advice of redemption by the depositary. The exact procedures for the computation and collection of Indian capital gains tax are not settled. Rights A distribution to non-resident holders of additional ADSs or equity shares or rights to subscribe for equity shares made with respect to ADSs or equity shares is not subject to tax in the hands of the non-resident holder. It is unclear as to whether capital gain derived from the sale of rights by a non-resident holder not entitled to exemption under a tax treaty to another non-resident holder outside India will be subject to Indian capital gains tax. If rights are deemed by the Indian tax authorities to be situated within India, as our situs is in India, the gains realized on the sale of rights will be subject to customary Indian taxation as discussed above. Stamp Duty A transfer of ADSs is not subject to Indian stamp duty. Normally, upon the acquisition of equity shares from the depositary in exchange for ADSs representing such equity shares in physical form, an investor would be liable for Indian stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the market value of the equity shares at the date of registration. Similarly, a sale of equity shares by an investor would be also subject to Indian stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the market value of the equity shares on the trade date, although customarily such tax is borne by the transferee, that is, the purchaser. However, our equity shares are mandatorily deliverable in uncertificated form and under Indian stamp law, no stamp duty is payable on the acquisition or transfer of equity shares in uncertificated/dematerialized form. 85 Table of Contents Other Taxes At present, there are no taxes on wealth, gifts and inheritance which may apply to the ADSs and underlying equity shares. Service Tax Brokerage or commission paid to stockbrokers in connection with the sale or purchase of shares was subject to a service tax 12.24%, however the rate was changed to 12.36% effective May 13, 2007. The stockbroker is responsible for collecting the service tax and paying it to the relevant authority. United States Federal Income Taxation The following is a summary of certain United States federal income tax considerations for U.S. Holders (as defined below) of ADSs or equity shares who hold ADSs or equity shares as of the date hereof. This summary is based upon existing United States federal income tax law which is subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. This summary does not discuss all aspects of United States federal income taxation which may be important to particular holders in light of their individual investment circumstances, such as ADSs or equity shares held by holders subject to special tax rules ( e.g., financial institutions, insurance companies, broker-dealers, tax-exempt organizations, and non-U.S. Holders) or to persons that will hold ADSs or equity shares as part of a straddle, hedge, conversion, or other integrated transactions for United States federal income tax purposes or that have a functional currency other than the United States dollar, all of whom may be subject to tax rules that differ significantly from those summarized below. In addition, this summary does not discuss any state, local, or foreign tax considerations. This summary assumes that investors hold, and will continue to hold, their ADSs or equity shares as “capital assets” (generally, property held for investment) under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code). Holders are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding the United States federal, state, local, and foreign income tax considerations, including the “passive foreign investment company” rules described below, of the ownership and disposition of ADSs or equity shares. For purposes of this summary, a “U.S. Holder” is a beneficial owner of ADSs or equity shares that is for United States federal income tax purposes (i) an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation, partnership, or other entity created or organized in or under the law of the United States or any State or political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is includible in gross income for United States federal income tax purposes regardless of its source, or (iv) a trust (A) the administration of which is subject to the primary supervision of a United States court and which has one or more United States persons who have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or (B) that was in existence on August 20, 1996, was treated as a United States person under the Code on the previous day, and properly elected to continue to be so treated. The tax treatment of persons who hold their ADSs or equity shares through a partnership (including an entity treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes) will generally depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. General For purposes of United States federal income taxation, a holder of ADSs will be treated as the owner of his proportionate interest in the underlying equity shares held by the depositary. Accordingly, no gain or loss will be recognized upon the exchange of ADSs for the holder’s proportionate interest in equity shares, a holder’s tax basis in the withdrawn equity shares will be the same as his tax basis in the ADSs surrendered in exchange therefor, and such holder’s holding period in the withdrawn equity shares will include the period during which the holder held the surrendered ADSs. A foreign corporation will be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” (PFIC), for United States federal income tax purposes, if 75% or more of its gross income or 50% or more of its assets are “passive” as determined under the PFIC rules. The determination of whether a foreign corporation is a PFIC is a factual determination and may entail the resolution of certain legal issues such as the tax treatment of on-lending transactions involving related parties under the PFIC rules. In addition, such determination is made on an annual 86 Table of Contents basis and, accordingly, is subject to change from year to year. The following discussion assumes that we will not be classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes. For further PFIC considerations, see “—PFIC Considerations” below. U.S. Holders Taxation of Dividends. Any cash distributions paid by us out of our earnings and profits, as determined under United States federal income tax principles, will be subject to tax as ordinary dividend income and will be includible in the gross income of a U.S. Holder upon receipt. Cash distributions paid by us in excess of our earnings and profits will be treated as a tax-free return of capital to the extent of the U.S. Holder’s adjusted tax basis in his ADSs or equity shares, and thereafter as gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset. Dividends paid in Indian rupees will be includible in income in a United States dollar amount based on the United States dollar—Indian rupee exchange rate prevailing at the time of receipt of such dividends by the depositary. Dividends received on the ADSs or equity shares will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction allowed to corporations, but generally will qualify for the reduced income tax rate for qualified dividend income, provided certain holding period requirements are met. Dividends paid on ADSs or equity shares will be treated, for United States federal income tax purposes, as foreign source income. A U.S. Holder may be eligible, subject to a number of complex limitations, to claim a foreign tax credit in respect of any Indian income tax imposed on dividends received on the ADSs or equity shares. U.S. Holders who do not elect to claim a foreign tax credit for Indian income tax withheld may instead claim the Indian income tax withheld as a deduction for United States federal income tax purposes, but only for a year in which the U.S. Holder elects to do so for all creditable foreign taxes. In certain circumstances, a U.S. Holder may not claim a foreign tax credit (and instead may claim a deduction) for foreign taxes imposed on a dividend if the U.S. Holder (i) has not held the ADSs or equity shares for at least 16 days in the 30-day period beginning 15 days before the ex-dividend date during which it is not protected from risk of loss, (ii) is obligated to make certain payments related to such dividend, or (iii) subject to the promulgation of future Treasury regulations that are anticipated to be retroactively applied, holds the ADSs or equity shares in an arrangement in which the expected economic profit of the U.S. Holder is insubstantial compared to the value of the foreign tax credit expected to be obtained as a result of the arrangement. A distribution of additional shares issued by us to U.S. Holders with respect to their ADSs or equity shares that is pro rata to all of our shareholders may not be subject to United States federal income tax. In the case of such a non-taxable stock dividend, such a distribution will not give rise to foreign source income and a U.S. Holder will not be able to use the foreign tax credit arising from any Indian withholding tax imposed in connection with such distribution unless the foreign tax credit can be applied (subject to applicable limitations) against United States federal income tax due on other foreign source income of the U.S. Holder. The tax basis of such additional shares will be determined by allocating the U.S. Holder’s tax basis in the ADSs or equity shares between the ADSs or equity shares and the additional shares, based on their relative fair market values on the date of distribution. Sale or Other Disposition of ADSs or Ordinary Shares. A U.S. Holder will generally recognize capital gain or loss upon the sale or other disposition of ADSs or equity shares in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized upon the disposition and the U.S. Holder’s adjusted tax basis in such ADSs or equity shares. Any capital gain or loss will be long-term if the ADSs or equity shares have been held for more than one year and will generally be United States source gain or loss. The claim for a deduction in respect of a capital loss is subject to limitations. PFIC Considerations. If we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder would be subject to special rules generally intended to reduce or eliminate any benefits from the deferral of United States federal income tax that a U.S. Holder could derive from investing in a foreign corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. In such event, a U.S. Holder of ADSs or equity shares may be subject to tax at ordinary income tax rates on (i) any gain recognized on the sale of the ADSs or equity shares and (ii) any “excess distribution” paid on the ADSs or equity shares (generally, a distribution in excess of 125% of the average annual distributions paid by us in the three preceding taxable years). In addition, a U.S. Holder may be subject to an interest charge on such gain or excess distribution. 87 Table of Contents DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY We file reports, including annual reports on Form 20-F, and other information with the SEC pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC that apply to foreign private issuers. One may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20459. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Since November 4, 2002, subject to some exceptions, we have been required to file our periodic reports electronically through the SEC’s EDGAR system. Any filings we make electronically are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s Website at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, in accordance with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), we have disclosed on our website significant ways in which our corporate governance standards differ from those followed by United States domestic issuers under NYSE standards is available at http://mtnl.net.in/nyse-india.doc. Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk Financial instruments which potentially subject MTNL to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of periodic temporary investments of excess cash, trade receivables, and investments in ITI Limited preference shares and MKVDC bonds. The Company places its temporary excess cash in short term deposits. By their nature, all such financial instruments involve risk including the credit risk of non-performance by counter parties. In management’s opinion, as of March 31, 2006 and 2007, there was no significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance of the counterparties to these financial instruments, other than the amounts already provided for in the financial statements. To reduce credit risk, MTNL performs ongoing credit evaluation of customers. As of March 31, 2006 and 2007, BSNL and DOT accounted for more than 10% of total receivables. The risk in relation to investment in ITI Limited is offset by clause relating to MTNL’s entitlement to set off the amounts receivable in respect of principal outstanding from the dues payable to ITI Limited. The clause is built into the share purchase agreement. The credit risk for the investment in bonds issued by MKVDC is minimized due to the payment mechanism envisaged in the prospectus, which states that any shortfall is to be met by the Maharashtra State Government that has undertaken to earmark an amount equal to interest and principal repayments out of its annual budget for the respective corporation. In the event of such amount not being transferred the trustees would be entitled to invoke the guarantee given by the state government. Exchange Rate and Interest Rate Risk We are not exposed to any material foreign currency exchange risk since our revenues and expenses are primarily in Indian rupees. We are not exposed to any material interest rate risk since we do not rely on borrowings to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. As of March 31, 2007, we had no debt. Fair Value The fair value of MTNL’s current assets and current liabilities approximate their carrying values because of their short-term maturity. Such financial instruments are classified as current and are expected to be settled within the next twelve months. The approximate fair value of investments in held to maturity securities, as determined by using current interest as of March 31, 2007 is Rs.3,430 million as compared to their carrying amount of Rs.3,500 million. The approximate fair value of loans to employees, as determined by using current interest as of March 31, 2007 is Rs.1,946 million as compared to their carrying amount of Rs.2,150 million. 88 Table of Contents Due to the uncertainties attached to the timing of ultimate realization of restricted assets, it is not practicable to determine their fair values. The fair value of amounts due to and from related parties cannot be determined given that the amounts are with related parties. The terms of settlement are not normal commercial terms. Item 12. Description of Securities Other than Equity Securities Not applicable. PART II Item 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearage and Delinquencies. None. Item 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds None. Item 15. Controls and Procedures As at March 31, 2006: Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Our management, under the supervision of and with the participation of our Chairman-cum-Managing Director, as Chief Executive Officer and our Director of Finance, acting as Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) on March 31, 2006, the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluations, our Chairman-cum-Managing Director and Director of Finance have concluded that as of March 31, 2006, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. There are significant material weaknesses related to management’s inadequate knowledge and experience in application of U.S. GAAP, commensurate with our financial reporting requirements, which had led to the restatement of our financial statements for year ended March 31, 2005. Remediation: We have remediated during 2006-07 the material weaknesses disclosed above. The remediation included among other things, implementation of more detailed financial statement review procedures, documentation of information technology-related controls, documentation of internal controls as part of the implementation of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and strengthening of U.S. GAAP skills of our accounting staff on a regional basis and at the Corporate Center. The team for preparation of US GAAP accounts has qualified accountants and experienced officials. The management had organized frequent training programmes for the key accounting officials of Delhi, Mumbai units and corporate office for preparation of US GAAP accounts. The training sessions were successfully concluded and skills of the US GAAP team were adequately up graded. The management also engages the services of an US GAP expert for advice on need basis on various technical issues and specifically the effect of new US GAAP pronouncements. As at March 31, 2007: (a)Disclosure Controls and Procedures: Our management, under the supervision of and with the participation of our Chairman-cum-Managing Director, as Chief Executive Officer and our Director of Finance, acting as Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) on March 31, 2007, 89 Table of Contents the end of the period covered by this report. Based on such evaluations, our Chairman-cum-Managing Director and Director of Finance have concluded that as of March 31, 2007, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. (b) Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting. The Board of Directors and the senior management team at MTNL are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls. MTNL’s internal control framework is designed to provide a reasonable assurance regarding the financial reporting and the preparation and fair representation of the published financial statements. Management, under the oversight of the Audit Committee, has conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting based on the criteria established in Internal Controls – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The assessment of internal controls was designed to include the Entity Level Controls, Process Application and Transaction Controls and Information Technology General Controls. The scope of the controls testing included the significant accounting balances mapped on materiality parameters as adopted by the Core Team and Board of Directors of MTNL. The internal controls were in operations over the reporting period from April 1, 2006 to March 31, 2007. The Internal Controls Identified by the management were comprehensively tested by the core team assisted by an independent firm of accountants and supported by the internal auditors of MTNL who are independent firms of accountants. Nature of Controls assessed: 1) Entity Level Controls, which included aspects like Control Environment, Information & Communication, Monitoring, Risk Assessment, Control Activities, addressing the various important COSO attributes. 2) Process Application and Transactions, which included various revenue processes, and other processes like operating expenditures, fixed assets, inventory, cash disbursement, treasury, taxation and financial statement consolidation procedures at both Mumbai and Delhi units as well as at corporate office. 3) Information Technology General Controls, which include IT processes like logical security, End User Computing, Computer Operations, Change Management, physical security and Service Level Agreement, tested at both Mumbai and Delhi units. Management’s assessment was completed on July 2, 2007. Based on this assessment, the management has concluded that as at March 31, 2007, the internal controls over periodical reporting were not effective due to certain material weaknesses. The said deficiencies may cause a material misstatement in the annual financial statements which may not be prevented or detected. Management’s conclusions on the material deficiencies are stated below: 1. Property and equipment During the year Management identified that there are not enough effective controls over timely updation of asset registers at various accounting areas of the Mumbai unit. Deficiencies were also noticed in the process for verification of the properties and equipments and further tallying the verification reports with the assets registers and tallying the assets registers with the books of accounts. The management took appropriate measures to ensure that this deficiency was adequately considered while preparing the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2007 .Nevertheless, Management has concluded that, as of March 31, 2007, the Company did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for properties and equipments . Specifically, the Company has ineffective controls in its Mumbai unit over physical verification and tallying the results thereof with the assets register as well as updating and reconciliation of assets register with the books of account. This control deficiency could result in a misstatement to the property and equipments and the corresponding depreciation expenses. 2. Subscriber Deposits The accounting of subscriber deposits was identified by the management as one of the key deficit area. Specifically this reconciliation of the balances of deposits obtaining in the CSMS system and the books of accounts was inadequate. The management has also identified that the same is largely due to the legacy inherited at the time of migration from manual accounts to CSMS in the earlier years and subsequent manual adjustments of refunds out of the system. Though the transactions for the year 2006-07 in respect of Delhi unit have been tallied with the books of accounts, the same is yet to be completed in respect of Mumbai unit. The management took appropriate measures during the year to ensure that this deficiency was adequately considered while preparing the 90 Table of Contents financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2007. Accordingly Management has concluded that, as of March 31, 2007, the Company did not maintain effective control over the accounting for deposits received from subscribers. Specifically, the Company has ineffective controls on the process of reconciliation of subscriber-wise listing of deposits with the control account balances of previous accounting periods in Delhi unit. However, Mumbai unit is in the process of reconciliation of current period as well as earlier period deposits. This control deficiency could result in a misstatement to the current and non-current portion of customer deposits. 3. Related Party Transactions The accounting of transactions of related parties of the company consisting of D.O.T. & B.S.N.L. is being done on the basis of the existing instructions issued from time to time by the controlling department of Govt.of India and other related guidelines as well as existing regulations and regimes. These guidelines require identification of transactions and /or issues under dispute and also lay down the methodology for resolution. There is no practice of issuing any specific confirmation requests of the balances outstanding in the books of accounts of the company to such related parties and reconciling such balances to the balances as per our books of accounts. The issues requiring confirmation and consequential resolution are retirement benefit claims of absorbed officers and officials of company for the service rendered in government and their provident fund balances in respect of D.O.T. and in respect of B.S.N.L. the significant transactions are the IUC related charges and revenue sharing charges for the usage of NLD network. These transactions are being booked on the basis of the set guidelines and parameters and the confirmation/settlement of disputed issue/transaction is a continuous process. However, the overall balances pertaining to these related parties are not reconciled with the balances as per the books of account of such related parties. The management took appropriate measures during the year to ensure that this deficiency was adequately considered while preparing the financial statements. Accordingly, the management has concluded that, as of March 31, 2007, the Company did not maintain conciliatory control over the accounting for dues from and to related parties. Specifically the Company has ineffective controls on process of obtaining period end account balance confirmations and reconciliation thereof. This control deficiency could result in a misstatement to the balances of dues to/from related parties and the corresponding revenue and cost of revenue. 