Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report before you decide to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties we are not aware of or focused on or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline significantly, which could result in a loss of all or part of your investment. 18 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Risks Related to Our Financial Performance and Operations We have incurred losses since our inception, we expect our operating expenses to continue to exceed our revenues for the foreseeable future and we may never generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. We are a development stage company and have not generated sustainable revenues from operations or been profitable since inception, and it is possible we will never achieve profitability. We have devoted our resources to developing a new generation of therapeutic products, but such products cannot be marketed until clinical testing is completed and governmental approvals have been obtained. Accordingly, there is no current source of revenues from operations, much less profits, to sustain our present activities, and no revenues from operations will likely be available until, and unless, our product candidates are clinically tested, approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies and successfully marketed, either by us or a partner, an outcome which we are not able to guarantee. We will need to obtain additional funding to support our planned level of operations, and we may not be able to obtain such capital on a timely basis or under commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We have experienced significant operating losses in funding our research, development and clinical testing of product candidates, accumulating operating losses totaling over $99.7 million as of December 31, 2007, and we expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses for the foreseeable future, even if we or a future partner of ours is successful in advancing our product candidates to market. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $33.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in securities and we do not expect to generate positive net cash flows for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; • the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials, preclinical development activities and other research and development programs; • the cost related to establishing sales and marketing capabilities; • the timing and terms of any collaborative, licensing and other strategic arrangements that we may establish; • the scope, prioritization and number of development programs we pursue; • the extent to which we invest in or acquire new technologies, products or businesses; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the cost involved in establishing, enforcing or defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights. Based on our current loss rate and existing capital resources, we estimate that we have sufficient funds to sustain our operations at their current levels for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need or choose to seek additional funding within this time period. We may seek additional funding through collaborations, licensing arrangements or other strategic transactions, public or private sales of our equity securities, or debt financings. We may not be able to obtain sufficient additional funding on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, our ability to timely raise capital on commercially reasonable terms may be impaired if we become ineligible to register our securities on registration statements on Form S-3. We will become ineligible if we fail to comply with all applicable requirements of Form S-3, including filing in a timely manner all reports required to be filed by us and having our common stock listed and registered on a national securities exchange. Additionally, if the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates (which is referred to as “public float”) is less than $75 million (calculated as set forth in Form S-3 and SEC rules and regulations), we will not be able to sell more than the equivalent of one-third of our public float in primary offerings under a Form S-3 registration statement in any 12-month period. As of March 3, 2008, our public float was approximately $48.0 million. Alternative means of raising additional capital through sales of our securities, including through the use of a Form S-1 registration statement, may be more costly and time-consuming. 19 Table of Contents Our ability to timely raise capital may be further limited by the rules and regulations and other requirements of the American Stock Exchange, or AMEX, which, as of March 3, 2008, is the exchange on which our common stock is listed. For instance, AMEX requires that we obtain stockholder approval of any transaction involving the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than market value, which (together with sales by our officers, directors and principal stockholders) equals 20% or more of our presently outstanding common stock unless the transaction is deemed a “public offering” by the AMEX staff. Based on our outstanding common stock and closing price, as reported on AMEX, as of March 3, 2008, we could not raise more than approximately $10.6 million without stockholder approval, unless the transaction is deemed a public offering or does not involve the sale, issuance or potential issuance by us of our common stock (or securities convertible into our common stock) at a price less than market value. Obtaining stockholder approval is a costly and time-consuming process. If we were required to obtain stockholder approval, we would expect to spend substantial additional money and resources and believe the process would distract management from our core business. In addition, obtaining stockholder approval would delay our receipt of otherwise available capital, which may materially and adversely affect our business, and there is no guarantee our stockholders would ultimately approve the transaction if proposed. A public offering typically requires broadly announcing the anticipated transaction, which often times depresses the issuer’s stock price. Accordingly, the price at which we could sell our securities in a public offering may be less, and the dilution existing stockholders experience may in turn be greater, than if the offering were not public. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, require us to relinquish proprietary rights or restrict our operations. We may raise additional capital at any time and may do so through one or more financing alternatives, including public or private sales of our equity securities, collaboration or licensing arrangements or other strategic transactions, or debt financings. Each of these financing alternatives carries certain risks. Raising capital through the issuance of common stock may depress the market price of our stock and may substantially dilute our existing stockholders. If we instead seek to raise capital through strategic transactions, such as licensing arrangements or sales of one or more of our technologies or product candidates, we may be required to relinquish valuable rights. For example, any licensing arrangement would likely require us to share a significant portion of any revenues generated by our licensed technologies with our licensees. Additionally, the development of any product candidates licensed or sold to third parties will no longer be in our control and thus we may not realize the full value of any such product candidates. Debt financings could involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing and specific restrictions on the use of our assets, as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens or make investments and may, among other things, preclude us from making distributions to stockholders (either by paying dividends or redeeming stock) and taking other actions beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, investors could impose more one-sided investment terms and conditions on companies that have or are perceived to have limited remaining funds or limited ability to raise additional funds. As we continue our research and development and commercialization activities without raising additional funds, it may become more difficult to raise capital in the future on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, in connection with past financings, we provided certain investors with warrants that contained price-based anti-dilution protection. Among other things, this protection lowers the exercise price of the warrants issued in connection with these financings in the event we issue common stock at a price per share that is less than the warrants’ then-effective exercise price, thereby allowing the warrant-holders to receive the same number of shares of our common stock for less consideration. If we raise additional capital by selling shares of our common stock at less than the then-effective exercise price of these warrants, their exercise price may be reduced. Existing stockholders could experience significant dilution in the future as a result of these or other provisions we provide in the future to investors. For example, if we were to sell approximately 18.0 million shares of common stock at $0.59 per share, the closing price of a share of our common stock, as reported on AMEX, as of March 3, 2008 (for gross proceeds of approximately $10.6 million), the currently outstanding warrants to purchase 2,445,740 shares of common stock at $1.975 a share and currently outstanding warrants to purchase 117,000 shares of common stock at $2.375 a share would be re-priced to $1.745 (a 11.7% reduction in price) and $2.078 a share (a 12.5% reduction in price), respectively. The number of shares issuable upon exercise of these warrants would not change. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to reduce or abandon research and development programs, partner product candidates at inopportune times or pursue less-expensive but higher-risk development paths. If adequate funds are not available to fund our research and development programs and operations at current and anticipated levels, we may be required to delay or reduce the scope of our research and development programs, abandon them altogether or attempt to continue research and development by entering into arrangements with partners or others that, if available at all, may not be on favorable terms and may require us to relinquish some or all of our rights to our product candidates or the financial benefits thereof. In addition, to conserve funds, we may pursue less expensive but higher-risk development paths. For instance, we may limit our process development activities to the minimum we feel is sufficient to support our development and commercialization goals, in particular, with respect to ANX-530. Process development helps define the various parameters and specifications for manufacturing products at commercial-scale. Without comprehensive process development activities, we may lack the information necessary to develop an accurate validation plan to support an NDA and may be unable to successfully manufacture at commercial scale. If we are unable to validate the manufacturing processes included in an NDA, we may be required to amend the NDA, which could result in substantial delays in commercializing the subject drug, as well as call into question our ability to ultimately obtain marketing approval for that drug. In addition, we would expect to spend significant funds undertaking the activities necessary to support an amendment to an NDA. If we are successful in our development efforts for our product candidates, we will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of March 3, 2008, we had 32 full-time employees. To the extent we are successful in our clinical trials, regulatory plans or other development efforts, we will need to continue to expand our managerial, financial, manufacturing, commercial, compliance and other resources in order to manage our operations and clinical trials, continue our research and development programs and commercialize our product candidates. Our management and personnel, systems and facilities currently in place will likely not be adequate to support this growth. To effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects we must: • manage our clinical trials effectively, including our ANX-514 bioequivalence clinical trial and our phase 2 clinical trial of CoFactor for the treatment of advanced breast cancer; • manage our internal research and development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to collaborators and other third parties; • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and; • attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. We may be unable to retain skilled personnel and maintain key relationships. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, scientific and other personnel, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading research institutions and commercial organizations and consultants and advisors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions, particularly in the San Diego, California area. We are currently dependent upon our 21 Table of Contents scientific staff, which has a deep background in our product candidates and our research and development programs, and our manufacturing and regulatory personnel, particularly with respect to ANX-530. Recruiting and retaining senior employees with relevant product development experience in cancer and infectious diseases and process development experience with emulsified cytotoxic drugs is costly and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such individuals on an uninterrupted basis and on commercially acceptable terms, and the failure to do so could have a material and adverse effect on us by significantly delaying one or more of our research and development programs or commercialization of our products. The loss of any of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer and president, our chief scientific officer or our vice president, medical affairs, in particular, could have a material and adverse effect on us and the market for our common stock, particularly if such loss was abrupt or unexpected. None of our employees is obligated to provide services to us for any particular period of time. We do not have non-competition agreements with any of our employees. Furthermore, even if we successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, we may not select individuals with the appropriate skills for the jobs for which they are hired or that integrate well with our existing personnel. Underperforming employees and internal friction may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and negatively impact our product development efforts. In addition, we may incur costs and liabilities terminating our employment relationship with unsatisfactory employees. We may seek to merge with or be acquired by another company and the terms of that transaction may not be desirable. Because of our limited ability to raise funds, including for the reasons noted above, we may seek to merge with another company with a stronger cash position, complementary work force or product candidate portfolio or for other reasons. The market price for our common stock has been at a 4-year low following our announcement on October 1, 2007 of results of our phase 2b clinical trial of CoFactor for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and may not accurately reflect the value of our business. While we will continue to seek to maximize the value of our business to our stockholders, our short-term needs may require us to consummate a transaction involving an exchange of our common stock with that of another company, in which case our stockholders may not realize the full value of our business or their investment. In addition, there are numerous risks associated with merging or being acquired. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the quality of a prospective acquirer or merger-partner, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integrating businesses, facing resistance from employees and being unable to profitably deploy the assets of the new entity. The operations, financial condition, and prospects of the post-transaction entity depend in part on our and our acquirer/merger-partner’s ability to successfully integrate the operations of our product candidates, business and technologies. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings. Any cost savings which are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to operations. If we fail to maintain registration of the shares of common stock issued or issuable pursuant to the exercise of warrants we issued in our July 2005 private placement, we will be required to pay the holders of those securities liquidated damages, which could be material in amount. The terms of the securities purchase agreement that we entered into in connection with our July 2005 private placement require us to pay liquidated damages to the purchasers of those securities in the event any shares issued or issuable pursuant to the exercise of warrants we issued in the private placement cannot be resold pursuant to our registration statement on Form S-3 filed with and declared effective by the SEC on September 2, 2005. We refer to this as a maintenance failure. For each 30-day period or portion thereof during which a maintenance failure remains uncured, we are obligated to pay each purchaser an amount in cash equal to 1% of the purchaser’s aggregate purchase price for any shares of common stock or shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants then held by the purchaser (pro rated for any period less than a month), increasing by an additional 1% with regard to each additional 30-day period or portion thereof until the maintenance failure is cured. There is no cap with respect to the total amount of these liquidated damages. The aggregate gross proceeds from our July 2005 private placement were approximately $20 million. We are required to maintain the registration statement until the earlier of the date (i) all of the securities issued in our July 2005 private placement have been resold and (ii) each purchaser can resell the securities pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, without regard to the adequate current public information, volume, manner of sale or notice filing restrictions. The amount of these liquidated damages could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, “Registration Payment Arrangement,” for further discussion. 22 Table of Contents Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our corporate headquarters are located at a single business park in San Diego, California. Important documents and records, including copies of our laboratory books and records for our product candidates, are located at our facilities and we depend on our facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as wildfires and other fires, earthquakes and extended power interruptions, which have impacted San Diego businesses in the past, and terrorist attacks, drought or flood, could significantly disrupt our operations and result in additional, unplanned expense. As a small company, we have limited capability to establish and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program and, accordingly, we do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and any natural disaster or catastrophic event could delay our research and development programs. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable insurance, we might suffer losses that exceed the coverage available under these insurance policies. In addition, we are not insured against terrorist attacks or earthquakes. Risks Related to Drug Development and Commercialization Further testing of our product candidates is required and regulatory approval may be delayed or denied, which would limit or prevent us from marketing our product candidates and significantly impair our ability to generate revenues. Human pharmaceutical products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and other approval procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Various federal and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate U.S. and foreign statutes and regulations is time-consuming and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. In addition, these requirements and processes vary widely from country to country. To varying degrees based on the regulatory plan for each product candidate, the effect of government regulation and the need for FDA and other regulatory agency approval will delay commercialization of our product candidates, impose costly procedures upon our activities, and put us at a disadvantage relative to larger companies with which we compete. There can be no assurance that FDA or other regulatory approval for any products developed by us will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Even though the FDA has confirmed the appropriateness of a Section 505(b)(2) regulatory path for ANX-530 and ANX-514, the FDA’s views may change. If the FDA requires the longer-term regulatory approval pathway associated with traditional drug development for ANX-530 and ANX-514, we may determine that the associated time and cost is not financially justifiable and, as a result, discontinue those development programs. If we discontinue the development of one or both of these product candidates, our business and stock price may suffer. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce. Delays in the commencement or completion of preclinical testing, clinical trials or regulatory activities could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues. We set goals for and make public statements regarding our estimates of the timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to any number of factors, including delays or failures in our preclinical testing and clinical trials and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process. We use our preclinical program to assess the merits of potential product candidates and future research and development activities. Delays in our preclinical program could occur for a number of reasons, including: • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs; 23 Table of Contents • failures on the part of our CROs in developing study procedures or otherwise conducting the studies on timeframes requested by us; • changes in regulatory requirements or other standards or guidance relating to preclinical testing, including testing of pharmaceutical products in animals; • a lack of availability of animals that are suitable for the types of studies we plan to conduct; and • unforeseen results of preclinical testing that require us to amend study designs or delay future preclinical testing, clinical trials and related regulatory filings. In addition, we do not know whether planned clinical trials will commence on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • identifying appropriate trial sites and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs, trial sites and clinical investigators, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs, trial sites and clinical investigators; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; • obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same indication as our product candidates and the perception that the design of a clinical trial or the proposed treatment regimen is less beneficial to patients than available alternatives; and • retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial; or • the impact that results of one clinical trial of a product candidate may have on other clinical trials for the product candidate, even if the trials involve different indications, administration methods or dosing regimens. For example, in October 2007, we announced results of our phase 2b clinical trial of CoFactor for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, which demonstrated that the CoFactor/5-FU arm did not demonstrate statistically significant improved safety in the trial’s primary endpoint. In November 2007, we announced that we would discontinue enrolling patients in our phase 3 clinical trial of CoFactor for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance relating to clinical trials may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination or renegotiate terms with CROs, trial sites and clinical investigators, all of which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. 24 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our preclinical testing and clinical trials will commence or be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, our clinical trials or preclinical testing, the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials or preclinical testing may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we are able to ultimately commercialize our product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market and established a competitive advantage. Positive results in our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not ensure that future clinical trials will be successful or that our product candidates will receive the regulatory approvals necessary for their commercialization. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that each product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Success in preclinical testing and clinical trials does not ensure that subsequent or large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Additionally, throughout clinical development, we must provide adequate assurance to the FDA and other regulatory authorities that we can consistently produce our product candidates in conformance with cGMP and other regulatory standards. For instance, CoFactor plus 5-FU failed to show improved safety in our phase 2b clinical trial of CoFactor for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer despite generating positive safety data in our phase 2 clinical trial of CoFactor for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. Clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations and regulatory authorities may disagree on what are appropriate methods for analyzing data, any of which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. For instance, with respect to our bioequivalence clinical trial of ANX-530, the FDA may perform its pharmacokinetic equivalence analysis based a patient population other than the population on which we based our analysis, which may result in the FDA determining that ANX-530 and Navelbine are not bioequivalent, requiring that we evaluate additional patients or take other remedial action. In addition, the ANX-530 bioequivalence clinical trial was open-label, meaning physician-investigators, as well as patients, may have been aware of which drug was being administered. There is a risk of investigator bias in reporting adverse events as a result of the study’s open-label nature, including bias that increased the reporting of adverse events associated with Navelbine and/or that decreased the reporting of adverse events associated with ANX-530. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and manufacturing development work and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in FDA policy for drug approval during the period of product development and FDA regulatory review of each submitted NDA. There is a significant risk that any of our product candidates could fail to show satisfactory results in clinical trials or manufacturing development, and would not justify further development. A failure to obtain requisite regulatory approvals or to obtain approvals of the scope requested will delay or preclude us from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of the products, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval do not achieve broad market acceptance (including as a result of failing to differentiate our products from competitor products or as a result of failing to obtain reimbursement rates for our products that are competitive from the healthcare provider’s perspective), the revenues we generate from their sales will be limited and our business may not be profitable. Our success will depend in substantial part on the extent to which our products for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities are accepted by the medical community and reimbursed by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including, among other things: 25 Table of Contents • limitations or warnings in a product’s approved labeling; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and efficacy of our products and our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • availability of alternative treatments; • the product’s perceived advantages over existing treatment methods (including relative convenience and ease of administration and prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects); • pricing and cost-effectiveness; • reimbursement and coverage policies of government and third-party payors; • the prevalence of off-label substitution of chemically equivalent products; and • in the U.S., the ability of GPOs (including distributors and other network providers) to sell our products to their constituencies. We cannot predict whether physicians, patients, healthcare insurers or maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any of our products. If our products are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by these parties, we may not generate sufficient revenues from these products to become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors regarding the benefits of our products may require significant resources and may never be successful. Under our Section 505(b)(2) regulatory strategy for ANX-530 and ANX-514, because we anticipate submitting Section 505(b)(2) NDAs with only pharmacokinetic clinical data, our ability to differentiate our products from competitor products will be limited unless the FDA allows us to include certain data in our products’ labels. Even if our products demonstrate clinical or pharmacoeconomic benefits, we may be unable to market our products based on these benefits. If we fail to obtain separate HCPCS codes for ANX-530, it is unlikely we will be able to sell that product at a price that exceeds its manufacturing, marketing and distribution costs. Even if we obtain separate HCPCS codes for our products, if our products are perceived to provide little or no advantage relative to competitive products or for other reasons, we may be required to price our products at levels that do not cover our costs to manufacture, market and distribute the products or provide any profit, or to price our products at levels at which they are not competitive. We do not have manufacturing capabilities and are dependent on single source manufacturers and suppliers for certain of our product candidates and their component materials, and the loss of any of these manufacturers or suppliers, or their failure to provide us with an adequate supply of products or component materials on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, could harm our business. We do not have any manufacturing capability. We rely on third-party manufacturers and component materials suppliers for the manufacture of our product candidates for clinical trial purposes and we anticipate establishing relationships with third-party manufacturers and component materials suppliers for the commercial production of our products. Currently we do not have any long-term agreements or commitments with our third-party manufacturers or component suppliers, and we cannot ensure that we will be able to establish relationships with these parties on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to establish and maintain such relationships, we expect it would have a material and adverse effect on our operations. Even if we successfully establish relationships with third-party manufacturers and component suppliers on commercially acceptable terms, our manufacturers and suppliers may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. Because many of our single source suppliers provide manufacturing services to a number of other pharmaceutical companies, our suppliers may experience capacity constraints or choose to prioritize one or more of their other customers over us. Any significant problem that our single source manufacturers or suppliers experience could delay or interrupt the supply to us of clinical trial materials or products until the manufacturer or supplier cures the problem or until we locate an alternative source of supply, if an alternative source is available, and, as a result, any such delay or interruption could materially and adversely affect our development activities and operations. 26 Table of Contents For instance, ANX-530 is an emulsified cytotoxic product that must be aseptically-filled. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers capable and willing to manufacture this type of product at the commercial scale at which we anticipate requiring in accordance with our marketing plans for ANX-530, which will make identifying and establishing short- or long-term relationships with willing manufacturers more difficult and provide them with substantial leverage over us in any negotiations. Furthermore, certain of the underlying component materials of ANX-530 are available only from a particular supplier, and currently we do not have any short- or long-term agreements for the supply of those materials. Even if we successfully establish a long-term relationship with our current contract manufacturer for ANX-530 on commercially acceptable terms, our contract manufacturer may be unable to successfully and consistently manufacture ANX-530 at commercial scale. We and this manufacturer have limited experience manufacturing ANX-530, and the experience we and this manufacturer do have is limited to manufacturing at non-commercial scales. Because data from a single clinical trial of ANX-530 may be sufficient clinical data to support a Section 505(b)(2) NDA, our and our current contract manufacturer’s ability to gain experience manufacturing ANX-530, in particular at various scales, has been limited. If our current contract manufacturer is unable to manufacture ANX-530 successfully and consistently at commercial scale and within established parameters, we may be unable to validate our manufacturing process, even if the FDA approves our NDA, and therefore unable to sell ANX-530. All manufacturers of our products and product candidates must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program, as well as applicable requirements of foreign regulatory authorities. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products and product candidates may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. While we monitor and audit our manufacturer’s systems, we have little control over our manufacturers’ ongoing compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. Furthermore, the manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing and shortages of qualified personnel. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to provide product candidates to patients in our clinical trials may be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical supplies could delay the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our research and development programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the trials completely. We cannot ensure that manufacturing or quality control problems will not arise in connection with the manufacture of our products or product candidates, or that third-party manufacturers will be able to maintain the necessary governmental licenses and approvals to continue manufacturing such products or product candidates. Any of the above factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products and product candidates may adversely affect our future costs and our ability to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. If any of our product candidates should be approved, any problems or delays experienced in their manufacturing processes may impair our ability to provide commercial quantities of the products, which would limit our ability to sell the products and would adversely affect our business. It could take significant time to redesign our manufacturing processes or identify alternative suppliers in response to problems we may encounter as we manufacture our products, if such alternative processes and suppliers are available at all. Even if we are able to identify alternative suppliers, they may be unwilling to manufacture our products on commercially reasonable terms. 27 Table of Contents Any new supplier of products or API would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing such products or ingredients. The FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical trials, collect stability data and provide additional information concerning any new supplier before we could distribute products from that supplier. Obtaining the necessary FDA approvals or other qualifications under applicable regulatory requirements and ensuring non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in a significant interruption of supply and could require the new supplier to bear significant additional costs which may be passed on to us. We rely in part on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and other aspects of our research and development programs and if those third parties do not satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations or meet anticipated deadlines, the clinical development of our product candidates could be adversely affected. We do not possess research and development facilities necessary to conduct all of the activities associated with our research and development programs. We engage consultants, advisors and CROs to design and conduct preclinical and clinical trials in connection with the research and development of our product candidates. As a result, many important aspects of our product candidates’ development are outside our direct control. In addition, there can be no assurance that such third parties will perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us or will perform those obligations satisfactorily. The CROs with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and subsequent collection and analysis of data, and we will likely depend on these and other CROs and clinical investigators to conduct our future clinical trials or assist with our on-going clinical trials. Individuals working at the CROs with which we contract, as well as clinical investigators at the sites at which our clinical trials are conducted, are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If these CROs fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our clinical trials, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our applications to regulatory agencies and the introduction of our products. Failure of these CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, these CROs may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. We currently have no sales capability and only limited marketing capability and our failure to develop these capabilities internally or contract with third parties to perform these activities successfully could delay and/or limit our ability to generate revenues in the event one or more of our product candidates obtains regulatory approval. We currently do not have sales personnel. We have limited marketing and business development personnel and only recently hired a vice president, commercialization. To commercialize our products, including ANX-530, we will have to acquire or develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or rely on marketing partners or other arrangements with third parties for the marketing, distribution and sale of our products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to establish marketing, distribution or sales capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform those activities on terms satisfactory to us, or that any internal capabilities or third party arrangements will be cost-effective. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution and associated regulatory compliance infrastructure will require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and negatively impact our product development efforts. In addition, any third parties with which we establish marketing, distribution or sales arrangements may have significant control over important aspects of the commercialization of our products, including market identification, marketing methods, pricing, composition of sales force and promotional activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to control the amount and timing of resources that any third party may devote to our products or prevent any third party from pursuing alternative technologies or products that could result in the development of products that compete with, or the withdrawal of support for, our products. 28 Table of Contents Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we may face competition from generic products, which could put downward pressure on pricing and market share and limit our ability to generate revenues. Many of the currently marketed and anticipated products against which our product candidates may compete are, or we anticipate will be, available as generics. For instance, ANX-530 will compete against Navelbine, for which generic equivalents are also available. ANX-514 will compete against Taxotere. We anticipate that ANX-514 will also compete against other formulations of docetaxel and that generic Taxotere will enter the market in July 2012. CoFactor will compete against leucovorin, a well-established generic product. Even if we obtain unique HCPCS codes for our products, the existence of generic products could make it more difficult for our branded products, including ANX-530 and ANX-514, to gain or maintain market share and could cause prices for our products to drop, each of which could adversely affect our business. We may also face competition for our products from lower priced products from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. Proposed federal legislative changes may expand consumers’ ability to import lower priced versions of our and competing products from Canada. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products that compete with our own products could negatively impact our business and prospects. Even if we receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we may rely on third parties to perform many essential services for our commercial products, including services related to the distribution, storage and transportation of our products. If we received regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we may retain third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of our products, key aspects of which would be out of our direct control, such as warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management. In this event, we would place substantial reliance on third-party providers to perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of products to their care and handling. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter natural or other disasters at their facilitates, our ability to deliver product to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. In addition, we may use third parties to perform various other services for us relating to sample accountability and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, our ability to continue to market our products could be jeopardized or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We do not currently have the internal capacity to perform these important commercial functions, and we may not be able to maintain commercial arrangements for these services on reasonable terms. If we receive regulatory approval in the United States for ANX-530 and/or ANX-514, we will likely depend on a limited number of group purchasing organizations for retail distribution of these products, and if we subsequently lose any significant GPO customer, our business could be harmed. Our U.S. commercialization strategy for our lead emulsion formulations involves marketing and selling these products to approximately eight to ten GPOs. Even if we are successful in securing relationships and sales with these entities, the subsequent loss of any one or more of these GPO customers’ accounts or a material reduction in their purchases could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may face pricing pressure from these GPO customers. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. 29 Table of Contents Even if initial regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or marketing surveillance programs. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements related to the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the product. For instance, in September 2007, amendments to the FDCA were signed into law. These amendments significantly strengthen the FDA’s regulatory authority over drugs, including new controls over the post-approval monitoring of drugs. The FDA may now require changes to approved drug labels, require post-approval clinical trials and impose distribution and use restrictions on certain drugs. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continuing regulatory review and periodic inspections. If previously unknown problems with a product are discovered, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, the FDA may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we or a contract manufacturer of ours fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend or terminate any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • impose restrictions or affirmative obligations on our or our contract manufacturer’s operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; • close the facilities of a contract manufacturer; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval in the United States, we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States, which would limit our ability to realize the full market potential of our product candidates. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S., as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. As described above, such effects include the risks that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and have an adverse effect on potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. 30 Table of Contents In addition, if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our success will depend on patents and other protection we and our licensors obtain on our product candidates and proprietary technology. Our success will depend in part on our ability and, in certain cases, our licensors’ ability to: • obtain and maintain patent protection with respect to our products; • maintain our licenses; • prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights; • maintain trade secrets; • operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others; and • obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement would otherwise occur, both in the U.S. and in foreign countries. The patent and intellectual property positions of biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. There is no guarantee that we or our licensors have or will develop or obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology we develop or have developed or that is licensed to or by us. In addition, we cannot be certain that patents issued or licensed to us will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, including by our competitors, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, patent applications in the U.S. are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors listed in any patent or patent application owned by or licensed to us were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and patent applications or that such inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. We may also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and others. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. There can be no assurance, however, that binding agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. In addition, there can be no assurance that inventions relevant to us will not be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us. 31 Table of Contents Exclusivity for our emulsion-formulation product candidates and CoFactor may be limited because of the nature of patent protection available for these candidates. While the patent applications covering our emulsion-formulation product candidates, including ANX-530 and ANX-514, and CoFactor include product claims, they cover only specific formulations of the underlying chemical entity, or API, and not the API itself. Such product claims are not as strong as claims covering new APIs, which are widely viewed as the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as they apply without regard to how the API is formulated or the method in which the API is used. A competitor may modify our formulations and obtain regulatory approval for products with the same API as our products. Such competitive products may not infringe the patents we hold covering our specific formulations of the API. In addition, the basic patents pertaining to CoFactor that we licensed from the USC issued only in the U.S. and Canada. Additional patents pertaining to CoFactor are pending outside the U.S. and Canada, but they include only method claims; that is, methods of using CoFactor for the treatment of cancer in combination with other cancer therapies. This type of patent protection is limited, since it cannot be used to prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, physicians may prescribe a competitive product that is identical to ours for off-label indications that are covered by our patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method claims, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. We have licensed several of our product candidates from third parties and, if we default on any of our obligations, we could lose rights to our product candidates. We have licensed rights to our product candidates that are important to our business, and we expect to enter into similar licenses in the future. For instance, the license agreement pursuant to which we license CoFactor permit the licensor, USC, to terminate the agreement under certain circumstances, such as our failure to use our reasonable efforts to commercialize the licensed technology or the occurrence of any other uncured breach by us. These license agreements also provide that the licensor is primarily responsible for obtaining patent protection for the technology licensed, and we are required to reimburse the licensor for the costs it incurs in performing these activities. These license agreements also require the payment of specified royalties. Any inability or failure to observe these terms or pay these costs or royalties could result in the termination of the applicable license agreement in certain cases. The termination of any license agreement could have a material and adverse effect on us. In October 2007, we announced results of our phase 2b clinical trial of CoFactor for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, which demonstrated that the CoFactor/5-FU arm did not demonstrate statistically significant improved safety in the trial’s primary endpoint. In November 2007, we announced that we would discontinue enrolling patients in our phase 3 clinical trial of CoFactor for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. In light of these events, there is no guarantee that we will be viewed by USC to be using reasonable efforts to commercialize the technology licensed from USC, which could lead USC to seek to terminate the related license agreement. The United States government and USC retain certain rights in the technologies we have licensed from USC. The technologies developed by USC were developed in part through funding provided by the U.S. government. Therefore, in addition to USC’s termination rights described above, our licenses are subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free right of the U.S. government and USC to practice the licensed technologies for research purposes and, in the case of the U.S. government, other governmental purposes on behalf of the U.S. and on behalf of any foreign government or international organization pursuant to any existing or future treaty or agreement with the U.S., but only to the extent that the government funded the research. The government also reserves the right to require us to grant sublicenses to third parties when necessary to fulfill public health and safety needs or if we do not reasonably satisfy government requirements for public use of the technology. In addition, USC has the right to use all improvements to the licensed technology for research and educational purposes. Although we are currently the only parties licensed to actively develop the technology, we cannot assure you that the government will not in the future require us to sublicense the technology. Any action by the government to force us to issue such sublicenses or development activities pursuant to its reserved rights in the technology would erode our ability to exclusively develop our products and product candidates based on the technology and could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. 32 Table of Contents Licenses of technology developed through funding provided by the U.S. government, including the USC licenses, require that licensees-in this case, us-and our affiliates and sub-licensees agree that products covered by the licenses will be manufactured substantially in the U.S. We cannot assure you that we will be able to contract for manufacturing facilities in the U.S. on favorable terms or obtain waivers of such requirement, or that such requirement will not impede our ability to license our products or product candidates to others. If we are unable to contract for manufacturing facilities in the U.S. or obtain an appropriate waiver, we risk losing our rights under the USC licenses, which could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. If we are sued for infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have an adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends on our ability and the ability of our future collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our future collaborators are or may be developing products. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our products and product candidates may give rise to claims that our products or product candidates infringe the rights of others. Because patent applications can take many years to publish and issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our products, product candidates or technologies infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products, product candidates and/or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of these patents was found to cover our products, product candidates, technologies or their uses, we or our future collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our technologies or methods unless we or they are able to obtain a license to the patent or intellectual property right. A license may not be available to us or our future collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, a patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable remedy that could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. In connection with any NDA that we file under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, we may be required to notify third parties that we have certified to the FDA that any patents listed for the approved drug in the FDA’s Orange Book publication are invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of our drug. If the third-party files a patent infringement lawsuit against us within 45 days of its receipt of notice of our certification, the FDA is automatically prevented from approving our Section 505(b)(2) NDA until, subject to certain adjustments, the earliest of 30 months, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit or a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to us. Accordingly, we may invest significant time and expense in the development of our product candidates, including ANX-530 and ANX-514, only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before our products may be commercialized. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to our products; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. 33 Table of Contents No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, technology or methods. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our field, we believe there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, technology or methods. In addition, it may be necessary for us to enforce patents under which we have rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights, which may affect our rights. There can be no assurance that our owned or licensed patents would be held valid by a court or administrative body or that an alleged infringer would be found to be infringing. The uncertainty resulting from the mere institution and continuation of any technology-related litigation or interference proceeding could have a material and adverse effect on us. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY We expect intense competition in the marketplace for all of our product candidates. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and rapidly changing. If successfully developed and approved, all of our products will likely compete with existing and new products and therapies and our competitors may succeed in commercializing products more rapidly or effectively than us, which would have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there are numerous companies with a focus in oncology and/or anti-viral therapeutics that are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases as are targeted by the products being developed by us. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition in the future as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. There is no assurance that existing products or new products developed by competitors will not be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than those we may market and sell. Competitive products may render our products and product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. For instance, numerous companies are focused on reformulating currently marketed drugs. In particular, the taxanes, the class of drugs of which Taxotere is a member, have experienced substantial commercial success, in part as a result of their effectiveness in treating a wide variety of cancers, which has generated significant interest in reformulating Taxotere and other taxanes. In addition to our approach of emulsifying docetaxel, other companies are pursuing alternative delivery vehicles, including the use of albumin nanoparticles, prodrugs, polyglutamates, analogs, co-solvents, liposomes and microspheres. Many of these or similar approaches could be applied to vinorelbine. Relative to our formulations, formulations based on one or more of these other methods may result in greater efficacy or safety, provide better drug delivery to tumor sites or otherwise increase benefits to patients and healthcare providers. In addition, there is an oral formulation of vinorelbine approved for use in the EU against which we would compete if our emulsion formulation of vinorelbine were approved for use in the EU. Likewise, Xeloda, an orally-delivered compound marketed by Roche that converts to 5-FU and may be used without leucovorin, could compete against CoFactor, if CoFactor is approved. In addition, orally-administered leucovorin, even if inferior to CoFactor in terms of safety and effectiveness, has a differentiating quality relative to CoFactor, which currently is being developed as an intravenous drug. Companies likely to have products that will compete with our product candidates have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources and are better equipped to develop, manufacture, market and distribute products. Many of these companies have extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products and have products that have been approved or are in late-stage development and operate large, well-funded research and development programs. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations are becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their inventions and are actively seeking to commercialize the technology they have developed. 34 Table of Contents We are subject to uncertainty relating to healthcare reform measures and reimbursement policies that, if not favorable to our products, could hinder or prevent our products’ commercial success. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely effect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues or achieve or maintain profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability to us of capital. If we are successful in getting FDA approval for ANX-530, we will compete with Navelbine and several generic versions of Navelbine. Our ability to commercialize ANX-530 will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. These payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement, particularly for new therapeutic products. Accordingly, even if coverage and reimbursement are provided, market acceptance of our products would be adversely affected if the amount of coverage and/or reimbursement available for the use of our products proved to be unprofitable for healthcare providers. There have been federal and state proposals to subject the pricing of healthcare goods and services, including prescription drugs, to government control and to make other changes to the U.S. healthcare system. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which became effective January 1, 2006, and mandates other reforms. While we cannot predict the full outcome of the implementation of this legislation, it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in additional government reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may make some prescription drugs more affordable but may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. It is uncertain if future legislative proposals, whether domestic or abroad, will be adopted that might affect the product candidates in our programs or what actions federal, state, or private payors for healthcare treatment and services may take in response to any such healthcare reform proposals or legislation. Any such healthcare reforms could have a material and adverse effect on the marketability of any products for which we ultimately receive FDA or other regulatory agency approval. We face potential product liability exposure and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product or product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. In the future, we anticipate that we will need to obtain additional or increased product liability insurance coverage and it is uncertain that such increased or additional insurance coverage can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Our business (in particular, the use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of our products for which we obtain marketing approval) will expose us to product liability risks. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: 35 Table of Contents • decreased demand for our products or product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our products and product candidates. We maintain limited product liability insurance for our clinical trials, but our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval of any of our product candidates, but we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance on commercially acceptable terms or may not be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential losses. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. Changes in laws and regulations that affect the governance of public companies have increased our operating expenses and may continue to do so. Recently enacted changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and AMEX listing requirements, as well as disclosure requirements related to executive and director compensation, have imposed increased duties on us and on our executives, directors, attorneys and independent accountants. In order to comply with these extensive rules, we hired additional personnel and engaged outside legal, accounting and advisory services, which in the past increased our operating expenses. We expect to continue to incur administrative expenses as we continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to extensively evaluate and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls. We have incurred significant expenses, and expect to continue to incur expenses, in connection with the evaluation, implementation, documentation and testing of our internal control systems. Management time associated with these compliance efforts necessarily reduces time available for other operating activities, which could adversely affect operating results. If we are unable to achieve full and timely compliance with these regulatory requirements, we could be required to incur additional costs and expend additional money and management time on additional remedial efforts, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock may be delisted from AMEX if we fail to maintain compliance with continued listing criteria. AMEX will normally consider suspending dealings in, or removing from the list, securities selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share if the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such stock within a reasonable time after being notified that AMEX deems such action to be appropriate under the circumstances. While AMEX does not provide bright line minimum share price standards for continued listing, we believe that a price less than $1.00 per share for a substantial period of time will be investigated. On October 1, 2007, the closing price of a share of our common stock, as reported on AMEX, was $0.55 and, through March 3, 2008, it has closed at less than $1.00. 36 Table of Contents If we are unable to comply with AMEX’s continued listing requirements, including its trading price requirements, our common stock may be suspended from trading on and/or delisted from AMEX. The delisting of our common stock from AMEX may materially impair our stockholders’ ability to buy and sell shares of our common stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for, our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could significantly impair our ability to raise capital. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. On October 1, 2007, the market price for our common stock dropped almost 80% following our announcement of the results of our phase 2b clinical trial of CoFactor for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. In addition, the market price for our common stock has historically been highly volatile, and the market for our common stock has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • changes in the regulatory status of our product candidates, including results of our clinical trials and other research and development programs; • FDA or international regulatory actions and regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events (including clinical trial results and regulatory events and actions) by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • developments concerning intellectual property rights generally or those of us or our competitors; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our products or product candidates; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or deviations in our business and the trading price of our common stock from the estimates of securities analysts; • events affecting our existing in-license agreements and any future collaborations, commercial agreements and grants; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders or pursuant to effective shelf registration statements that register shares of our common stock that may be sold by certain of our current stockholders; • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • changes in third party reimbursement policies. As evidenced by the October 1, 2007 decline, the realization of any of the foregoing could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Moreover, regulatory entities often undertake investigations of investor transactions in securities that experience volatility following an announcement of a significant event or condition. Any such litigation brought against us or investigation involving our investors could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the perception that such sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by, or the perceived possibility of sales by, us or our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. In addition, we have filed shelf and resale registration statements to register shares of our common stock that may be sold by us or certain of our stockholders, which may increase the likelihood of sales by, or the perception of an increased likelihood of sales by, us or our existing stockholders of shares of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult, which could depress our stock price. Alternatively, prohibitions on anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may restrict us from acting in the best interests of our stockholders. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our bylaws limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders and establish advance notice requirements for nomination for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholders’ meetings. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In addition, provisions of certain contracts, such as stock option agreements under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan and employment agreements with our executive officers, may have an anti-takeover effect. In particular, we agreed with our chief financial officer that, among other things, in the event of our acquisition, 50% of any unvested portion of an option we granted to him would vest upon such acquisition, with the remaining unvested portion vesting monthly over the 12 months following such acquisition. As a result, if an acquirer desired to retain the services of our chief financial officer following an acquisition, it may be required to provide additional incentives to him with additional options or other securities, which may deter or affect the terms of an acquisition or potential acquisition. In connection with a July 2005 private placement, we agreed with the investors in that transaction that we would not implement certain additional measures that would have an anti-takeover effect. As a result, under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we are prohibited from dividing our board of directors into classes and adopting or approving any “rights plan,” “poison pill” or other similar plan or device. A classified board of directors could serve to protect our stockholders against unfair treatment in takeover situations, by making it more difficult and time-consuming for a potential acquirer to take control of our board of directors. A company may also adopt a classified board of directors to ensure stability in the board of directors and thereby improve long-term planning, which may benefit stockholders. A “poison pill” or similar plan or device may encourage potential acquirers to discuss their intentions with the board of directors of a company and avoid the time, expense and distraction of a hostile take-over. Any benefit to us and our stockholders from instituting a classified board or adopting or approving a “poison pill” or similar plan or device in these and other circumstances would be unavailable unless and until we amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers and directors and the beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock and their affiliates, in aggregate, beneficially own approximately 15.6% of our outstanding common stock as of March 3, 2008. These persons, if acting together, will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholders’ approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control our management and affairs. Further, the interests of significant stockholders may be different than yours and they may support transactions that you feel are not in your best interest. This concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by delaying or preventing a change in control of our company at a premium price even if beneficial to our other stockholders. 38 Table of Contents Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, we are subject to various laws and regulations that may restrict our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Accordingly, the success of your investment in our capital stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation and there is no guarantee that our capital stock will appreciate in value. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 