D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various changing business, competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China and worldwide. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Demand for our products is sensitive to cyclical fluctuations in our industry and general economic conditions, and a reduction in demand could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our products is sensitive to cyclical fluctuations in our industry and significantly affected by general economic conditions. From the fourth quarter of 2008 through the second quarter of 2009, demand for our products decreased significantly due to the global recession, which resulted in a significant downturn in a number of our end-user markets. The performance of each of our business segments, in turn, was materially and adversely affected. Although the global economy, together with our production and sales volume, has been recovering since the second half of 2009, there is no assurance that there will not be a renewed decline in the global market for our products or the general economy. Decrease in demand for our products may have material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, diminished demand for our products may impair our ability to procure favorable payment terms from customers. To enhance our liquidity, we require our customers to m ake prepayments or deposits for purchases of alumina and primary aluminum and had a balance of approximately RMB989.7 million in prepayments and deposits as of December 31, 2009. We cannot guarantee that demand for our products will remain sufficiently strong for us to continue procuring favorable payment terms from customers. In addition, current economic conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our results of operations, make business decisions and identify risks that may affect our business. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 8 Volatility in alumina and primary aluminum prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The prices of our key products have been historically volatile and fluctuate in response to general economic conditions, supply and demand and the level of global inventories. We price our alumina and primary aluminum products by reference to international and domestic market prices, the import price of alumina and domestic supply and demand, each of which may fluctuate beyond our control. Because most of our costs are fixed, we may not be able to respond promptly to a sudden decrease in alumina or primary aluminum prices. See " - Failure to maintain optimal utilization of our production facilities will adversely affect our gross and operating margins". Any significant fluctuation in international market prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires substantial capital investments that we may be unable to fulfill. Our plans to upgrade and expand our production capacity will require capital expenditures of approximately RMB14.6 billion in 2010. See "