D. RISK FACTORS Our business and financial condition and results of operations are subject to various changing business, competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China and worldwide. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Our business is vulnerable to downturns in the general economy and industries in which we operate or which we serve. A reduction in demand could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our products depends on the general economy and level of activity and growth in the industries where we operate or serve. Development of the relevant industries is subject to various factors, including but not limited to market fluctuations of prices of commodities, general political or economic conditions, technology development, government investment plans and regulations, fluctuation in global production capacity and global and regional weather conditions, many of which are beyond our control. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions, such as those caused by the recent global financial and economic crisis, including the sovereign-debt crisis in the European Union and the continued weakness and uncertainty regarding the durability of the emerging economic recovery have adversely affected the global economy and resulted in a significant decrease in our sales volumes. If a global recession recurs, demand for our products may continue to decline. In addition, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, unemployment, consumer confidence, declining asset values, capital market volatility and liquidity issues have created difficult operating conditions for us in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Furthermore, the PRC Government has, from time to time, adjusted its monetary, fiscal and other policies and measures to manage the rate of growth of the economy or the overheating and overcapacity in certain industries or markets. As a result, the general economy in the PRC or the world or any particular industry in which we operate or which we serve may grow at a lower-than-expected rate or even experience a downturn. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it challenging for us to forecast our results of operations, make business decisions and identify risks that may affect our business. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 13 Volatility in the prices of alumina, primary aluminum, other non-ferrous metal and other commodities may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The prices of the products we produce and trade, including alumina, primary aluminum, other non-ferrous metal and coal products, have historically fluctuated and are expected to continue fluctuating in response to general economic conditions, supply and demand and the level of global inventories, which are beyond our control. We price our alumina and primary aluminum products by reference to international and domestic market prices, and domestic supply and demand, each of which may fluctuate beyond our control. Primarily as a result of the recovery of the global economy from the global financial crisis, the Australian FOB spot price of alumina and the international spot price of primary aluminum on the LME reached a high of US$440 per tonne and US$2,802 per tonne, respectively, in the first half of 2011, compared with US$390 per tonne and US$2,447 per tonne, respectively, in 2010. However, since the third quarter of 2011, demand for alumina and primary aluminum has been negatively affected by the European debt crisis. As a result, the Australian FOB spot price of alumina and the international spot price of primary aluminum on the LME have been generally decreasing and reached a low of US$308 per tonne and US$1,837 per tonne, respectively, in 2012. In 2013, demand for alumina and primary aluminum fluctuated. The Australian FOB spot price of alumina reached a high of US$351.5 and a low of US$312.5 per tonne and the international spot price of primary aluminum on the LME reached a high of US$2,123.0 per tonne and a low of US$1,694.5 per tonne in 2013. Our average external selling price of self-produced alumina and primary aluminum decreased by approximately 5.1% and 6.9%, respectively, from 2012 to 2013. Because most of our costs are fixed, we may not be able to respond promptly to a sudden decrease in alumina or primary aluminum prices. There is no assurance that there will be no further falls in prices of our key products, including alumina, primary aluminum and other non-ferrous metal, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as the profit margin of trading is based on price fluctuations in the short term, we need to make the correct prediction of the price fluctuations of the non-ferrous metal products and coal products on the markets to ensure the profit margin. If the price fluctuations on the market do not match our prediction, we may incur substantial losses. In addition, as we generate profit from the differences between the purchasing and sales prices of the non-ferrous metal products we deal in, significant fluctuations in the prices of the commodities we deal in may cause the value of the outsourced products in transit or in inventory to decline, and if the carrying value of our existing inventories exceeds the market price in the future periods, we may need to make additional provisions for our inventories' value. As a result, any significant fluctuation in international market prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires substantial capital investments that we may be unable to fulfill. 14 Our plans to upgrade and expand our production capacity will require substantial capital expenditures. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - D. Property, Plants and Equipment - Our Expansion." We may also need additional funding for debt servicing, working capital, other investments, potential acquisitions and joint ventures and other corporate requirements. As a result, we expect to incur total capital expenditures of approximately RMB9.2 billion in 2014. We may seek external financing to satisfy our capital needs if cash generated from our operations is insufficient to fund our capital expenditures or if our actual capital expenditures and investments exceed our plans. Our ability to obtain external financing at reasonable costs and on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties. Failure to obtain sufficient funding for our development plans could adversely affect our business and prospects. We incurred losses in the past and may not achieve sustained profitability in the future. Although we were profitable in 2011 and 2013, we incurred a net loss of approximately RMB8.6 billion in 2012. We may incur losses in the future and we cannot assure you that we will sustain profitability in the future. In addition, we expect that we will continue relying on, in addition to our cash flows generated from operating activities, bank and other loans as well as proceeds from equity-linked notes and bond offerings, to fund our business operations and expansions. Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets, and thus our liquidity, depend significantly on our public credit ratings. These ratings are assigned by rating agencies, which may reduce or withdraw their ratings or place us on "credit watch", which would have negative implications. A history of net losses may result in a deterioration of our credit ratings, which could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets, which in turn, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our liquidity. Our historical results may not be indicative of our future prospects. We acquired an aggregate of 70.82% of the equity interest in Ningxia Energy on January 23, 2013. Ningxia Energy is an integrated power generation company with coal mines located in Ningxia Autonomous Region. Its principal business includes conventional coal-fire power generation and renewable energy generation. After the acquisition of Ningxia Energy, we have established an energy segment in January 2013 to include (i) operations of Ningxia Energy and (ii) our other energy related operations that were formerly included in our corporate and other operating segment. In addition, in line with our development strategy to focus on the development of our core business of alumina and primary aluminum operations, where we have established leading market positions, and to reduce future capital expenditures on iron ore development, improve asset-to-debt ratio and generate expected cash flows, we disposed of 65% of the equity interest in Chalco Iron Ore to a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chinalco on December 26, 2013 pursuant to the approval of shareholders at the 2013 second extraordinary general meeting held on November 29, 2013. For details of the disposal of Chalco Iron Ore, please see "Item 4. Information on the Company - A. History and Development of the Company - Overseas Development." As a result, our historical results may not be indicative of our future prospects and result of operations. Our failure to successfully manage our business expansion, including our expansion into new areas of business, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. We have invested in business expansion in line with our development strategy through organic growth, acquisitions and joint ventures. In addition to continuing to expand our existing business lines, we may, from time to time and when we deem appropriate, expand into new industries which we believe have synergies with our existing operations. For example, we have successfully enhanced our energy-related operations through the acquisition of Ningxia Energy in 2013 and participation in joint ventures and strategic investments in coal mining since 2010. Our expansion has created, and will continue to place, substantial demand on our resources. Managing our growth and integrating the acquired businesses will require us to, among other things: 15 * comply with the laws, regulations and policies applicable to the acquired businesses, including obtaining timely approval for the construction or expansion of production and mining facilities as required under the PRC law; * maintain adequate control on our business expansion to prevent, among other things, project delays or cost overruns; * gain market acceptance for new products and services and establish relationships with new customers and suppliers; * achieve sufficient utilization of new production facilities to recover costs; * manage relationships with employees, customers and business partners during the course of our business expansion and integration of new businesses; * attract, train and motivate members of our management and qualified workforce to support successful business expansion; * access debt, equity or other capital resources to fund our business expansion, which may divert financial resources otherwise available for other purposes; * divert significant management attention and resources from our other businesses; and * strengthen our operational, financial and management controls, particularly those of our newly acquired subsidiaries, to maintain the reliability of our reporting processes. Any difficulty meeting the foregoing or similar requirements could significantly delay or otherwise constrain our ability to implement our expansion plans, or result in failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition or write-offs of acquired assets or investments, which in turn would limit our ability to increase operational efficiency, reduce marginal manufacturing costs or otherwise strengthen our market position. Failure to obtain the intended economic benefits from the business expansion could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, we may also experience mixed results from our expansion plans in the short term. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition targets, negotiate acquisitions on favorable terms, obtain necessary governmental approvals on investments, if applicable, accurately estimate the mineral resources and reserves of these acquisition targets or obtain the necessary funding to complete such acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Acquisitions may result in the incurrence and inheritance of debts and other liabilities, assumption of potential legal liabilities in respect of the acquired businesses, and incurrence of impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, if any of the acquired businesses fails to perform as we expect, we may be required to recognize a significant impairment charge, which may materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve the strategic purpose of any acquisition, the desired level of operational integration or our investment return target. Our joint ventures and strategic investment may not be successful. We may from time to time enter into joint venture arrangements to grow our business and operations. For example, since 2010, we have participated in joint ventures and strategic investment in coal mining, in line with our development strategy to diversify our product offering and partially offset our future energy costs, as well as supply a portion of the coal we consume in our operations. In addition, we acquired 70.82% of the equity interest in Ningxia Energy in January 2013, which had joint ventures or held minority interests in a number of power generation companies. 16 We have non-controlling interests in a number of joint ventures. Although we have not been materially constrained by the nature of our ownership interests, no assurance can be given that our joint venture partners will not exercise their power of veto or their controlling influence in any of our joint ventures in a way that will hinder our corporate objectives and reduce any anticipated cost savings or revenue enhancement resulting from these joint ventures. In addition, whether or not we hold majority interests or maintain operational control in such joint ventures, such arrangements necessarily involve special risks and our joint venture partners may: * have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with or opposed to ours; * exercise veto rights so as to block actions that we believe to be in our or the joint venture's best interests; * take action contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the investments; or * as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture, other agreements, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects. Failure to maintain optimal utilization of our production facilities will adversely affect our gross and operating margins. During 2012 and 2013, we expanded the production capacity by completing the construction, upgrading or remoulding of some of our alumina and primary aluminum production facilities. We expect our production capacity expansion in recent years to increase our costs of sales, in particular, depreciation and amortization costs. If we are able to maintain satisfactory facility utilization rates and increase our production output, our production capacity expansion will enable us to reduce our unit costs through economies of scale, as fixed costs will be spread over a higher volume of output units. Conversely, underutilization of our existing and newly acquired or constructed production facilities may increase our marginal production costs and prevent us from realizing the intended economic benefits of our expansion. For example, as a result of the decrease in our procurement of imported bauxite from Indonesia in response to the change in Indonesian bauxite export policy, we suspended the operations of certain alumina production facilities in our Shandong branch, Henan branch and Zhongzhou branch with an aggregate annual designed production capacity of 170,000 tonnes in 2012, which adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. Please see "- Our profitability and operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain a steady supply of raw materials at competitive prices." In addition, considering the sustained weak primary aluminum pricing environment and deterioration in primary aluminum prices in 2013 which could not be offset through decreases in our costs, we suspended the operations of certain primary aluminum production facilities in our Shandong branch, Guizhou branch, Zunyi Aluminum, Guangxi branch and Research Institute with an aggregate annual designed production capacity of 380,000 tonnes since June 2013. We also increased our external purchases of alumina and primary aluminum for trading purposes to capitalize on fluctuating market prices in 2012 and 2013 and to enhance resource planning to achieve cost savings in our production. The increase in our external purchases has reduced our utilization of certain production facilities, but has not resulted in a proportionate decrease in fixed costs such as leases and depreciation of plant, property and equipment. Given our high proportion of fixed costs, failure to maintain historical utilization rates may adversely affect our gross and operating margins. Furthermore, our primary aluminum production may be adversely affected by the administrative policies and orders implemented by the local governments to fulfill China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals. Please see "- We are subject to administrative policies and orders relating to China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals that could adversely affect our production." We may be required to record impairment charges in the future. 17 If business conditions deteriorate, long lived assets need to be reviewed for possible impairment. An impairment loss needs to be recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. We recorded impairment loss on property, plant and equipment during the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. We cannot guarantee that we will not incur increased impairment loss in the future, for various reasons including, but are not limited to, a sustained decline in our stock price, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base or a material adverse change in our relationship with significant customers. If we record significant impairment charges, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy, and our profitability may decline if energy costs rise or if our energy supplies are interrupted. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy. Although we generally expect to meet the energy requirements for our alumina refineries and primary aluminum smelters from a combination of internal and external sources, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by the following: * significant increases in electricity costs; or * curtailment of the operation of one or more refineries or smelters due to our inability to extend energy supply contracts upon their expiration. Cost of electricity is the principal production cost in our primary aluminum operations. Although our average electricity cost per kilowatt-hour, or kWh, of our primary aluminum smelters decreased by approximately 5.1% from 2012 to 2013, there is no assurance that demand for and prices of electricity will not increase in the future. If we are unable to pass on increases in energy costs to our customers, our operating margin, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, interruptions in the supply of power can result in costly production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and the waste of production in progress. A sudden loss of power, if prolonged, can cause damage to or the destruction of production equipment and facilities. In such an event, we may need to expend significant capital and resources to repair or replace the affected production equipment to restore our production capacity. Various regions across China have experienced shortages and disruptions in electrical power, especially during peak demand in the summer or during severe weather conditions. We cannot assure you that our operations will not suffer from shortages or disruptions in electrical power, any occurrence of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations consume substantial amounts of coal, and our operations may be adversely affected if we are not able to procure sufficient coal or if coal prices rise significantly. We rely heavily on coal as our energy and fuel source in our operations. As we increase our alumina refining capacity, our consumption of coal will increase accordingly. If we are not able to obtain the amount of coal needed for our production due to a shortage of coal, constraints on coal transportation or any other reason, we may be forced to reduce our production output or suspend our alumina refining operations, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have acquired equity interest in a number of coal mines, we expect to continue to rely substantially on third-party coal suppliers for the supply of coal. In addition, although our average purchase price per unit tonne of thermal coal used in our alumina production decreased by 10.6% from 2012 to 2013, there is no assurance that the price of coal will not increase in the future. If we are unable to pass on increases in coal prices to our customers or offset price increases through productivity improvements, our operating margin, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 Our business and industry may be affected by the development of alternative energy sources and climate change. Our operations consume substantial amounts of coal. Coal combustion generates significant greenhouse gas and other pollutants, and the effects of climate change resulting from global warming and increased pollution levels may provide incentives for governments to promote or invest in "green" energy technologies such as wind, solar, nuclear and biomass power plants, or to reduce their consumption of conventional energy sources such as coal. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. These regulatory mechanisms may impact our operations directly or indirectly through customers or our supply chain. We may have to increase our capital expenditures in order to comply with such revised or new legislation or regulations, and may realize changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for our products and indirectly, from changes in costs of goods sold, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we have invested in coal mining operations. We are affected by the growth of the PRC thermal power industry, which relies on coal as main source of fuel. The PRC thermal power industry may be affected by the development of alternative energy sources, climate change and global environmental factors. In particular, pursuant to China's 12th Five-Year Plan for Environmental Protection, the PRC government plans to continue to encourage the development of alternative energy sources, such as wind power, solar power, biomass and geothermal energy, from 2011 to 2015. As such, alternative energy industries may rapidly develop and gradually gain mainstream acceptance in the PRC and the rest of the world. If alternative energy technologies continue to develop and prove suitable for wide commercial application in the PRC and overseas, demand for conventional energy sources, such as coal, could be reduced, which could have a material and adverse effect on the coal mining industry and, consequently, our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to continue competing successfully in the markets in which we operate. We face competition from both domestic and international primary aluminum producers. Our principal competitors are domestic smelters, some of which are consolidating and expanding their production capacities. These smelters compete with our primary aluminum operations on the basis of cost, quality and pricing. In addition, we face increasing competition from international alumina and primary aluminum suppliers as a result of the elimination of tariffs on imports of primary aluminum and alumina into China. Increasing competition in our product markets may reduce our selling prices or sales volumes, which will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to price our products competitively, maintain or increase our current share of China's alumina and primary aluminum markets or otherwise maintain our competitiveness, our financial condition, results of operations and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our overseas expansion exposes us to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we plan to operate. We are currently undertaking a number of overseas projects, including the bauxite mining projects in Laos and Indonesia, which require significant capital investment. As we are new to these overseas markets, we cannot assure you that our overseas expansion or investments will be successful or that we will not suffer foreign exchange losses in connection with our overseas investment. For example, in 2007, we entered into a development agreement with the Queensland State Government of Australia ("Queensland State Government") to develop a bauxite and alumina project, the Aurukun Project. However, due to the change in market conditions of global aluminum industries, the Aurukun Project could no longer continue under the original framework. We engaged a series of negotiations with the Queensland State Government, but in June 2011, the Queensland State Government terminated the negotiation. As a result, we had a total impairment charge of RMB651 million of the carrying value of the capitalized development expenditures pertaining to the Aurukun Project in 2010 and 2011. In addition, operations in the overseas markets also expose us to a number of risks including expropriation and nationalization of our assets in foreign countries, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, war, or other armed conflict; natural disasters; inflation; currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies, governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments or limit the movement of funds, governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contractual rights; lack of a well-developed legal system that makes it difficult to enforce our contractual rights; and governmental activities that may result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operations. 19 Our profitability and operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain a steady supply of raw materials at competitive prices. Historically, the price for bauxite, our most important raw material for alumina production, has been volatile. We obtain bauxite for our operations from three major sources, including mines that we own or jointly operate and external suppliers. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview - Raw Materials - Alumina - Supply." The extent to which we procure bauxite from each of these sources affect the security of our supply or cost of bauxite. The supply of bauxite could be affected by various factors, including geographic conditions of bauxite mines, government policies, market prices and competition, many of which are beyond our control. We rely on overseas suppliers to obtain a substantial portion of bauxite we use for production, including Indonesia, a major source of imported bauxite of us. In May 2012, the Government of Indonesia imposed a ban on the exportation of 14 types of unprocessed minerals, including bauxite, with an exception for mining companies that plan to build local processing facilities. For mining companies with plans to build local processing facilities, the Government of Indonesia imposes a 20% export tariff on the exportation of these 14 types of minerals. In response to the change in Indonesian bauxite export policy, we reduced our procurement of bauxite from Indonesia, which resulted in a decrease in our total supply of imported bauxite. As a result, in 2012, we suspended the operations of certain alumina production facilities in our Shandong branch, Henan branch and Zhongzhou branch with an aggregate annual designed production capacity of 170,000 tonnes. In January 2014, the Government of Indonesia imposed an absolute ban on the exportation of unprocessed bauxite and nickel without any exception. Prices of imported bauxite may continue to increase as a result of such ban. In addition, as the result of the ban, since January 2014, we have not been able to export the bauxite produced by our bauxite mines in Indonesia for the use of our alumina refineries in China. If we exhaust our stockpiles and cannot find an alternative source of imported bauxite at competitive prices, our financial condition, results of operations and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our results of operations are affected by increases in the cost of other raw materials and other key inputs such as energy. If we cannot obtain a steady supply of key raw materials at competitive prices, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any transportation interruption or any material increase in our transportation costs could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations require the reliable transportation of raw materials and supplies to our refining and smelting sites and finished products to our customers. Our alumina products are mainly transported by rail or trucks and our primary aluminum products are delivered to our customers primarily by rail. There is no assurance that we can always enjoy sufficient transportation capacity or we will not experience transportation interruption in the future. Furthermore, natural disasters may cause interruption to the transportation system, which could in turn affect the transportation of our products. In addition, any changes in fuel prices or fuel supply may be unpredictable and beyond our control. There is no assurance that shortage of fuel will not occur in the future. Any surge in fuel prices or shortage of fuel supply may lead to increases in our operation and transportation costs. If we are unable to make timely deliveries due to logistical and transportation disruptions, or transfer the increased costs to our customers, our production, reputation and results of operations may be adversely affected. 20 We may not successfully develop and implement new methods and processes. A main objective of our research and development is to develop new methods and processes to improve the efficiency of our alumina refineries to increase our production yield from bauxite with low alumina-to-silica ratio. If the supply of high quality bauxite with a high alumina-to-silica ratio in China declines, our failure to develop such methods and processes and incorporate them into our production could impede our efforts to reduce unit costs and diminish our competiveness. For example, in 2012, partly due to the decline in the quality of domestically sourced bauxite, our average cost of alumina per tonne increased by approximately RMB152 from that in 2011. The bauxite reserve data in this annual report are only estimates, which may prove to be inaccurate. The bauxite reserve data on which we base our production, revenue and expenditure plans are estimates that we have developed internally and may prove inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. If these estimates are inaccurate or the indicated tonnages are not recovered, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our mining operations have limited mine lives and eventual closure of these operations will entail costs and risks regarding ongoing monitoring, rehabilitation and compliance with environmental standards. Our existing mining operations in the PRC and overseas have limited mine lives and will eventually be depleted. We need to perform certain procedures to remedy and rehabilitate the environmental and social impact that our mining operations have had on local communities and the environment. Remediation, rehabilitation, closure and removal of our facilities will incur various costs and are subject to various risks. The key costs and risks for mine closures include, but are not limited to, (i) long-term management of permanent engineered structures and acid rock drainage; (ii) closure in accordance with local or international environmental standards; (iii) orderly retrenchment of employees and the third-party contractors; and (iv) relinquishment of the site with associated permanent structures and community development infrastructure and programmes to new owners. There is no assurance that such closure of mines will be successful and without delays or additional costs, in which case we may be subject to increased costs, penalties or other administrative actions, damages to reputation, even suspension and cancellation of mining permits, the occurrence of which would cause a material and adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to discover new reserves or resources, maintain or enhance existing reserves or resources, develop new mining operations or expand our current mining operations could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Mining exploration is unpredictable in nature. The success of any mining exploration programme depends on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Due to the unpredictable and speculative nature of the mining industry, there is no assurance that any exploration programme that we are currently undertaking or may undertake in the future will result in the discovery of valuable reserves or resources. There is no assurance that reported resources can be converted into reserves. Furthermore, actual results upon production may differ from those anticipated at the time of discovery. To access additional reserves in explored areas, we will need to successfully complete development projects, including but not limited to extending existing mines and developing new mines. There are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of any new mine or an extension of an existing mine, including but not limited to (i) the availability and timing of necessary governmental approvals; (ii) the timing and cost necessary to construct mining and processing facilities; (iii) the availability and cost of labor, utilities, auxiliary materials and other supplies and the accessibility of transportation and other infrastructure; and (iv) the availability of funds to finance construction and production activities. There is no assurance that any future exploration activities or development projects will extend the life of our existing mining operations or result in any new economic mining operations and such failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a high degree of financial leverage. We have relied, and expect to continue to rely, on both short-term and long-term borrowings to fund a significant portion of our capital requirements. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately RMB73.3 billion in outstanding short-term bonds and short-term bank borrowings (including the current portion of long-term bank and other borrowings) and RMB46.3 billion in outstanding long and medium-term bonds and long-term bank and other borrowings (excluding the current portion of these borrowings). Please see Note 21 to our audited consolidated financial statements for more detailed information about our borrowings. Primarily as a result of this, we had net current liabilities of RMB33.7 billion as of December 31, 2013. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our operations, including: * making it more difficult for us to fulfill payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt, including repayment of our debt and credit facilities should we be unable to obtain extensions for any such debt or credit facilities before they mature. Please see "Item 5 - Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - B. Liquidity and Capital Resources" for maturities of our outstanding long-term borrowings; * reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; * exposing us to interest rates fluctuations on our borrowings and the risk of being unable to rollover, extend or refinance our borrowings as necessary; * potentially increasing the cost of additional financing and making it more difficult for us to conduct equity financings in the capital markets or obtain government approvals to seek additional financing; and * putting pressure on our ADS price due to concerns of our ability to repay our debt. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt depends on our ability to generate cash flows in the future or to refinance such debt. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet such obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our ADS holders. A shortage of financing could in turn impose limitations on our ability to plan for, or react effectively to, changing market conditions or to expand through organic and acquisitive growth, thereby reducing our competitiveness. We cannot assure you that future financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 22 The instruments governing our senior debt contain certain financial and other covenants that restrict our ability to pay dividends, raise further debt and take other corporate actions which may adversely affect our business. In October 2013, we completed the issuance of US$350 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.625% senior perpetual capital securities (the "Securities") through Chalco Hong Kong Investment Company Limited (the "Issuer") with guarantee by seven of our subsidiaries including Chalco HongKong Limited (the "Subsidiary Guarantors"). The indenture governing the Securities contain a number of significant financial and other covenants. Such covenants restrict, subject to certain exceptions, among other things, our and our subsidiaries' ability to create, or have outstanding, any security interest upon our or our subsidiaries' present or future undertaking, assets or revenues to secure any indebtedness which is in the form of bonds, notes , debentures, loan stock or other securities which for the time being are, or are intended to be or capable of being, quoted, listed or dealt in or traded on any stock exchange or over -the-counter or other securities market ("Relevant Indebtedness") which is issued outside the PRC, our ability to create or have any Relevant Indebtedness which is issued outside the PRC, our ability to create or have outstanding any guarantee or indemnity in respect of any Relevant Indebtedness which is issued outside the PRC and the Issuer's, Subsidiary Guarantors' and their respective subsidiaries' ability to create, or have outstanding, any security interest upon their present or future undertaking, assets or revenues to secure any Relevant Indebtedness or any guarantee or indemnity in respect of any Relevant Indebtedness or to sell or otherwise dispose of capital stock held or controlled by it in any direct or indirect subsidiary of Chalco HongKong Limited which is not a Subsidiary Guarantor. As a result of the covenants, our ability to pay dividends or other distributions on our common shares and the ADSs may be limited. These covenants also restrict our ability to raise additional fund in the future through issuing Relevant Indebtedness which is issued outside the PRC or creating or having any guarantee or indemnity in respect of any Relevant Indebtedness which is issued outside the PRC and may restrict our ability to engage in some transactions that we expect to be of benefit to us. The Securities are guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries. A breach of any of the covenants in the indenture governing the Securities could result in a redemption of the Securities at our discretion or an increase of coupon rate if we do not redeem the Securities upon a breach of such covenants . If we default under the Securities in the future, the holders may enforce their claims against the guarantors to satisfy our obligations to them. In addition, such default may result in a default and acceleration of our senior debt and the holders of our senior debt could gain ownership of the capital stock of certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries (if such capital stock is pledged for such senior debt) and/or enforce their claims against the assets of the guarantors (if guarantee is provided for such senior debt). We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China and, if we default under our senior debt, we would lose control or ownership of our assets and operations in China and there may be few or no assets remaining with which we could conduct our business or from which the claims of our other creditors could be satisfied. The interests of our controlling shareholder who exerts significant influence over us may conflict with ours. As of December 31, 2013, our largest shareholder, Chinalco, directly owned 38.56% of our issued share capital and indirectly owned an additional 2.89% of our issued share capital through its controlled entities. The interests of Chinalco may conflict or even compete with our interests and those of our public shareholders. Chinalco may take actions that are in the interest of its subsidiaries, associates and other related entities to our detriment. For example, Chinalco may seek to influence our decision as to the amount of dividends we declare and distribute. Any increase in our dividend payout would reduce funds otherwise available for reinvestment in our businesses and thus may adversely affect our future prospects and financial condition. In addition, Chinalco and a number of its subsidiaries and associates provide a range of services to us, including engineering and construction services, social services, land and property leasing as well as the supply of raw and supplemental materials. It would be difficult to find an alternative source for some services that we receive from Chinalco. Our cost of operations may increase if Chinalco, its subsidiaries and associates are unable to continue providing such services to us. 23 We are subject to, and incur costs to comply with, environmental laws and regulations. As we produce air emissions, discharge waste water, and handle hazardous substances at our bauxite mines, alumina refineries and aluminum smelters, we are subject to, and incur costs to comply with, environmental laws and regulations. Given the magnitude, complexity and continuous amendments to these laws and regulations, compliance therewith may be onerous or may involve substantial financial resources and other resources to establish efficient compliance and monitoring systems. The liabilities, costs, obligations and requirements associated with these laws and regulations may therefore be substantial and may delay the commencement of, or cause interruptions to, our operations. Non-compliance with the relevant laws and regulations applicable to our operations may even result in substantial penalties or fines, suspension or revocation of our relevant licenses or permits, termination of government contracts or suspension of our operations. Such events could impact our operating results, financial condition and reputation, all of which could adversely impact the Group's ability to be profitable and attract new customers. We were fined for breaches of environmental laws and regulations and there is no assurance that there will not be any further breaches in the future. In addition, the environmental laws and regulations in the PRC and other jurisdictions in which we operate continue to evolve. As a result, we may incur significant additional costs if relevant laws and regulations change or enforcement of existing laws and regulations becomes more rigorous. For instance, to comply with the requirement of desulphurization and denitration in China, we were requested to invest in upgrading or remoulding certain production facilities. Further, our overseas expansion projects are subject to foreign environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations, all of which may materially and adversely affect our business operations. We are subject to administrative policies and orders relating to China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals that could adversely affect our production. We are subject to administrative energy-saving and emission reduction policies and orders carried out by the central and provincial governments in accordance with China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals. In 2010 and 2011, some of our primary aluminum production facilities were subject to power rationing carried out by some provincial governments to fulfill their energy-saving and emission reduction goals. Although power rationing only slightly reduced our primary aluminum production in 2010 and 2011 and the PRC central government has denounced it as an improper means to fulfill the Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals, some or all of our primary aluminum production facilities may be subject to power rationing or other similar policies and orders from time to time in the future, which may adversely affect our production. Our business is subject to unplanned business interruptions that may adversely affect our performance. We may experience accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. Significant accidents and natural disasters may cause interruptions to our operations or result in property or environmental damage, an increase in operating expenses or loss of revenues. The occurrence of accidents, natural disasters and the resulting consequences may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance policies we carry. In accordance with customary practice in China, we do not carry any business interruption insurance or third-party liability insurance for personal injury or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations other than for our automobiles. Losses or payments incurred by us as a result of major accidents or natural disasters may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations if such losses or payments are not fully insured. 24 We have not obtained valid titles or land use rights to certain properties or land parcels that we occupy. We had not obtained valid ownership certificates to certain properties that we occupy. These properties are used primarily for production plants. As of December 31, 2013, the book value of our properties with defective titles represented approximately 10.6% of our net asset value. In addition, we had not obtained land use rights to certain land parcels, which we use primarily for our production plants. As of December 31, 2013, the book value of these land parcels represented approximately 0.7% of our net asset value. We have applied to the appropriate authorities to obtain the relevant ownership certificates. We cannot give any assurance that ownership dispute will not occur or that third parties will not assert any claims against us for compensation in respect of any use of these properties or land parcels. Our business involves inherent risks and occupational hazards, which could damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims and cause substantial costs to us. Our business involves inherent risks and occupational hazards. Under our mining operations, we engage or may engage in certain inherently risky and hazardous activities, including, among others, operations at height or on dangerous terrains, underground excavation and construction, use of heavy machinery, mining and handling of flammable and explosive materials, and we are therefore subject to risks associated with these activities, including, among others, geological catastrophes, toxic gas and liquid leakages, equipment failures, industrial accidents, fire, explosions and underground water leakages. Although we conduct geological assessments on mining conditions and adapt our mining plans to the mining conditions at each mine, we cannot assure you that adverse mining conditions will not endanger our workforce, increase our production costs, reduce our bauxite or coal output or temporarily suspend our operations. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events or conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Additionally, we are exposed to operational risks associated with industrial or engineering activities, such as maintenance problems or equipment failures. These risks and hazards may result in personal injury and fatal casualties, damage to or destruction of properties or production facilities, and pollution and other environmental damage. Any of these consequences, to the extent they are significant, could result in business interruption, possible legal liability and damage to our business reputation and corporate image. Our mines and operating facilities may be damaged by water, gas, fire or cave-ins due to unstable geological structures. Any significant accident, business disruption or safety incident could result in substantial uninsured costs and the diversion of our resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. We may be subject to product liability claims. Some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability claims relating to property damage or personal injury. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in significant damage payments and harm to our reputation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks normally associated with cross-border transactions, and our export products have been and may become subject to anti-dumping or countervailing duty proceedings. We generate revenue from exports of certain non-ferrous and ferrous metals and minerals products to foreign jurisdictions. Such foreign jurisdictions may take restrictive measures, including, among others, anti-dumping duties and other non-tariff barriers, to protect their own markets. Our sales in major overseas markets may be adversely affected by increases in or new impositions of anti-dumping duties, countervailing duties, quotas or tariffs imposed on our exports. Further increases in or new imposition of anti-dumping duties, countervailing duties, quotas or tariffs on our sales in these markets could adversely affect the exports to these regions in the future. By virtue of our transactions with parties outside the PRC, we will be subject to the risks normally associated with cross-border business transactions and activities. We will also be exposed to the risk of changes in social, legal, political and economic conditions in the foreign jurisdictions to which we export. In particular, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange controls could limit our operations and make the repatriation of profits difficult. 25 We are subject to litigation risks. In the ordinary course of business, claims involving project owners, customers, suppliers and subcontractors may be brought against us and by us in connection with our contracts. If we were found to be liable on any of the claims, we would have to incur a charge against earnings to the extent a reserve had not been established for the matter in our accounts, or to the extent the claims were not sufficiently covered by our insurance coverage. Both claims brought against us and by us, if not resolved through negotiations, are often subject to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration proceedings. Charges associated with claims brought against us and write-downs associated with claims brought by us could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Moreover, legal proceedings resulting in judgments or findings against us may harm our reputation and damage our prospects for future contract awards. We face counterparty risks. While we generally sell goods and provide services to reputable customers and evaluate the customers' credit in accordance with our internal risk management criteria, such as their credit history and likelihood of default, we have limited access to information about our customers and we may encounter difficulties in the collection of receivables in certain countries that we have less experience in our dealings. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that all of our customers will fully perform their obligations under their respective contracts with us, and the deterioration of any customers' credit or payment conditions may result in those customers defaulting on their contractual obligations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, disputes with governmental entities and other public organizations could potentially lead to contract termination if these remain unresolved or may take a considerably longer period of time to resolve than disputes with counterparties in the private sector, and payments from these entities and organizations may be delayed as a result. We may be exposed to claims in relation to the unsatisfactory performance of third-party service providers, and disputes with business partners may also adversely affect our business. We rely on third-party service providers for certain services, including but not limited to mining infrastructure construction, logistics services or warehouse management. Therefore, we are exposed to the risk that our third-party service providers may fail to perform their obligations, which may adversely affect our business operations. In addition, from time to time, we co-operate with business partners to develop our business, including acquiring strategic mining resources or businesses that complement our own business line. Furthermore, we operate certain mining projects through joint venture arrangements and may enter into further joint ventures in the future along with the expansion of our operations. We may have disputes with these business partners or joint venture partners over various aspects, such as performance of each party's obligations, scope of each party's responsibilities, product quality and logistics services. If such disputes cannot be settled in a timely manner, our financial condition and business may be adversely affected. 26 Failure to hire and retain management executives, technicians and other qualified personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. The growth of our business operations depends on the continued services of our senior management team. The industry experience, expertise and contributions of our executives and other members of our senior management are essential to our continued success. We will require an increasing number of experienced and competent executives in the future to implement our growth plans. If we were to lose the services of any of our key management members and were unable to recruit and retain personnel with equivalent qualifications at any time, the management and growth of our business could be adversely affected. Competition for qualified personnel in general is intense in the PRC and other markets where we operate. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary for us to execute our projects or to perform other corporate activities, nor can we guarantee that staff costs will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. If we fail to attract and retain personnel with suitable managerial, technical or marketing expertise or maintain an adequate labor force on a continuous basis, our business operations could be adversely affected and our future growth and expansions may be inhibited. We may not be able to detect and prevent fraud or other misconduct committed by our employees, representatives, agents, customers or other third parties. We may be exposed to fraud or other misconduct committed by our employees, representatives, agents, customers or other third parties that could subject us to litigation, financial losses and sanctions imposed by governmental authorities, as well as affect our reputation. These misconduct could include: * hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses; * intentionally concealing material facts, or failing to perform necessary due diligence procedures designed to identify potential risks, which are material to us in deciding whether to make investments or dispose of assets; * improperly using or disclosing confidential information; * engaging in improper activities such as offering bribes to counterparties in return for any type of benefits or gains; * misappropriation of funds; * conducting transactions that exceed authorized limits; * engaging in misrepresentation or fraudulent, deceptive or otherwise improper activities; * engaging in unauthorized or excessive transactions to the detriment of our customers; or * otherwise not complying with applicable laws or our internal policies and procedures. Our internal control procedures are designed to monitor our operations and ensure overall compliance. However, such internal control procedures may be unable to identify all incidents of non-compliance or suspicious transactions in a timely manner if at all. Furthermore, it is not always possible to detect and prevent fraud and other misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect such activities may not be effective. There is no assurance that fraud or other misconduct will not occur in the future. If such fraud or other misconduct does occur, it may cause negative publicity as a result, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Our operations are affected by a number of risks relating to conducting business in the PRC. As a significant majority of our assets and operations are located in the PRC, we are subject to a number of risks relating to conducting business in the PRC, including the following: * The central and local PRC government continues to exercise a substantial degree of control and influence over the aluminum industry in China and shape the structure and development of the industry through the imposition of industry policies governing major project approvals, preferential tax treatment and safety, environmental and quality regulations. If the PRC government changes its current policies or the interpretation of those policies that are currently beneficial to us, we may face pressure on profit margins and significant constraints on our ability to expand our business operations. * Although China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, control of payments of obligations denominated in foreign currencies and monetary and tax policies. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a materially adverse impact on us. * In 2005, China adopted a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. Since then the exchange rate between U.S. dollar and Renminbi has fluctuated and become increasingly unpredictable following the global financial crisis with increasing pressure on the Renminbi to appreciate. In April 2012, the PRC government took a milestone step in turning the Renminbi into a global currency by doubling the size of its trading band against the U.S. dollar, pushing through a crucial reform that further liberalizes its financial markets. The People's Bank of China further allows the Renminbi to rise or fall 2% from a mid-point every day, effective on March 17, 2014, compared with its previous 1% limit. Any appreciation of the Renminbi will affect the value of our US dollar-denominated borrowings and overseas investments, increase the prices of our export sales denominated in foreign currencies and reduce the Renminbi equivalent value of our trade and notes receivable denominated in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and operating performance may also be affected by changes in the value of currencies other than Renminbi in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. * Although the promulgation of laws and regulations covering general economic matters has increased since 1979, China has not developed an adequately comprehensive legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their lack of binding precedential nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in the PRC may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The PRC judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our present or future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. 28 The audit reports included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firms, must be registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the "PCAOB") and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the PRC and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as they relate to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors' work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections of audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit work of any auditor that was performed in China including that performed by our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditors' audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to PCAOB inspections on all of their work. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms could result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms in China, alleging that they had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. The four firms which are subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC have recently appealed the initial administrative law decision to the SEC. The sanction will not become effective until after a full appeal process is concluded and a final decision is issued by the SEC. The accounting firms can also further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. We were not and are not subject to any SEC investigations, nor are we involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, the independent registered public accounting firms that issue the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC is each affiliated to one of the four accounting firms subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC in the initial administrative law decision and we may therefore be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. On May 24, 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the Ministry of Finance of the PRC, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations in the United States and China. However, it is not clear how these recent developments could affect the SEC's final decision in the case against the five accounting firms or any subsequent appeal to courts that the accounting firms may initiate. Therefore, it is difficult to determine the final outcome of the administrative proceedings and the potential consequences thereof. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting from the NYSE or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. 29 