Risk Factors We are subject to various changing competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China as well as factors relating to the alumina and aluminum industry. These changing conditions and factors entail certain risks, which are described below. * We price our alumina and primary aluminum products by reference to international and domestic market prices, import cost of alumina, and changes in supply and demand in the domestic market. Each of these factors may fluctuate beyond our control. Historically, the international market prices for alumina and primary aluminum products have been volatile. Because most of our costs are fixed and we may not be able to respond quickly to any sudden decrease in alumina or primary aluminum prices, any significant decline in international market prices could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating performance. * Our plans to upgrade and expand our alumina and primary aluminum plants will require capital expenditures of approximately RMB16,000 million in the years 2005 and 2006. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - Property, Plants and Equipment - Our Expansion and Profit Improvement Plan." We may also need further funding for debt servicing, working capital, investments, potential acquisitions and joint ventures and other corporate requirements. We cannot assure you that cash generated from our operations will be sufficient to fund these development plans, or that our actual capital expenditures and investments will not significantly exceed our current planned amounts. If either of these conditions arises, we may have to seek external financing to satisfy our capital needs. Our ability to obtain external financing at reasonable costs is subject to a variety of uncertainties. Failure to obtain sufficient external funds for our development plans could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating performance. * Our planned expansion, cost reduction and technical improvement projects could be delayed or adversely affected by, among other things, failures to receive regulatory approvals, difficulties in obtaining sufficient financing, technical difficulties, or human or other resource constraints. Moreover, the cost of these projects may exceed those originally contemplated. Costs savings and other economic benefits expected from these projects may not materialize as a result of any such project delays, cost overruns or changes in market circumstances. Failure to obtain intended economic benefits from these projects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating performances. * Our business has grown rapidly. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems, continue to develop the management skills of our managers, and continue to train, motivate and manage our employees. Failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect our operating performance. In addition, we are in the process of establishing an overseas joint venture company to produce alumina in Brazil. We have also participated in discussions or bidding for bauxite mining projects in Australia and Vietnam to explore overseas bauxite resources. We could encounter unforeseen problems due to our unfamiliarity with local laws and regulations, or suffer foreign exchange losses in connection with overseas investments. We cannot assure you that our overseas expansion or investments will be successful. * We face competition from both domestic and international primary aluminum producers. Our principal competitors in the primary aluminum business are domestic smelters, some of which are expanding their production capacity. These smelters pose competitive challenges to our primary aluminum operations in production costs, product quality and price. We also face increasing competition from international primary aluminum suppliers as China continues to open up its aluminum industry to international trade. After China's accession to the WTO on December 11, 2001, competition from international suppliers of alumina may increase as tariff and non-tariff barriers for imported alumina are significantly reduced. The standard tariff on imports of alumina into China has been reduced from 18% as of December 31, 2001 to its current level of 8% as of December 31, 2004 following China's accession to the WTO. Intensified competition may result in reductions in our prices or sales volume and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating performance. If we are not successful in reducing our costs, we may not be able to maintain or increase our current share of China's primary aluminum market or continue to achieve profitability. 4 * Before 2004, the export of primary aluminum enjoyed a 15% tax refund. The tax refund rate has been reduced to 8% in 2004. Pursuant to the notice issued by State Administration of Taxation of the PRC dated December 22, 2004 and No. 46 notice issued by Customs General Administration of the PRC in December 2004, exports of primary aluminum are currently subject to a 5% export tax, and no export tax refund is available.] We believe the cancellation of export tax refund will affect the allocation of domestic and export sales by aluminum producers in China and may result in an increase in domestic sales. The increase in domestic sales is expected to further intensify the competition in domestic primary aluminum market, where we conduct most of our primary aluminum business. The intense competition in domestic primary aluminum market could have adverse impact on the price and margins of our primary aluminum products, as well as our market share. * Bauxite is the most important raw material for alumina production. We obtain our bauxite from three major sources, including our own mines, jointly operated mines, and other suppliers, which primarily consist of small independent mines. For information with respect to these sources, see "Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Business Operations - Alumina - Raw Materials - Bauxite." Each of these sourcing methods raises security of supply or cost issues. The average price of bauxite supplied by small independent mines in 2004 has increased by 31.2% as compared with 2003, primarily due to increasing market demand. Alumina is the most important raw material for our primary aluminum production. We source alumina internally at prices close to market price. Due to rising demand, the average market price of alumina has increased significantly from RMB2,407.7 per tonne in 2003 to RMB3,229.7 per tonne in 2004. Mainly due to the increases in material costs, the produc tion cost of our primary aluminum products increased by 26.5% from 2003 to 2004. If we are unable to obtain a steady supply of key raw materials externally and internally at a competitive price, our operating performance may be adversely affected. * The smelting of primary aluminum employs an electrolytic reduction process that requires a large and continuous supply of electricity. Interruptions of electricity supply can result in lengthy production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and waste of production in progress. In extreme cases, interruptions of electricity supply can also cause damage to or destruction of the equipment and facilities. We encountered severe shortages of electric power supply in 2003 and 2004. We do not expect any significant improvement of this situation until late 2006 when a number of national power generation projects are scheduled for completion. * Electricity cost is the principal production cost component of our primary aluminum production. All of our five smelters benefit from various policies that allow them to purchase electricity at reduced prices. However, despite such preferential treatment, our electricity prices are expected to continue to be higher than those of major international primary aluminum producers. Pursuant to a notice issued by the PRC NDRC on December 21, 2003, as a part of the macro-economic control measures, the PRC government terminated an exemption from urban public utilities surcharges levied on our smelters. In addition, our electricity costs increase due to severe shortage of electric power in recent years. In 2004, the electricity shortage led to an increase of average electricity price by approximately 10.6% compared with 2003, which in turn caused our unit production cost for primary aluminum to increase by approximately 4.1%. If any other preferential treatment policies are cancelled by the PRC government or not renewed upon expiration, or if electricity prices or charges were to increase for any reason, it would increase our unit production cost for primary aluminum and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating performance. 5 * Our alumina products are mainly delivered by rail or truck, and our primary aluminum products are transported to our customers mostly by rail. We faced significant constraints in our use of railway for products delivery in 2004 due to lack of nationwide rail transportation capability by the railroad operators. Constraints in capacity of public transportation, including railway systems, have caused an increase in our overall transportation costs. In some instances, we need to pay additional fees for express delivery as an alternative to the regular delivery method, such as transportation by truck. Such expenses amounted to RMB16.2 million in 2004. If we are unable to make on-time delivery due to transportation problems, or if the costs of transportation continue to rise, our operating performance will be significantly affected, * A main objective of our research and development projects is to develop new methods and processes to improve efficiency in the refining of bauxite with relatively low alumina-to-silica ratios. A potential decline in China's supply of bauxite with high alumina-to-silica ratios, failure to achieve technological improvements or to implement such improvements in commercial applications could impede our efforts to reduce unit production costs and to compete with major international producers. * The bauxite reserve data on which we base our production, revenue and expenditure plans are estimates we have developed internally and may be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. If these estimates are inaccurate or indicated tonnages are not recovered, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating performance. * We rely on short-term borrowings for financing needs. If we fail to achieve timely rollover, extension or refinancing of our short-term debt, we may be unable to meet our obligations in connection with debt service, accounts payable and/or other liabilities when they become due and payable. In addition, we may be exposed to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase substantially, our results of operations could be adversely affected. * Our primary sources of funding are cash generated by operating activities, prepayments and deposits from customers, short-term and long-term borrowings, and proceeds from shares offerings. In 2004, we required our long-term customers to make deposits or prepayments for purchases of alumina. The total amount of deposits and prepayments was RMB1,507.4 million as of December 31, 2004. We have relied on prepayments and deposits received from customers as a source of our liquidity. In the event that demand for alumina declines, we may not be able to require such prepayments and deposits from customers, in which case this source of liquidity would not be available to us. * Chinalco, a state-owned enterprise, currently owns 42.14% of our issued share capital and is our largest shareholder. The interests of Chinalco may conflict or even compete with our interests and the interests of our public shareholders. Chinalco may take actions that favor the interests of its subsidiaries and associates over our interests and the interests of our public shareholders. In addition, Chinalco and some of its subsidiaries and associates provide a range of services to us, including engineering and construction services, social services, land leasing and supply of raw and supplemental material. Some of the services Chinalco provides to us, such as educational and medical care services for our employees, would be difficult to obtain from other sources. Our cost of operations could increase if Chinalco were unable to perform its agreement to provide such services to us. * Chinalco has substantial financial obligations relating to the businesses, operations and personnel that it retained in the reorganization. While Chinalco generates significant operating revenues and receives government support, it may also rely on dividends received from us as a means of funding these obligations. Subject to the relevant provisions of the PRC Company Law and our articles of association, Chinalco may seek to influence the amount of dividends we pay out in order to satisfy its cash flow requirements. Any resulting increase in our dividend payout would reduce funds available for reinvestment in our businesses. 6 * Our alumina and aluminum production operations are subject to environmental protection laws and regulations in China, which impose such penalties as waste discharge fees, fines or closure of non-compliant plants. Each of our alumina and primary aluminum production plants has implemented a system to control its emissions and to oversee compliance with PRC environmental regulations. The PRC government, however, has taken steps and may take additional steps, towards more rigorous enforcement of applicable laws, and/or adoption of more stringent environmental standards. If the PRC national or local authorities enact additional regulations or enforce existing or new regulations in a more rigorous manner, we may be required to make additional environmental expenditures, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. * We may experience major accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. Significant industry-related accidents and natural disasters may cause interruptions to various parts of our operations, or could result in property or environmental damage, increase in operating expenses or loss of revenues. The occurrence of such accidents and the resulting consequences may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance policies we carry. In accordance with customary practice in China, we do not carry any business interruption insurance or third party liability insurance for personal injury or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations other than our automobiles. Losses or payments incurred may have a material adverse effect on our operating performance if such losses or payments are not fully insured. * We have restated the U.S. GAAP reconciliation of owners' equity as of December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 and net income for the year ended December 31, 2002 to properly reflect the effect under U.S. GAAP of recognition of a deferred tax asset arising from the revaluation of fixed assets and mining rights that occurred in connection with the Reorganization effective July 1, 2001. Under U.S. GAAP, the deferred tax asset should have been recorded in 2001, applying the statutory tax rate of 33% then applicable to us. We adjusted the deferred tax asset downwards in 2002, at a time when our tax rate had been reduced from 33% to 15% for certain branches by means of various tax preferences available under PRC law. Accordingly, the amount of the deferred tax asset that we recorded in 2002, reflecting the lower tax rate for certain tax preferred entities, was less than the deferred tax asset that should have been recorded under U.S. GAAP in 2001, reflecting the higher rate. Although the deferred tax asset has not been recognized, we have recorded the reversal effects of the deferred tax asset in 2001, 2002 and 2003. The restatement arises as a result of recognizing the initial deferred tax asset in 2001, and the subsequent reduction of the amount of that asset in 2002 at the time our tax preferences for certain tax preferred entities were approved by PRC tax authorities. For more detail, see "Item 5 - Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - U.S. GAAP Reconciliation - Adjustment of Deferred Tax Asset and Restatement of Owners' Equity and Net Income as Reported under U.S. GAAP." * We are also subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC, including the following: - The central and local PRC governments continue to exercise a substantial degree of control and influence over the aluminum industry in China and shape the structure and characteristics of the industry by means of policies in respect of major project approval, preferential treatments such as tax incentives, electricity pricing, and safety, environmental and quality standards. If the PRC government changes its current policies or the interpretation of those policies that are currently beneficial to us, we may face pressure on profit margins and significant constraints on our ability to expand our business operations or to maximize our profitability. - Under current PRC regulatory requirements, the construction of new alumina refineries, the expansions of primary aluminum plants and mining projects in excess of RMB500 million require PRC government approval. If any of our important projects required for our growth or cost reduction are not approved, or not approved on a timely basis, our financial condition and operating performances could be adversely affected. 7 - Substantially all of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particu lar industries or companies. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a negative effect on us. - Since 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People's Bank of China, which are set daily based on the previous day's PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars has generally been stable. Any devaluation of Renminbi, however, may adversely affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our H shares and ADSs in foreign currencies since we receive our revenues and denominate our profits in Renminbi. Our financial condition and operating performance may also be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than Renminbi in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. In particular, a devaluation of the Renminbi could increase the portion of our cash flow required to satisfy our foreign currency-denominated obligations.< /TD> - Since 1979, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in China. Despite this activity to develop the legal system, China's system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China's judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. See also "Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview," "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects," "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions - Related Party Transactions," "Item 8. Financial Information" and "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks." 