RISK FACTORS We are subject to various changing business, competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China as well as factors relating to the alumina, aluminum and aluminum fabrication industry. These changing conditions and factors entail certain risks, which are described below: * As widely reported, financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption, volatility and deterioration in recent months including, among other things: * Severely diminished liquidity and credit availability for all classes of borrowers across all markets; * Increasing doubts regarding solvency of banks, insurance companies, hedge funds and other credit and capital providers; * Increasing doubts regarding the solvency of a broad range of corporations; * Sharp reduction in the valuations of a broad range of widely-held assets and investments, as well as instruments that derive their value from such assets; * Rating downgrades of corporate debt and related instruments across a broad range of issuers, including both financial institutions and corporate issuers; * Extreme volatility and continual erosion of value of public securities markets; * Extreme volatility in currency exchange rates, and sharp erosion in commodity prices; and * Sharp increase in public debt in the United States and other countries as a variety of programs are announced and implemented by governments seeking to address the foregoing factors. As a result, demand for our products has decreased, which has affected our results of operations. * There is no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in financial and credit markets, and investor and consumer confidence in the world's major economies. Such economic conditions have had a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and the results of our operations. Since 2008, especially in the fourth quarter of 2008 when the international financial crisis posed a deepening impact on enterprises' results, major aluminum consuming sectors such as the real estate and automobile sectors have seen negative growth, followed by decreased global aluminum consumption and increase in inventories. In light of the sharp decline in aluminum prices and decreased consumption, both domestic and international aluminum producers reduced production. As of the end of December 2008, approximately 13.5% of the global aluminum production capacity was idled, while in China, approximately 24.1% of the aluminum production capacity was idled. As of the end of February 2009, only 76.5% of the global pr imary aluminum production capacity was being used. Since October 2008, we have idled 24% of our primary aluminum production capacity. Affected by the decrease in the production of primary aluminum, the demand for alumina decreased accordingly, and the global alumina manufacturers started to reduce their production in the fourth quarter of 2008. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 9.8% of the global alumina production capacity was idled, while in China, approximately 24.4% of the alumina production capacity was idled. As of the end of February 2009, only 81.5% of the global alumina production capacity was used. Since October 2008, we have idled 39% of our alumina production capacity. Some economists are predicting that the global economy could continue to experience a prolonged recession or even a depression. The current economic conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our results of operations, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. * We price our alumina and primary aluminum products by reference to international and domestic market prices, import cost of alumina and changes in supply and demand in the domestic market. Each of these factors may fluctuate beyond our control. Historically, the international market prices for alumina and primary aluminum products have been volatile. Since October, 2008, influenced by the global recession, the demand for our products has decreased, and as the result, the prices for our products have declined. Because most of our costs are fixed and we may not be able to respond quickly to any sudden decrease in alumina or primary aluminum prices, any significant fluctuation in international market prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. * Our plans to upgrade and expand our production capacity will require capital expenditures of approximately RMB13.4 billion in 2009. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - Property, Plants and Equipment - Our Expansion". We may also need further funding for debt servicing, working capital, investments, potential acquisitions and joint ventures and other corporate requirements. We cannot assure you that cash generated from our operations will be sufficient to fund these development plans, or that our actual capital expenditures and investments will not significantly exceed our current planned amounts. If either of these conditions arises, we may have to seek external financing to satisfy our capital needs. Our ability to obtain external financing at reasonable costs is subject to a variety of uncertainties. Failure to obtain sufficient external funds for our development plans could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. * Our planned expansion, cost reduction and technology improvement projects could be delayed or adversely affected by, among other things, failure to receive required regulatory approvals including relevant PRC government approvals and foreign government approvals, difficulties in obtaining sufficient financing, technical difficulties, or human and other resources constraints. Moreover, the actual costs involved in these projects may exceed those originally contemplated. Cost savings and other economic benefits expected from these projects may not materialize as a result of any project delay, cost overrun, or change in market conditions. Failure to obtain intended economic benefits from these projects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. * Our business has grown rapidly. In order to manage our growth and increased scale of operations effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems, continue to develop the managerial skills of our managers, and continue to train, motivate and manage our employees. Failure to manage our growth and expand operations effectively could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. * We signed the Aurukun project development agreement with the Queensland State Government of Australia ("Queensland Government") on March 23, 2007. We also entered into a land use agreement with various indigenous peoples in respect of the Aurukun project on March 23, 2007. The Queensland Government officially issued the Aurukun bauxite exploration permit to the Company in September 2007. We are currently preparing the feasibility report. Further, to implement our international development strategy, we through our subsidiary Chalco Hong Kong, entered into a joint venture arrangement with Malaysia Mining Company (MMC) and Saudi Arabian Binladin Group (SBG) on May 9, 2008, according to which, a joint venture will be established in Saudi Arabia and will develop and operate a primary aluminum plant with a planned annual capacity of approximately one million tonnes and a self-owned power plant with a planned capacity of 1,860MW. We expect to invest US$4.5 billion in the project and be the largest shareholder, h olding 40% of the total equity interest. We are currently preparing the feasibility report. As we are new to these overseas markets, we cannot assure you that our overseas expansion or investment will be successful or that we will not suffer foreign exchange losses in connection with our overseas investment. - 10 - * Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy. Although we generally expect to meet the energy requirements for our alumina refineries and primary aluminum smelters from internal sources and external contracts, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the following factors: * significant increases in electricity costs; and * unavailability or shortages of electrical power or other energy sources, interruption of energy supply, or curtailment of the operation of one or more refineries or smelters due to our inability to extend energy contracts upon their expirations. * Electricity cost is the principal production cost component of our primary aluminum production. During 2008, our average per kilowatt-hour, or kWh, electricity price increased by 9.7% from the prior year. Moreover, with the rapid development of the PRC economy, demand for energy including electricity has generally continued to increase. If energy costs increase but are not passed on to our customers, our operating margin, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. * The smelting of primary aluminum employs an electrolytic reduction process that requires a large and continuous supply of electricity. Interruptions of electricity supply can result in lengthy production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and waste of production in progress. There have been shortages and disruptions in electricity supply in various regions across China, especially in peak seasons, such as summer or when there are severe weather conditions. Our operations in Guizhou Province were disrupted due to power blackouts resulting from severe winter weather conditions in early 2008. In extreme cases, interruptions of electricity supply can also cause damage to or destruction of the equipment and facilities. If this occurs, our operations may be adversely affected. * We rely heavily on coal as our energy and fuel source in our production process of alumina. As we significantly increase our production capacities, our consumption of coal will increase significantly accordingly. If our coal suppliers are not able to supply the amount of coal needed for our production due to general short supply of coal or lack of available railcars for transportation or any other reason, we may be forced to reduce our production output or suspend our production, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, due to the rapid development of the PRC economy, demand for coal has generally continued to increase. During 2008, our average per ton price of coal increased by 65%. If cost of coal increases but is not passed on to our customers, our operating margin, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. * We face competition from both domestic and international primary aluminum producers. Our principal competitors in the primary aluminum business are domestic smelters, some of which are expanding their production capacities. These smelters pose competitive challenges to our primary aluminum operations in production costs, product quality and price. We also face increasing competition from international primary aluminum suppliers as China continues to open its aluminum industry to international trade. As a result of China's accession to the WTO on December 11, 2001, competition from international suppliers of alumina and primary aluminum may increase as tariff and non-tariff barriers for imported alumina and primary aluminum have been significantly reduced and may continue to be reduced. The standard tariff on imports of primary aluminum and alumina into China was reduced to nil on August 1, 2007 and January 1, 2008 respecitvely. Intensified competition may result in reductions in our selling prices or sale s volume and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not successful in reducing our costs, or if we are unable to maintain or increase our current share of China's primary aluminum market, our financial condition, results of operations and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. * Bauxite is the most important raw material for alumina production. We obtain our bauxite from three major sources, including our own mines, jointly operated mines, and other suppliers. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Business Operations - Alumina - Raw Materials - Bauxite". Each of these sourcing methods could affect the security or cost of our supply of bauxite. The price for bauxite has been volatile. Before the fourth quarter of 2008, the price of bauxite increased substantially due to the rapid expansion of alumina output in China which significantly increased the demand for bauxite. In 2008, our average cost of imported bauxite increased by 35.6% from RMB382 per tonne in 2007 to RMB518 per tonne. However, since the fourth quarter of 2008, the price of bauxite started to decline and in early 2009 it started to increase again. If we cannot obtain a steady supply of key raw materials at a competitive price, our financial condition and results of operations could be material ly adversely affected. - 11 - * Our alumina products are mainly delivered by rail or truck, and our primary aluminum products are transported to our customers mostly by rail. In 2008, our deliveries were affected by the snow storm early in the year and severe earthquakes in Sichuan Province in May. If we are unable to make on-time delivery due to logistics and transportation problems, our results of operations may be adversely affected. * A main objective of our research and development projects is to develop new methods and new processes to improve the efficiency of extracting alumina from bauxite that has relatively low alumina-to-silica ratios. If China's supply of bauxite with high alumina-to-silica ratios declines, our failure to achieve technological improvements or to implement such improvements in commercial applications could impede our efforts to reduce unit production costs and to compete with major international producers. * The bauxite reserve data on which we base our production, revenue and expenditure plans are estimates that we have developed internally and may be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. If these estimates are inaccurate or the indicated tonnages are not recovered, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. * We rely on short-term borrowings to meet part of our financing needs. The financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption, volatility and deterioration in recent months, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability for all classes of borrowers across all markets. As such, we may experience difficulty in obtaining financing in a timely manner. If we fail to achieve timely rollover, extension or refinancing of our short-term debts, we may be unable to meet our obligations in connection with debt servicing, accounts payable and/or other liabilities when they become due and payable. In addition, we may be exposed to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase substantially, our results of operations could be adversely affected. * Our primary sources of funding are cash generated by operating activities, short-term and long-term bank borrowings, proceeds from share offerings, and proceeds from short-term bond, medium-term note and long-term bond offerings. In 2008, we required our customers to make prepayments or deposits for purchases of alumina. The total amount of prepayments and deposits was approximately RMB3,957 million as of December 31, 2008. We have relied on prepayments and deposits received from customers as a source of liquidity. In the event that demand for our alumina declines significantly, we may not be able to require such prepayments and deposits from customers, in which case this source of liquidity may not be available to us. * Servicing our medium-term notes and long-term bonds may require a significant portion of our cash flow and therefore, may adversely affect our ability to expand or to continue our operations. In 2008, we issued medium-term notes totaling RMB10 billion maturing in 2011 and 2013, respectively. In addition, in 2007, we issued RMB2 billion of long-term bonds maturing in 2017. Our ability to make scheduled payments under the medium-term notes and long-term bonds depends on, among other things, our future operating results, and will require a portion of our cash flow to service our obligations under the medium-term notes and long-term bonds, which could impair our ability to expand our business. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to service our obligations under the medium-term notes and long-term bonds could affect our ability to continue our operations. * Any new products we may manufacture in the future may expose us to new risks associated with such new products. In 2008 we acquired five aluminum fabrication plants from Chinalco and China Nonferrous Metals Technology on the China Beijing Equity Exchange, which increased our annual aluminum fabrication production capacity from 100,000 tonnes to 982,000 tonnes as of December 31, 2008. Aluminum fabrication products' profit margin is generally lower than that of alumina and primary aluminum. Though expansion of our aluminum fabrication production capacity may enhance our ability to manage risks in the aluminum markets through vertical integration and our ability to compete with integrated international producers, it may also decrease our average profit margin and therefore, may adversely affect our results of operation. * We may not be able to adequately manage our expansion. We have significantly grown our business and expanded our production capacity both organically and through acquisition of subsidiaries and establishing joint ventures. In 2008, we acquired six subsidiaries and the aluminum alloy business of Pingguo Aluminum at a total initial consideration of RMB4.28 billion. We may explore further acquisition and joint venture opportunities in the future to rapidly grow our business and better compete in the market. However, any such acquisition or joint venture transaction may lead to various risks, including the change of laws and policies or their interpretation that affect the operations of the acquired businesses, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, general business risk, management risk, technology risk, market acceptance risk and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees, customers and business partners as a result of integrating new businesses. Any such transactions may require the utilization of debt, equity or other capital resources, and such use may represent a diversion of financial resources from our other businesses. Additionally, the integration of the acquired businesses diverts a great deal of management attention and dedicated staff efforts from other areas of our business. Because of the aforementioned risks and diversions of financial and human resources, these transactions may not create value for us or our shareholders. * The internal control over financial reporting of our newly acquired subsidiaries may have material weakness or deficiencies, which may require our management to devote significant attention and resources to remedy any such weakness or deficiencies. Failure to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls of our newly acquired subsidiaries could affect our consolidated financial reporting, resulting in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could negatively impact the market price of our ADSs. * We are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in property damage or personal injury. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potential significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. If that occurs, our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. * Chinalco, a state-owned enterprise and our largest shareholder, as of December 31, 2008 directly owned 38.56% of our issued share capital, and indirectly owned 41.82% of our issued share capital through its controlled entities. The interest of Chinalco may conflict or even compete with our interest and that of our public shareholders. Chinalco may take actions that favor the interest of its subsidiaries, associates and other related entities over ours and that of our public shareholders. In addition, Chinalco and some of its subsidiaries and associates provide a range of services to us, including engineering and construction services, social services, land and property leasing and supply of raw and supplemental materials. Some of the services Chinalco provides to us, such as educational and medical care services for our employees, would be difficult to obtain from other sources. Our cost of operations may increase if Chinalco becomes unable to provide such services to us. * Chinalco has substantial financial obligations relating to the businesses, operations and personnel that it retained in the reorganization. In addition, in February 2009, Chinalco announced that it would invest US$19.5 billion in Rio Tinto Plc and Rio Tinto Limited to create a pioneering strategic alliance. While Chinalco generates significant operating revenue and receives government support, it may also rely on dividends received from us as a means of funding these obligations. Subject to the relevant provisions of the PRC Company Law and our Articles of Association, Chinalco may seek to influence our decision as to the amount of dividends we pay in order to satisfy its cash flow requirements. Any increase in our dividend payout could reduce funds available for reinvestment in our businesses and thus may materially reduce our future financial strength and adversely affect our future results of operations. * Our alumina, primary aluminum production and aluminum fabrication operations are subject to environmental protection laws and regulations in China, which impose such penalties as waste discharge fees, fines or closure of non-compliant plants. Each of our production plants has implemented a system to control its emissions and to oversee its compliance with PRC environmental regulations. However, the PRC government has taken steps, and may take additional steps, towards more rigorous enforcement of applicable laws, and/or adoption of more stringent environmental standards. If the PRC national or local authorities enact additional regulations or enforce existing or new regulations in a more rigorous manner, we may be required to make additional environmental expenditures, which could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. - 12 - * We may experience major accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. Significant industry-related accidents and natural disasters may cause interruptions to various parts of our operations, or could result in property or environmental damage, increase in operating expenses or loss of revenue. The occurrence of such accidents and the resulting consequences may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance policies we carry. In accordance with customary practice in China, we do not carry any business interruption insurance or third party liability insurance for personal injury or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations other than our automobiles. Losses or payments incurred by us as a result of major accidents or natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our operating performance if such losses or payments are not fully insured. * We use complex equipment and facilities in our business operations, including heavy machinery. As a result, our business may be adversely affected due to the occurrence of typhoons, earthquakes, floods, fire, acts of terror or other natural disasters or similar events at our production plants. Our operations were affected by the snow storm in early 2008 and the severe earthquakes in Sichuan Province in May 2008. There are certain types of losses, such as losses from war, acts of terrorism and earthquakes, for which we cannot obtain insurance at a reasonable cost or at all. Should an accident, natural disaster or terrorist act occur, or should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could suffer from financial losses, as well as damage to our reputation or lose all or a portion of future revenues anticipated to be derived from the relevant facilities. Any material loss not covered by our insurance could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. * The licenses to mine bauxite in some of our bauxite mines have expired and lapsed. While we are seeking to renew those expired licenses, we may be subject to administrative fines for operating mines without a valid license, or we may be ordered to cease our mining operations at such mines until we obtain the renewed licenses. The failure to renew those expired mining licenses may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. * Our H Shares became a Hang Seng Index constituent stock on June 10, 2008, which may attract buying interest of so-called "Hang Seng Index funds" aiming to maintain investment portfolios consistent with the Hang Seng Index. We have no control of the selection of the Hang Seng Index constituent stocks and may not be able to continue to maintain our H Shares as a Hang Seng Index constituent stock. If our H shares are deselected from the Hang Seng Index, such Funds may cease investing in our H shares, and our share price may materially decline. * As of May 6, 2008, 2,500,684,890 A Shares that had previously been subject to a trading moratorium became available for trading on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. If all or a significant portion of these tradable shares are offered for sale on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, the A Share price may materially decrease due to the over-supply of the A Shares on the market. * The interests of minority shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang whose A shares are listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange may, in certain circumstances, be inconsistent with our interests and its other shareholders. Jiaozuo Wanfang must comply with a number of PRC regulations concerning the protection of the interests of its minority shareholders. For example, according to the relevant PRC laws, when shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang vote by poll on connected transactions, all connected parties must abstain from voting. If we are unable to obtain approval from the minority shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang, such transactions cannot be implemented, which may affect our overall operational efficiency. Furthermore, although our behavior towards Jiaozuo Wanfang as its controlling shareholder may be regarded as proper under the Hong Kong regulatory requirements, the minority shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang may take the view that they have been unfairly treated by us under their interpretation of the relevant PRC regulato ry requirements. As a consequence, we may be subject to legal proceedings initiated by the minority shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang in the future, for reasons that are beyond our control. Such legal proceedings could result in significant damage awards payable by us and disruption to our businesses, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. * We are also subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC, including the following: * The central and local PRC governments continue to exercise a substantial degree of control and influence over the aluminum industry in China and shape the structure and characteristics of the industry by means of policies in respect of major project approvals, preferential treatments such as tax incentives and safety, environmental and quality control. If the PRC government changes its current policies or the interpretation of those policies that are currently beneficial to us, we may face pressure on profit margins and significant constraints on our ability to expand our business operations or to maximize our profitability. * Under current PRC regulatory requirements, the construction of new alumina refineries, the expansion of primary aluminum plants and mining projects require the government approval. If any of our important projects necessary for our growth or cost reduction are not approved, or not approved in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. * A significant portion of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or compan ies. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a materially adverse impact on us. * Since 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, had been based on rates set by the People's Bank of China, or PBOC, which had been set daily based on the previous day's PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. On July 21, 2005, PBOC announced a reform of its exchange rate system and revalued the Renminbi. Under the reform, Renminbi is allowed to trade against a basket of foreign currencies. Since this announcement, the value of Renminbi has been fluctuating and it appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 5.7% as of December 31, 2006, approximately 11.9% as of December 31, 2007 and approximately 17.6% as of December 31, 2008. However, influenced by the international financial crisis, the exchange rate between U.S. dollar and Renminbi has become more unpredictable. Any appreciation of Renminbi in the future will increase the prices of our export sales denominated in foreign currencies and reduce the Renminbi equivalent value of our account receivables denominated in foreign currencies, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, any devaluation of Renminbi may adversely affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our H Shares and ADSs in foreign currencies since we receive our revenue and denominate our profits in Renminbi. Our financial condition and operating performance may also be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than Renminbi in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. In particular, a devaluation of the Renminbi could increase the portion of our cash flow required to satisfy our foreign currency-denominated obligations. - 13 - * Since 1979, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in China. Despite this activity to develop the legal system, China's system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of foreign jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China's judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. These uncertainties may create situations that are not favorable to us, which may materially adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. See also "Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview", "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects", "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions - Related Party Transactions", "Item 8. Financial Information" and "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks". 