Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are indicated by forward-looking statements. Those factors include, without limitation, those listed below and elsewhere herein. Risks Related to our Business We have a history of losses, we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and we may never become profitable. From the date we began operations in January 2000 through December 31, 2006, we have incurred operating losses of approximately $154.8 million, including operating losses of approximately $43.4 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, $34.0 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and $34.7 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. Our losses to date have resulted principally from research and development costs related to the development of our product candidates, the purchase of equipment and establishment of our facilities and general and administrative costs related to our operations. We expect to incur substantial losses in 2007 and for the foreseeable future thereafter. Among other things, in 2007 we expect to incur significant expenses in anticipation of commercialization of our Amoxicillin PULSYS product candidate. We have postponed further development of our Keflex PULSYS product candidate and our pediatric PULSYS product candidate in 2007 in order to reduce our expenses. We may also incur losses in connection with the continued sales and marketing of our 750 mg Keflex product that was approved for marketing by the FDA in May 2006. In addition, we expect to incur additional expenses as a result of other research and development costs and regulatory compliance activities. 18 Our chances for achieving profitability depend on numerous factors, including success in: • obtaining additional financing; • obtaining FDA approval for our Amoxicillin PULSYS product candidate and, if approved, successfully commercializing this product; • increasing sales of our 750 mg Keflex product; and • successfully developing, gaining FDA approval for and commercializing other product candidates. We may never become profitable. If we are unable to raise additional capital in the near term, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. Revenues we currently generate from our 750 mg Keflex product and other Keflex product sales are insufficient to cover our expenses. Our existing capital resources and revenue from expected product sales will not be sufficient for us to maintain our current operations for the next 12 months, and we will require additional capital to fund our operations beyond the second quarter of 2007. Our requirements for additional capital are substantial. We currently have no committed source of capital, although we are evaluating a number of alternatives. We cannot assure you that financing will be available to us or, if available, that it will be on favorable terms. To the extent we raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities, the issuance of those securities could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, if we obtain debt financing, we may be required to pledge all or a significant portion of our assets to secure such debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness and we may become subject to financial covenants and other terms that restrict the manner in which we can operate our business. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may need to sell assets, pursue other strategic alternatives and/or curtail significantly our development and commercialization activities, and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Even if we are able to raise capital in the near term, the amount of funds we are able to raise may not be sufficient to cover our anticipated expenses for the next twelve months and allow us to commercially launch our Amoxicillin PULSYS product should it receive FDA approval. We anticipate that we may need to raise capital on more than one occasion to meet our anticipated expenses for the next twelve months and commercially launch Amoxicillin PULSYS if it is approved by the FDA. We further anticipate that we will also need to raise additional capital in the future to allow us to continue to develop Keflex PULSYS and our other products under development. If we are unable to increase sales of our 750 mg Keflex product, our liquidity will be further adversely affected. We launched our 750 mg Keflex product in July 2006. While we have invested considerable resources in the launch of this product, to date, sales have not met our expectations. We had previously anticipated that this product would generate revenues in excess of related expenses and would contribute additional cash flow to help fund our other operations by the end of 2007. We cannot assure you that this will occur, as this product may not gain sufficient market acceptance among physicians, the medical community and patients. The extent to which this product is accepted by physicians is dependent upon a number of factors, including the recognition of the potential advantages, despite higher cost, over alternative generic dosage strengths of cephalexin and the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution capabilities. In addition, this product faces significant competition from other dosage strengths of cephalexin manufactured by generic pharmaceutical companies, as well as from other dosage strengths of Keflex marketed by us. Although there is no current 750 mg dosage strength of generic cephalexin, the product is not protected by patents and we expect to have a limited window of opportunity to market this product, should generic pharmaceutical manufacturers choose to compete with us. If our 750 mg Keflex product does not achieve greater market acceptance, our liquidity will further suffer. Even if sales of this product increase in the short-term, we expect that the amount of revenues from this product could decline significantly within a few years due to competition from generic formulations of the product. 19 Assuming we are able to obtain additional capital, our nearer term success will depend in large part on our receiving FDA approval of our Amoxicillin PULSYS product candidate, and we cannot assure you that the FDA will approve this product or, if approved, that it will be approved on a timely basis. Assuming we are able to raise additional capital in the near term, our nearer term success will depend on our obtaining FDA approval for our Amoxicillin PULSYS product candidate. We conducted our first Phase III clinical trial for adult pharyngitis in the 2005, using a 7-day duration of therapy. This study failed to achieve its desired microbiological and clinical end points. On August 10, 2006, we publicly reported results of a re-designed Phase III clinical trial for Amoxicillin PULSYS using a 10-day treatment period. On December 14, 2006, we submitted a 505(b)(2) New Drug Application to the FDA for our adult and adolescent Amoxicillin PULSYS product, based upon the data from our successfully concluded Phase III trial. On February 12, 2007, we received a “refusal to file” letter from the FDA, requesting additional information on our planned commercial manufacturing processes. In its letter, the FDA indicated that our application was not sufficiently complete in that it did not include a proposed commercial batch record or a detailed commercial process description with process parameters and in-process controls. We conducted a meeting with the FDA regarding our Amoxicillin PULSYS NDA on February 26, 2007. In that meeting, we reached agreement with the FDA on the additional information that is required for our NDA filing to be accepted. We resubmitted a 505(b)(2)NDA to the FDA for our adult and adolescent amoxicillin product on March 23, 2007. In accordance with FDA guidelines, the FDA has 60 days to preliminarily review the NDA submission and assess whether the application is acceptable for filing and substantive review. We expect to receive a filing decision in May 2007, and if accepted for filing, to receive a FDA target action date in January 2008. We cannot assure you that the FDA will accept our revised NDA for filing or, if the filing is accepted, that the FDA will approve our NDA or, if it approves the NDA, that it will do so on a timely basis. Even if our Amoxicillin PULSYS product candidate is approved by the FDA, the earliest we believe we could launch Amoxicillin PULSYS would be in early 2008. Among the many risks we face in obtaining FDA approval of our Amoxicillin PULSYS product is the risk that the FDA requires us to conduct additional large-scale clinical trials, which may delay or prevent commercialization of Amoxicillin PULSYS. Historically, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have not required placebo-controlled clinical trials for approval of the pharyngitis/tonsillitis indication but instead have relied on non-inferiority studies. In a non-inferiority study, a drug candidate is compared with an approved antibiotic treatment and it must be shown that the product candidate is not less effective than the approved treatment. All efficacy studies upon which our NDA is based were designed as non-inferiority studies after consultation with the FDA. However, more recently the FDA has required placebo-controlled trials for other indications. We cannot assure you that the FDA will not require placebo-controlled trials, or other trials involving comparator antibiotics, to demonstrate the superiority of Amoxicillin PULSYS to placebo before considering the approval of Amoxicillin PULSYS. Conducting placebo-controlled trials for antibiotics can be time consuming and expensive and can be difficult to complete. Institutional review boards may not grant approval for placebo-controlled trials because of ethical concerns about denying some participating patients access to any antibiotic therapy during the course of the trial. It may be difficult to enroll patients in placebo-controlled trials even if institutional review board approval is obtained because certain patients would receive no therapy. These factors could delay for several years or ultimately prevent commercialization of Amoxicillin PULSYS for any indications for which the FDA requires placebo-controlled trials. Our PULSYS technology is based on a finding that could ultimately prove to be incorrect, or could have limited applicability. Our PULSYS product candidates are based on our finding that bacteria exposed to antibiotics in front-loaded, rapid sequential bursts are eliminated more efficiently and effectively than those exposed to presently available treatment regimens. Ultimately, our finding may be incorrect, in which case our pulsatile drugs would not differ substantially from competing drugs and may be inferior to them. If these products are substantially identical or inferior to products already available, the market for our pulsatile drugs will be reduced or eliminated. Even if pulsatile dosing is more effective than traditional dosing, we may be unable to apply this finding successfully to a substantial number of products in the anti-infective market. Our preliminary studies indicate that pulsatile dosing may not provide superior performance for all types of antibiotics. Additionally, we have not 20 conducted any studies with anti-viral or anti-fungal medications. If we cannot apply our technology to a wide variety of antibiotics or other anti-infectives, our potential market will be substantially reduced. Our PULSYS delivery technology may not be effective, which would prevent us from commercializing products that are more effective than those of our competitors. Even if we are correct that pulsatile dosing is more effective than traditional dosing of antibiotics, our PULSYS delivery technology must be effective in humans such that the pulsatile administration of drugs are at levels that prove effective in curing infections. If our PULSYS delivery technology is not effective in delivering rapid bursts of antibiotics, or is unable to do so at an appropriate concentration and we are not able to create an alternative delivery method for pulsatile dosing that proves to be effective, we will be unable to capitalize on any advantage of our discovery. Should this occur, our pulsatile product candidates may not be more effective than the products of our competitors, which may decrease or eliminate market acceptance of our products. If a competitor produces and commercializes an antibiotic that is superior to our PULSYS antibiotics, the market for our potential products would be reduced or eliminated. We have devoted a substantial amount of our research efforts and capital to the development of pulsatile antibiotics. Competitors are developing or have developed new drugs that may compete with our pulsatile antibiotics. For example, sanofi-aventis recently launched Ketek, a drug that belongs to a new class of antibiotics known as ketolides. This antibiotic may compete against our pulsatile antibiotics in the treatment of upper respiratory tract infections. A number of pharmaceutical companies are also developing new classes of compounds, such as oxazolidinones, that may also compete against our pulsatile antibiotics. In addition, other companies are developing technologies to enhance the efficacy of antibiotics by adding new chemical entities that inhibit bacterial metabolic function. If a competitor produces and commercializes an antibiotic or method of delivery of antibiotics that provides superior safety, effectiveness or other significant advantages over our pulsatile antibiotics, the value of our pulsatile drugs would be substantially reduced. As a result, we would need to conduct substantial new research and development activities to establish new product targets, which would be costly and time consuming. In the event we are unable to establish new product targets, we will be unable to generate sources of revenue. We have not conducted an extensive third party patent infringement, invalidity and enforceability investigation on pulsatile dosing and our PULSYS technology, and we are aware of at least one issued patent covering pulsatile delivery. Our patents, prior art and infringement investigations were primarily conducted by our senior management and other employees. Although our patent counsel has consulted with management in connection with management’s intellectual property investigations, our patent counsel has not undertaken an extensive independent analysis to determine whether our pulsatile technology infringes upon any issued patents or whether our issued patents or patent applications covering pulsatile dosing could be invalidated or rendered unenforceable for any reason. We are aware of one issued patent owned by a third party that covers certain aspects of delivering drugs by use of two delayed release pulses. The patent covers a drug delivery system employing two delayed release pulses using two polymers. The claims made by this patent could be argued to cover certain aspects of our technology. However, we believe that we will be able to manufacture and market formulations of our pulsatile products without infringing any valid claims under this patent. Any reformulation of our products, if required, could be costly and time-consuming and may not be possible. We cannot assure you that a claim will not be asserted by such patent holder or any other holder of an issued patent that any of our products infringe their patent or that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, any claims would be resolved in our favor. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not valid, may result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could result in substantial damages and force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; 21 • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming and may not be possible. We have not sought patent protection for certain aspects of the technology used in our PULSYS product candidates. We have not filed for patent protection with respect to all of our specific formulations, materials (including inactive ingredients) or manufacturing process approaches that are incorporated in our PULSYS product candidates, and we may not seek such patent coverage in the future. In producing our PULSYS products, we expect to use general formulation techniques used in the industry that would be modified by us and which would, therefore, include know-how and trade secrets that we have developed. We cannot be certain that a patent would issue to cover such intellectual property, and currently, we would prefer to keep such techniques and know-how as our trade secrets. In the event a competitor is able to develop technology substantially similar to ours and patent that approach, we may be blocked from using certain of our formulations or manufacturing process approaches, which could limit our ability to develop and commercialize products. If we are unable to develop and successfully commercialize our PULSYS product candidates, we may never achieve profitability. We have not commercialized any PULSYS products or recognized any revenue from PULSYS product sales. With the exception of our Amoxicillin PULSYS product, all of our pulsatile drugs are in early stages of development with a total of only four pulsatile product candidates having been tested in Phase I/II clinical trials to date. Our Amoxicillin PULSYS product has successfully completed a Phase III clinical trial, however, we must obtain regulatory approval for our products before we are able to commercialize these products and generate revenue from their sales. We expect that we must conduct significant additional research and development activities on our other PULSYS product candidates and successfully complete preclinical, Phase I, Phase I/II or Phase II, and Phase III clinical trials before we will be able to receive final regulatory approval to commercialize these pulsatile products. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our PULSYS products, we may never generate sufficient or sustainable revenue to enable us to be profitable. If clinical trials for our products are unsuccessful or delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines. We must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans before we can obtain regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. In addition, we will also need to demonstrate through clinical trials any claims we may wish to make that our product candidates are comparable or superior to existing products. For drug products which are expected to contain active ingredients in fixed combinations that have not been previously approved by the FDA, we may also need to conduct clinical studies in order to establish the contribution of each active component to the effectiveness of the combination in an appropriately identified patient population. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. With the exception of our Amoxicillin PULSYS product candidate that has completed Phase III clinical trials, we have not completed preclinical studies and initial clinical trials (Phase I, Phase I/II or Phase II) to extrapolate proper dosage for our product candidates for Phase III clinical efficacy trials in humans. In the event we incorrectly identify a dosage as appropriate for human clinical trials, any results we receive from such trials may not properly reflect the optimal efficacy or safety of our products and may not support approval in the absence of additional clinical trials using a different dosage. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials for our products may be delayed by many factors, including: • lack of efficacy during the clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; 22 • slower than expected rate of patient recruitment; or • government or regulatory delays. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials are often not predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. Although a new product may show promising results in preclinical and initial clinical trials, it may subsequently prove unfeasible or impossible to generate sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approval. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may encounter regulatory delays or rejections as a result of many factors, including results that do not support our claims, perceived defects in the design of clinical trials and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials or a determination by the FDA that the results of our trials are inadequate to justify regulatory approval. Even if Amoxicillin PULSYS or any of our other PULSYS products are approved for commercial sale, we will not be successful if these products are not accepted by the market. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market Amoxicillin PULSYS or any of our other PULSYS product candidates, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any pharmaceutical product that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; • cost-effectiveness; • potential advantages over alternative therapies; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; and • effectiveness of our marketing and distribution capabilities and the effectiveness of such capabilities of our collaborative partners. Our products will compete with a number of products manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and manufacturers of generic drugs. Our products may also compete with new products currently under development by others. Physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community may not accept and use any product candidates that we or our collaborative partners develop. To the extent current antibiotics already successfully treat certain infections, physicians may not be inclined to prescribe our pulsatile drugs for the same indications. If our products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues or become profitable. We have limited sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities, and currently depend in large part on a third party contract sales force for the marketing of our Keflex 750 mg product. If we fail to develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or fail to enter into arrangements with third parties, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products. We have limited sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities. We currently rely in large part on a third party contract sales force provided to us by Innovex, the commercialization division of Quintiles Transnational Corporation, for sales and marketing services relating to our Keflex 750 mg product. In the event we receive FDA approval for our Amoxicillin PULSYS product candidate or any other product candidates, we will need to considerably expand our commercial capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. In order to market any of our product candidates directly, we must considerably expand our commercial infrastructure, including distribution, marketing and sales personnel. The expansion or contracting of a sales and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and defer our product development efforts. To the extent that we enter into sales and marketing arrangements with other companies, our revenues will depend on the efforts of others. These efforts may not be 23 successful. If we fail to expand sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or fail to enter into arrangements with third parties, we will experience delays in product sales and incur increased costs. We rely upon a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors, which could impact our ability to sell our Keflex products or Amoxicillin PULSYS. We rely largely upon specialty pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers to deliver Keflex to end users, including physicians, hospitals, and pharmacies. Product sales to the three major pharmaceutical wholesalers, Cardinal Health Inc., McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, represented approximately 91% of our net revenue from Keflex in 2006. There can be no assurance that our distributors and wholesalers will adequately fulfill the market demand for Keflex or, if approved for commercial sale, Amoxicillin PULSYS. Given the high concentration of sales to certain pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers, we could experience a significant loss if one of our top customers were to declare bankruptcy or otherwise become unable to pay its obligations to us. The potential success of our products and product candidates, including our 750 mg Keflex product and, if approved for marketing by the FDA, Amoxicillin PULSYS, will be dependent upon successfully pricing the products in the marketplace. While we believe that physicians make antibiotic prescribing decisions based primarily on efficacy, safety, and compliance, we also believe that, when deciding whether to prescribe a modified-release drug or its immediate release generic analog, physicians also weigh patient co-pay and patient preferences. As a result, we believe that price will be an important driver of the adoption of our products and product candidates. In addition, we believe it will be important to carefully manage against resistance from payor organizations by pricing our products in such a way as to minimize the incremental payor cost burden relative to generic analogs. Generic pricing plans, such as that being implemented by Wal-Mart, may affect the market for our products. In September 2006, Wal-Mart announced plans to offer certain generic drugs at $4 per prescription. Amoxicillin and cephalexin are on the list of drugs that Wal-Mart intends to provide at $4 per prescription. Wal-Mart has significant market presence. As a result, there can be no assurance that Wal-Mart’s generic pricing plan, and/or similar plans adopted by others, will not have a material adverse effect on the market for our products. Our products are subject to therapeutic equivalent substitution, Medicaid reimbursement and price reporting. The cost of pharmaceutical products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies and private organizations in the U.S. and other countries. In the U.S., most states have enacted legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a generic equivalent to the prescribed drug. Federal legislation requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay to state Medicaid agencies prescribed rebates on drugs to enable them to be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid programs. Federal and state governments continue to pursue efforts to reduce spending in Medicaid programs, including imposing restrictions on amounts agencies will reimburse for certain products. In addition, some states are seeking rebates in excess of the amounts required by federal law, and there are federal legislative proposals to expand current Medicaid rebates. We also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of our products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend, in part, on the availability of reimbursements from third party payers, such as health insurers, governmental health administration authorities and other organizations and the amount of rebates payable under Medicaid programs. We are dependent on our contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide us with active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. We do not maintain commercial scale manufacturing facilities. Our Keflex products are manufactured for us by Ceph International Corporation (Ceph), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Patheon’s MOVA Pharmaceutical 24 Corporation. If approved by the FDA for commercial sale, Amoxicillin PULSYS is expected to be manufactured for us by Stada Production Ireland Limited (SPI), previously known as the manufacturing division of Clonmel Healthcare Limited, a subsidiary of STADA Arzneimittel AG, pursuant to a contract manufacturing arrangement we have entered into with them. Although we believe that the active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished Keflex and Amoxicillin products could be potentially obtained from several suppliers, our applications for regulatory approval currently authorize only Ceph as our source for Keflex, and SPI is identified as our only source for amoxicillin in our Amoxicillin PULSYS NDA. In the event that Ceph and/or SPI is unable to supply the products to us in sufficient quantities on a timely basis or at a commercially reasonable price, or in the event either of them breaches their agreement with us, or if Ceph and/or SPI loses its regulatory status as an acceptable source, we would need to locate another source. A change to a supplier not previously approved or an alteration in the procedures or product provided to us by an approved supplier may require formal approval by the FDA before the product could be sold and could result in significant disruption to our business. These factors could limit our ability to sell Keflex and/or Amoxicillin PULSYS and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we obtain active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and finished products from certain specialized manufacturers for use in clinical studies. Although the antibiotics and finished products we use in our clinical studies may generally be obtained from several suppliers, the loss of a supplier could result in delays in conducting or completing our clinical trials and could delay our ability to commercialize products. Our ability to conduct clinical trials will be impaired if we fail to qualify our clinical supply manufacturing facility and we are unable to maintain relationships with current clinical supply manufacturers or enter into relationships with new manufacturers. We currently rely on several contractors to manufacture product samples for our clinical studies. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we completed construction of a manufacturing facility in Germantown, Maryland for production of clinical supplies sufficient for use through our Phase II and, in some cases, Phase III clinical trials. We currently have no plans to qualify the facility. We intend to rely on third parties to manufacture products that we intend to sell through our own commercialization and sales efforts. We believe that there are a variety of manufacturers that we may retain to produce these products. However, once we retain a manufacturing source, if we are unable to maintain our relationship with such manufacturer, qualifying a new manufacturing source will be time consuming and expensive, and may cause delays in the development of our products. Clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed due to our dependence on third parties for the conduct of such trials. We have limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials. We rely, and will continue to rely, on third parties, including contract research organizations and outside consultants, to assist us in managing and monitoring clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties may result in delays in completion of, or the failure to complete, these trials if they fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. Our success may depend on our ability to successfully attract and retain collaborative partners. For certain product candidates, we may enter into collaborative arrangements with third parties. Collaborations may be necessary in order for us to: • fund our research and development activities; • fund manufacturing by third parties; • seek and obtain regulatory approvals; and • successfully commercialize our product candidates. 25 We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into collaborative agreements with partners on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any future agreement may expose us to risks that our partner might fail to fulfill its obligations and delay commercialization of our products. We also could become involved in disputes with partners, which could lead to delays in or terminations of our development and commercialization programs and time consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. Our inability to enter into additional collaborative arrangements with other partners, or our failure to maintain such arrangements, may limit the number of product candidates we can develop and ultimately, decrease our sources of any future revenues. For a discussion of certain collaboration arrangements to which we were previously a party and which have been terminated, see the information under the caption “Collaboration Agreements” in Item 1 above. If we cannot enter into new licensing arrangements or otherwise gain access to products, our ability to develop a diverse product portfolio could be limited. A component of our business strategy may involve in-licensing or acquiring drug compounds developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories that may be marketed and developed or improved upon using our novel technologies. Competition for promising compounds can be intense and currently we have not entered into any arrangement to license or acquire any drugs from other companies. If we are not able to identify licensing or acquisition opportunities or enter into arrangements on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop a diverse portfolio of products. Any product candidate that we acquire may require significant additional research and development efforts prior to seeking regulatory approval and commercial sale, including extensive preclinical and/or clinical testing. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe, non-toxic and effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any approved products that we develop or acquire will be: manufactured or produced economically; successfully commercialized; widely accepted in the marketplace or that we will be able to recover our significant expenditures in connection with the development or acquisition of such products. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, if we acquire product candidates from third parties, we may be dependent on third parties to supply such products to us for sale. We could be materially adversely affected by the failure or inability of such suppliers to meet performance, reliability and quality standards. We could be forced to pay substantial damage awards if product liability claims that may be brought against us are successful. The use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, may expose us to liability claims and financial losses resulting from the use or sale of our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials, which we believe is adequate to cover our present activities. However, such insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims made against us. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Our executive officers and other key personnel are critical to our business and our future success depends on our ability to retain them. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our scientific and management teams, especially Edward M. Rudnic, our president and chief executive officer. In order to pursue our product development, marketing and commercialization plans, we may need to hire additional personnel with experience in clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing, marketing and business development. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the intense competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. We are not aware of any present intention of any of our key personnel to leave our company or to retire. However, although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, these employees may terminate their services upon 90 days advance notice. The loss of 26 any of our key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our research, development or business objectives and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain key man life insurance on Dr. Rudnic, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover the costs of the loss of his services and the expense of recruiting and hiring a new president and chief executive officer. Risks Related to our Industry Any inability to protect our intellectual property could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies and products in the U.S. and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate our competitive advantage. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these foreign countries. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our patent positions, involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that we cover our proprietary technologies with valid and enforceable patents or we effectively maintain such proprietary technologies as trade secrets. We will apply for patents covering both our technologies and product candidates as we deem appropriate. We may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or products in a timely fashion, or at all, and in any event, the applications we do file may be challenged and may not result in issued patents. Any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. In addition, if challenged, our patents may be declared invalid. Even if valid, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. We rely upon trade secrets protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken measures to protect our proprietary information; however, these measures may not provide adequate protection. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If we do not compete successfully in the development and commercialization of products and keep pace with rapid technological change, we will be unable to capture and sustain a meaningful market position. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. While we are not aware of any company using rapid bursts of antibiotics as a treatment method, there are numerous companies actively engaged in the research and development of anti-infectives. Our main competitors are: • Large pharmaceutical companies, such as Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Wyeth, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck, Johnson & Johnson, Roche, Schering-Plough, Novartis, sanofi-aventis, Abbott Laboratories, AstraZeneca, and Bayer, that may develop new drug compounds that render our drugs obsolete or noncompetitive. • Smaller pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and specialty pharmaceutical companies engaged in focused research and development of anti-infective drugs, such as Trimeris, Vertex, Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Gilead Sciences, Cubist, Basilea, Replidyne, InterMune, Oscient, King, Advanced Life Sciences, and others. 27 • Drug delivery companies, such as Johnson & Johnson’s Alza division, Biovail, DepoMed, Flamel Technologies, and SkyePharma, which may develop a dosing regimen that is more effective than pulsatile dosing. • Generic drug companies, such as Teva, Ranbaxy, IVAX, Sandoz and Stada, which produce low-cost versions of antibiotics that may contain the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as our PULSYS product candidates. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in: • developing products; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining approvals of products from the FDA and other regulatory agencies; and • manufacturing and marketing products. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses of products or technology. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than ours. If we experience delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, or are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals, we may be unable to commercialize any products. Our product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic government regulation. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record- keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. If our products are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. None of our PULSYS product candidates has been approved for sale in the U.S. or any foreign market. The regulatory review and approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. The actual time required for satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or the medical condition it is intended to treat. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon a manufacturer’s activities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • adversely affect the commercialization of any drugs that we or our collaborative partners develop; • impose costly procedures on us or our collaborative partners; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborative partners may attain; and • adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. Success in early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any required approvals, once obtained, may be withdrawn. Further, if we fail to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we may encounter difficulties including: • delays in clinical trials or commercialization; • product recalls or seizures; • suspension of production and/or distribution; 28 • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. We may rely on future collaborative partners to file investigational new drug applications and generally direct the regulatory approval process for some of our products. These collaborative partners may not be able to conduct clinical testing or obtain necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any product candidates. If we fail to obtain required governmental approvals, we or our collaborative partners will experience delays in, or be precluded from, marketing products developed through our research. We and our contract manufacturers also are required to comply with applicable FDA good manufacturing practice regulations. Good manufacturing practice regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the FDA. These facilities must be approved before we can use them in commercial manufacturing of our products. We or our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with the applicable good manufacturing practice requirements and other FDA regulatory requirements. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions, or be precluded from marketing our products. The manufacture and storage of pharmaceutical and chemical products is subject to environmental regulation and risk. Because of the chemical ingredients of pharmaceutical products and the nature of their manufacturing process, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation and the risk of incurring liability for damages or the costs of remedying environmental problems. We use a number of chemicals and drug substances that can be toxic to humans. These chemicals include acids, solvents and other reagents used in the normal course of our chemical and pharmaceutical analysis, and other materials, such as polymers, inactive ingredients and drug substances, used in the research, development and manufacture of drug products. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately or otherwise to comply with the conditions attached to our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked and we could be subject to criminal sanctions and/or substantial liability or could be required to suspend or modify our operations. Environmental laws and regulations can require us to undertake or pay for investigation, clean-up and monitoring of environmental contamination identified at properties that we currently own or operate or that we formerly owned or operated. Further, they can require us to undertake or pay for such actions at offsite locations where we may have sent hazardous substances for disposal. These obligations are often imposed without regard to fault. In the event we are found to have violated environmental laws or regulations, our reputation will be harmed and we may incur substantial monetary liabilities. We currently have insurance coverage that we believe is adequate to cover our present activities. However, this insurance may not be available or adequate to cover any losses arising from contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous substances. Market acceptance of our products will be limited if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. The commercial success of our products and product candidates will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, including government health administrators, managed care providers and private health insurers. We cannot assure you that third-party payors will consider our products cost-effective or provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, effective or cost-effective than existing products. Therefore, third-party payors may not approve our products for reimbursement. If third-party payors do not approve our products for reimbursement or fail to reimburse them adequately, sales will suffer as some physicians or their patients will opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, reimbursement levels may not be sufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 29 Moreover, the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our products. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals, if any government or regulatory agencies adopt these proposals, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Potential regulatory changes and the billing and reimbursement process applicable to underlying conditions may cause price erosion and reduce sales revenue for our products and our products may not be accepted by health care providers. Government and private healthcare programs currently are under financial stress due to overall medical cost increases. Federal and state governments are taking steps to ease the burden on healthcare programs in ways that could affect the pricing of pharmaceuticals. Any such federal and state laws and regulations can have a negative impact on the pricing of prescription drugs, including Medicare, Medicaid, pharmaceutical importation laws and other laws and regulations that directly or indirectly impose controls on pricing. Market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability of reimbursement by government and private third-party payors. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the healthcare system in the United States. The growth of managed care organizations (“MCOs”) (e.g., medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, hospital alliances and pharmaceutical benefit managers) has placed increase pressure on drug prices and on overall healthcare expenditures. MCOs and government and other private third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both the coverage and the level of reimbursement of drug products. Consequently, the reimbursement status of our products is highly uncertain and we cannot assure that third-party coverage will be available or that available third-party coverage or payment will be adequate. Other Risks HealthCare Ventures V, L.P., HealthCare Ventures VI, L.P., and HealthCare Ventures VII, L.P. have substantial control over our business, and the interests of the HealthCare Ventures partnerships may not be consistent with the interests of our other stockholders. HealthCare Ventures V, L.P., HealthCare Ventures VI, L.P. and HealthCare Ventures VII, L.P. currently beneficially own an aggregate of 31.5% of our outstanding common stock. James H. Cavanaugh and Harold R. Werner, members of our board of directors, are general partners of HealthCare Partners V, L.P., HealthCare Partners VI, L.P., and HealthCare Partners VII, L.P., which are the general partners of HealthCare Ventures V, L.P., HealthCare Ventures VI, L.P. and HealthCare Ventures VII, L.P., respectively. Accordingly, the HealthCare Ventures partnerships are able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, as well as over the day-to-day management of our business. The HealthCare Ventures partnerships may direct our affairs in a manner that is not consistent with the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. Selling of a large number of shares by any of our existing shareholders or management shareholders could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Furthermore, if we file a registration statement to offer additional shares of our common stock and have to include shares held by those holders, it could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we 30 could sell our common stock. As a result of private placements by us in 2005 and 2006, we currently have two outstanding shelf registration statements permitting investors in these private placements to publicly resell shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and provisions of Delaware law could discourage a takeover you may consider favorable or could cause current management to become entrenched and difficult to replace. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, or making a merger or acquisition less desirable to a potential acquirer, even when the stockholders may consider the acquisition or merger favorable. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, we are authorized to issue 25 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock, and to determine the price, privileges, and other terms of these shares. The issuance of any preferred stock with superior rights to our common stock could reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights we may grant to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict an ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party, preserving control by present owners and management and preventing you from realizing a premium on your shares. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. These provisions could affect our stock price adversely. The price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. Prior to our October 2003 initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock. The initial public offering price of our common stock was $10.00 per share. Since our initial public offering, the price of our common stock has been as high as $10.30 and as low as $0.86 per share. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be forced to pay liquidated damages if we do not maintain the effectiveness of our S-3 registration statements. In December 2006, we completed a private placement of 6,000,000 shares of common stock at a price of $3.00 per share, resulting in gross proceeds of $18.0 million. In April 2005, we completed a private placement of 6,846,735 shares of our common stock at a price of $3.98 per share and warrants to purchase a total of 2,396,357 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $4.78 per share, resulting in gross proceeds of $27.25 million. Pursuant to the terms of the registration rights agreements, we filed with the SEC shelf registration statements on Form S-3 covering resales of common stock. The registration rights agreement in each transaction provides that if a registration statement is not effective within a specified number of days of closing, or if we do not subsequently maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement, then in addition to any other rights the investor may have, we will be required to pay the investor liquidated damages in cash. The SEC declared each of our Form S-3s effective within the specified number of days of closing. However, if we fail to maintain the effectiveness of the registration statements in the future, liquidated damages could be substantial. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 31 