D. Risk Factors Due to our size and the nature of our activities, we will always be exposed to some business risks. This section discusses the material risks facing our Company. Our operations and financial performance are subject to the normal risks applicable to railroad equipment supply companies and are subject to various factors which are beyond our control. Risk areas include that our Company’s products involve detailed proprietary and engineering knowledge and specific customer adoption criteria, hence factors may exist that could cause actual results to be materially different than those anticipated by management. These may include that our Company may be unsuccessful in raising any additional capital for needs that may arise; our Company may not have sufficient capital to develop, produce and deliver new orders; customer orders that are placed may be cancelled; products may not perform as well as expected; markets may not develop as quickly as anticipated or at all; or that the productive capacity of our Company may not be large enough to handle market demand. Should one or more of these risks and uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, then actual results may vary materially from those described in forward-looking statements. These risk factors are described in more detail below. - 6 - Risks Relating to the Business The Company’s products involve detailed proprietary and engineering knowledge and specific customer adoption criteria. If the Company is not able to effectively protect its intellectual property or cater to specific customer adoption criteria, its business may suffer a material negative impact and may fail. The success of the Company will be dependent on the Company’s ability to protect and develop our technology. The Company has obtained patents for its external constant force spring pressure relief valves (each, an “EPRV”) (Patent No. 5,855,225) and a manway securement system trademarked the “Kelso Klincher®” (the “KKM”) (Patent No. US 7,104,722 B2); however, the Company does not have a patent for its Kelso Tiger Tube™ - Eduction Technology eduction tube (the “ETS”) technology. The patent for the ETS technology expired several years ago, although the Company does hold manufacturing, sale and technology rights. The Company has also obtained trademarks for its product names, particularly “Kelso Klincher®” (issued on January 29, 2013 under number 4,282,652) and has filed a trademark application for its Kelso Tiger Tube. The Company has also filed a patent application under a “Non-Publication Request” for its Bottom Outlet Valve (“BOV”) design and its Vacuum Relief Valve (“VRV”). A “Non-Publication Request” keeps the patent filing private until the patent is issued. Patent applications filed under a “Non-Publication Request” only provide protection in the U.S. and not internationally. See “Information on our Company – History and Development of our Company – Three Year History – 2013” for additional information on “Non-Publication Request”. See “Information on our Company – Business Overview – Key Products” for additional details regarding EPRVs, KKMs and ETS’. If the Company is unable to secure trademark and patent protection for our intellectual property in the future, or that protection is inadequate for future products, the business may be materially adversely affected. Further, there is no assurance that our railroad equipment products, including the Company’s EPRVs, KKMs and ETS’ or other aspects of the business do not or will not infringe upon patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Although we are not aware of any such claims, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses and diversion of management time in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may materially and adversely disrupt our business Further, the Association of American Railroads (the “AAR”) has specific adoption criteria that must be met before the Company’s products can be utilized by customers in the railroad industry. The Company has been successful in obtaining AAR approvals for its key products; however, there is no guarantee that the Company’s products will continue to meet AAR standards and adoption criteria as they evolve or that new products developed by the Company will receive AAR approval. In addition, certain customers may have specific adoption criteria beyond what is required by the AAR, and there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to cater to these specific adoption criteria. The Company’s failure to meet AAR and customer adoption criteria could have a material negative impact on the Company’s ability to obtain purchase orders and generate revenue. The Company may have insufficient capital in the future to meet production demands and continue its operations. Although the Company had a positive working capital in the amount of $10,099,390 as at December 31, 2015, the Company may, from time to time, report a working capital deficit. The Company reported a net loss and comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2015 of $2,510,826, net income and comprehensive income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 of $4,025,781, December 31, 2013 of $2,456,636. To maintain its activities, the Company may require additional funds which may be obtained either by the sale of securities or obtaining debt financing. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining such additional financing; failure to do so could result in the inability of the Company to develop new products, meet production and delivery demands and continue its operations. - 7 - The Company has a limited operating history and may not achieve its growth objectives. The Company has a limited history of earnings. The Company is subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any business enterprise which is transitioning from product development to profitable operations, including the risk that it will not achieve its growth objectives. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully complete its financing and development plans or operate profitably over the short or long term. The Company is dependent upon the good faith and expertise of management to identify, develop and operate commercially viable product lines. No assurance can be given that the Company’s efforts will result in the development of additional commercially viable product lines or that the Company’s current product lines will prove to be commercially viable in the long-term. If the Company’s efforts are unsuccessful over a prolonged period of time, the Company may have insufficient working capital to continue to meet its ongoing obligations and its ability to obtain additional financing necessary to continue operations may also be adversely affected. Even if the Company is successful in developing one or more additional product lines, there is no assurance that these product lines or its existing product lines will be profitable. Markets for the Company’s products may not develop as quickly as anticipated or at all. Markets for the Company’s products may not develop as quickly as anticipated, or at all, resulting in the Company being unable to meet its revenue and production targets. This may have a material negative impact on the Company, particularly if the Company has incurred significant expenses to cater to increased market demand and such market demand does not materialize. Competition may affect the Company’s ability to acquire additional market share or to maintain revenue at current and projected levels. Although the Company has patents, trademarks and other protections in place to protect the proprietary technology on which the Company’s business is dependent, competitive products may be developed in the future. Competition could adversely affect the Company’s ability to acquire additional market share or to maintain revenue at current and projected levels. Customer orders that are placed may be cancelled. Although the Company makes efforts to ensure customers are satisfied with the Company’s products, there is a risk that customers may cancel purchase orders before they are filled. This may have a material negative impact on the Company, particularly if the Company has already ordered the component parts required to assemble the finished products for that order or if the Company has assembled the required finished products. The negative impact may be mitigated by the Company’s ability to utilize the component parts and finished products to satisfy other purchase orders, but there is no guarantee that the Company will able to mitigate the risk of loss to the Company from cancelled orders in this manner. The Company is dependent on a limited number of customers. Although the Company is optimistic about its future as a railroad equipment supplier, the Company is dependent upon a limited number of customers for a significant portion of its revenue. In particular, the Company is dependent on four major corporations as customers. The sales to these four customers (Customer A, B, C and Customer D) exceeded 10% of the Company’s revenues during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. During the year ended December 31,2015 the Company had $18,910,122 of revenues of which sales of $8,555,088 were from Customer A, sales of $2,045,215were from Customer B, sales of $3,196,253 were from Customer C abd sales of $1,959,883 were from Customer D. During the year ended December 31, 2014 the Company had $ $23,816,809 of revenue of which sales of $14,997,197 were from Customer A and sales of $3,180,348 were from Customer B. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company had $13,131,387 of revenue of which sales of $8,782,478 were from Customer A and sales of $3,409,289 were from Customer B. Although Customers A, B, C, and D have displayed a pattern of consistent timely payment of accounts owing, there is no guarantee that sales to these customers will continue at current levels or that these customers will continue to satisfy their payment obligations to the Company in a timely manner. The Company does not have any formal agreements for long term, large-scale purchase orders with these customers and only sells to them based on purchase orders received. The Company expects that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a substantial portion of its sales for the foreseeable future. The loss of any of these customers could have a material negative impact upon the Company and its results of operations. - 8 - Products may not perform as well as expected. There is a risk that the Company’s products may not perform as well as expected, which may result in customer complaints, returned products, product recalls and/or loss of repeat customers. Any one of these effects may have a material negative impact on the Company’s ability to generate revenue and continue operations. The Company maintains product liability insurance and commercial general liability insurance at levels which the Company believes are adequate based on the Company’s customer base and revenue from product sales. However, the amount of the Company’s insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover future products claims. In 2015, the Company’s product liability insurance premiums were $338,719 for up to $2,000,000 of aggregate product liability insurance coverage and up to $1,000,000 of coverage per incident. In 2015, the Company’s commercial general liability insurance premiums were $94,975 for up to $2,000,000 aggregate coverage and $1,000,000 of coverage per incident. There may be a shortage of parts and raw materials. The Company currently has approximately three to five suppliers in the United States for each of the component parts and raw materials required to assemble the Company’s finished products. There is a risk that the Company may face a shortage of parts and raw materials in the future if the Company’s suppliers are unable to support current or increased customer demand for the Company’s products. This could have a material negative impact on the Company, its revenues and continued operations. The productive capacity of the Company may not be large enough to handle market demand. The Company’s current production facilities may not be large enough to handle market demand for the Company’s products if market demand is beyond projected levels. The Company may not have sufficient capital to fund increased production at its existing facilities or to add new production facilities, and even if the Company did have sufficient funds for these purposes, the turnaround time to increase production may not be fast enough to meet market demand. This may have a material negative impact on the Company’s ability to maintain existing customers and expand its customer base, and its ability to generate revenue at current and projected levels. The Company’s research and development efforts may not result in commercially viable products. The Company’s efforts to research and develop new products for the railroad industry and to develop applications for the Company’s products in other industries, such as the trucking industry, may not result in commercially viable products or applications. This may have a negative impact on the Company as its current products may cease to be best-available technology and the Company would not have a replacement or alternative product offering. Also, this may result in the Company’s investment into such research and development being a loss. The Company may face uninsurable or underinsured risks. In the course of development and production of railroad equipment products, certain risks, and in particular, destruction of production facilities by a natural disaster, acts of terrorism, acts of war or patent infringement may occur. It is not always possible to fully insure against such risks and the Company may decide not to take out insurance against such risks as a result of high premiums or other reasons. Should such liabilities arise, they could reduce or eliminate any future profitability and result in increasing costs and a decline in the value of the securities of the Company. Of the above listed risks only an act of war is truly uninsurable. The Company maintains commercial general liability insurance for claims up to $2,000,000 in aggregate and $1,000,000 per incident, as well as product liability insurance for claims up to $2,000,000 in aggregate and $1,000,000 per incident. Although the Company believes that the insurance policies currently in place adequately insure the Company given the size of its customer base and revenues from product sales, there is a risk that the Company’s insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover future products claims. - 9 - The raw materials used by the Company for its products are subject to price fluctuations. Many of the materials used in our Company’s products are commodity raw materials such as steel and rubber. These raw materials can be subject to significant price fluctuations. A steep rise in the price of such raw materials may have an adverse effect on the pricing of our products and our operating results. As our Company does not have any purchase agreements with customers, we are able to mitigate the risks associated with price fluctuations in our raw materials by adjusting the pricing of our products accordingly. However, there is no guarantee that customers will continue to purchase our products if prices are adjusted due to the fluctuation in the price of raw materials. Risks Relating to Management The success of the Company’s business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of its senior executives, and its business may be severely disrupted if the Company loses their services. The future success of the Company heavily depends upon the continued services of its senior executives and other key employees. In particular, the Company relies on the expertise and experience of its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) and Managing Director Corporate Development and of the CEO of Kelso Technologies (U.S.A.) Inc. (“Kelso USA”) and Kelso Innovative Solutions Inc. (“Kelso Innovative”). The Company relies on the industry expertise and experience of its senior executives, and their working relationships with the Company’s employees, customers and relevant regulatory authorities. If one or more of the Company’s senior executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, the Company might not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of the Company’s senior executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, the Company may lose clients, suppliers, key professionals, technical know-how and staff members. Because executive management is free to devote time to other ventures, shareholders may not agree with their allocation of time. The Company’s executive officers and directors devote the majority of their time to the management and operation of the Company’s business. Management is not however, contractually required to manage or direct the Company as their sole and exclusive function and they may have other business interests and engage in other activities in addition to those relating to the Company. This includes rendering advice or services of any kind to and creating or managing other businesses, including other businesses in the railroad industry. The Company’s executive officers and directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and to disclose any interests, which they may have in any project or opportunity of the Company. If a conflict of interest arises, at a meeting of the board of directors of our Company (the “Board”), any director with a conflict is required to disclose their interest in the matter and to abstain from voting on such matter. The board of directors may change the Company’s operating policies and strategies without prior notice to shareholders or shareholder approval and such changes could harm the Company’s business and results of operations, and the value of the Common Shares. The Board has the authority to modify or waive certain of the Company’s current operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without shareholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to the Company’s current operating policies and strategies would have on the Company’s business, operating results and value of the Common Shares. However, such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or otherwise. The Articles of the Company contain provisions indemnifying its officers and directors against eligible penalties. The Articles of the Company contain provisions with respect to the indemnification of our officers and directors against all eligible penalties, being a judgment, penalty or fine awarded or imposed in, or an amount paid in settlement of, an eligible proceeding. An eligible proceeding means a legal proceeding or investigative action, whether current, pending, threatened or completed, in which a director, former director or alternate director of the Company (each, an “eligible party”) or any of the heirs and legal personal representatives of the eligible party, by reason of the eligible party being or having been a director or alternate director of the Company: is or may be joined as a party; or is or may be liable for or in respect of a judgment, penalty or fine in, or expenses related to, the proceeding. - 10 - Since many of the Company’s officers and directors are located in Canada, it may be difficult to enforce any United States judgment for claims brought against the Company’s officers and directors. The Company has been organized under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. Although the Company’s assets are located in the United States, many of the Company’s officers and directors are residents of Canada. While a cross border treaty exists between the United States and Canada relating to the enforcement of foreign judgments, the process of such is cumbersome and in some cases has prevented the enforcement of judgments. As a result, while actions may be brought in Canada, it may be impossible to effect service of process within the United States on the Company’s officers and directors or to enforce against these persons any judgments in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under United States federal securities laws. In addition, a Canadian court may not permit an original action in Canada or enforce in Canada a judgment of a United States court based on civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws. The Company’s business reputation and relationship with customers and suppliers may be negatively impacted by the actions of former directors and officers of the Company. In April 2010, a new management team was appointed by the Company. The Company believes that the new management team has improved the Company’s business reputation and gained the confidence of the railroad and investment community by making deliveries on time and satisfying payment obligations on time, which was not always the case before the Company’s current management came on board. Although the Company and its current management team strive to make deliveries and payments on time and to operate the business of the Company in a manner which maintains the Company’s business reputation and the confidence of the railroad and investment community, there is a risk that the actions of the Company’s current and former directors and officers, and in particular their failure to make certain deliveries and payments on time, may negatively impact the Company’s current and future business reputation and relationships with customers and suppliers, including the risk that certain prospective customers and suppliers may not do business with the Company due to the actions of the Company’s former management team. Risks Relating to the Common Shares If the Company’s business is unsuccessful, its shareholders may lose their entire investment. Although shareholders will not be bound by or be personally liable for the Company’s expenses, liabilities or obligations beyond their total original capital contributions, should the Company suffer a deficiency in funds with which to meet its obligations, the shareholders as a whole may lose their entire investment in the Company. The Common Shares are subject to the price volatility of publicly traded securities. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations in price, which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. There can be no assurance that continual fluctuations in price will not occur. It may be anticipated that any quoted market for the Common Shares will be subject to market trends generally, notwithstanding any potential success of the Company. - 11 - The Common Shares have limited liquidity and shareholders may be unable to sell their shares. The Company is publicly traded on both the Toronto Stock Exchange and NYSE MKT. There is currently a limited market for the Common Shares and the Company can provide no assurance to investors that a liquid market will develop. If a market for the Common Shares does not develop, shareholders may not be able to resell the Common Shares that they have purchased and they may lose all of their investment. Public announcements regarding the Company, changes in government regulations, conditions in the Company’s market segment and changes in earnings estimates by analysts may cause the price of the Common Shares to fluctuate substantially. Investors’ interests in the Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if the Company issues additional shares or raise funds through the sale of equity securities. The Company’s constating documents currently authorize the issuance of an unlimited number of Common Shares without par value and an unlimited number of Preferred Shares, of which 5,000,000 are designated as Series 1 Shares. If we are required to issue any additional shares or enter into private placements to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors’ interests in the Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. If the Company issues any such additional shares, such issuances also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other shareholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change in control of the Company. As a foreign private issuer the Company will not be subject to U.S. proxy rules. As a foreign private issuer, the Company will be exempt from the rules and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (United States) related to the furnishing and content of proxy statements. 