RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the following risks, if they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We are also subject to market risks that are presented both in this subsection and in Note 41 to our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 appearing elsewhere in this annual report. Risks Relating to our Operations and the Chilean Banking Industry The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. During the last five years, our total loan portfolio has shown double-digit growth rates, primarily as a result of the expansion in residential mortgage and consumer loans, and, to a lesser extent, due to an increase in commercial loans. The growth of our loan portfolio is in line with our strategic priorities, although we recognize our focus on the retail market may expose us to higher levels of loan losses and may require us to establish higher levels of allowances for loan losses. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our loan portfolio amounted to Ch$18,771,761 million, which represents a 8.0% annual increase as compared to the amount of Ch$17,386,497 million that we recorded as of December 31, 2011. Similarly, our allowances for loans losses increased 6.9% from Ch$362,741 million in 2011 to Ch$387,803 million in 2012. Accordingly, our ratio of allowances for loan losses to total loans was 2.09% in 2011 and 2.07% in 2012. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same or similar rate. We cannot assure you that our loan portfolio will continue to grow at the same rates as it has in the past. The Chilean financial system’s loan portfolio has grown significantly over the last five years, which growth has been fostered by a general effort of participants in the financial industry to broaden their value offerings and increase banking penetration in lower and middle income segments. These efforts have been also supported by the robustness of the Chilean economy over the last decade. However, a slowdown or negative growth rate of the Chilean economy, as well as a change in the behavior of banking customers, could adversely affect the growth rate of our loan portfolio and our credit quality indicators and, accordingly, cause us to increase our required allowances for loan losses. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation and Supervision” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Selected Statistical Information.” Restrictions imposed by banking regulations may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the Superintendency of Banks. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with respect to certain matters, including interest rates and foreign exchange transactions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation and Supervision.” Pursuant to the Ley General de Bancos (the “General Banking Law”) all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the Superintendency of Banks, engage in certain non-banking businesses approved by the law. The Superintendency of Banks’ approval will depend on the risk of the activity and the strength of the bank. Further, the General Banking Law applies to the Chilean banking system a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices (the “Basel Committee”) and limits the discretion of the Superintendency of Banks to deny new banking licenses. In addition, during 2011 the Chilean Congress debated bills regulating insurance commissions related to mortgage loans and maximum legal interest rates for small consumer loans. The bill regulating insurance commissions was published on December 17, 2011, effective as of July 1, 2012. This new law imposed restrictions and obligations on lenders such as a mandatory bid process for insurance related to mortgage loans and a general prohibition on commissions benefiting the lender. Although this law became effective on July 1, 2012, it did not 8 Table of Contents have any impact on our business activity due to the characteristics of the insurance contracts associated with residential mortgage loans, which consist of collective insurance policies that are renewed every January 1st. The new law will apply to our results of operations beginning in 2013, although we do not expect any material effects. Additionally, there is a bill currently under consideration in Congress related to maximum legal interest rates. This bill states that applicable maximum interest rates may not exceed the higher of: (i) 1.5 times the average interest rate for loans applicable at the time of the agreement, and (ii) the average interest rate for loans applicable at the time of the agreement plus two annual percentage points. In addition, the bill states that the interest rate for local currency loans not indexed to inflation with terms longer than 90 days may not exceed the average interest rate applicable to the same type of loans for amounts between 200 and 5.000 UF (approximately U.S.$9,527 and U.S.$238,187) plus: (i) 14 annual percentage points if the loan is higher than 50 UF (approximately U.S.$2,382) or (ii) 21 annual percentage points if the loan is equal or lower than 50 UF. Accordingly, the proposed law—if enacted—will mainly affect consumer loans, namely, installment, credit card and credit line loans, as well as overdue loans. We estimate that under the terms considered in this bill, as of December 31, 2012, no more than 2.5% of our total loans had an interest rate above the proposed new limit or had an overdue portion subject to penalty charges and, therefore, were potentially affected by the new maximum interest rate. We believe that if the bill is enacted, it would affect the volume of installment loans to be granted from the date the law goes into effect, as well as the outstanding and new loans related to credit cards and credit lines, whereas the outstanding balance of installment loans would not be affected. In addition, the proposed law—if enacted—may result in lower net interest income together with a reduction in our loan growth. Since the bill is currently under discussion in Congress we cannot ascertain the final outcome of the law or its actual impact on interest rates. Nevertheless, based on preliminary estimations, we believe the proposed law—if enacted—would not have any material effects on our results of operations for 2013. It is also important to note that the Chilean regulator has suggested that Basel III guidelines may be implemented in Chile which could impose new requirements for Chilean banks in terms of capital adequacy and liquidity standards. We do not expect the potential implementation of Basel III to affect our profitability and results of operations in 2013 as the Chilean regulator has not given any indication as to when and how these guidelines will be implemented. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that these guidelines will not affect our financial performance in the future if adopted. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose more restrictive limitations in the future on the activities of banks, including us, than those that are currently in effect or proposed. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on us. Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect our operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other Chilean and foreign banks, with Banco del Estado de Chile, a government-owned bank, and with large department stores that grant consumer loans to a large portion of the Chilean population, especially in the low and middle-income segments. In addition, the retail market (which comprises individuals and small and medium-sized companies) has become the target market of several banks, and competition within this market is increasing as banks are continuously incorporating new and tailored products, while they strive to improve service quality. As a result, net interest margins (after provisions for loan losses) in these sub-segments are likely to decline over time. We also face competition from non-bank competitors with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards and consumer loans. In these markets, competition from non-banking companies like large department stores, private compensation funds, and saving and credit cooperatives has become increasingly significant. In addition, we face competition from other types of competitors, such as leasing, factoring and automobile financing companies (especially in credit products), as well as mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies, within the market for savings products and mortgage loans. Currently, banks continue to be the main suppliers of leasing, factoring and mutual funds, and the insurance sales business is experiencing fast growth, but we cannot assure you that this trend will continue in the future. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition.” Increasing competition within the Chilean banking industry has been accompanied by a consolidation trend in the industry in recent years. We expect that both of these trends will continue and result in the creation of larger and stronger financial groups. These trends may adversely affect us because they may increase the interest rates we pay to attract depositors and decrease the interest rates we charge our customers for loans, resulting in a decrease of the net interest margins we are able to generate. 9 Table of Contents Our exposure to certain segments of the retail market could lead to higher levels of total past-due loans and subsequent charge-offs. Although we historically focused on banking for the wholesale market and high-income individuals, an increasing portion of our retail market consists of small and medium-sized companies (approximately 7.6% of our total loan book as of December 31, 2012, including companies with annual sales of up to Ch$1,600 million) and, to a lesser extent, of lower-income individuals (approximately 4.1% of our total loan book as of December 31, 2012, including individuals with monthly incomes that range from Ch$170,000 to Ch$500,000). Our strategy aims to increase lending and banking penetration by providing multiple value propositions to attract additional retail customers. These customers are likely to be more severely affected by adverse developments in the Chilean economy than large corporations and high-income individuals. Consequently, in the future we may experience higher levels of total past-due loans, which could result in higher allowances for loan losses. The levels of total past-due loans and subsequent write-offs may be materially higher in the future, which could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2012 our total past-due loans (loans overdue 90 days or more) reached Ch$181,863 million which represented a 1.7% annual increase as compared to the figure recorded a year earlier. In addition, as of December 31, 2012 our total past-due loans were composed of 77.3% of retail banking past-due loans (consumer and residential mortgage loans to individuals, as well as commercial loans to small and medium sized companies) and 22.7% of wholesale banking past-due loans (commercial loans to large companies and corporations). During the prior fiscal year, our past-due portfolio comprised 81.9% of retail banking past-due loans and 18.1% wholesale banking past-due credits. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Principal Business Activities.” One of our affiliates may be obligated to sell shares of our stock in the public market if we do not pay sufficient dividends. As of December 31, 2012, Sociedad Administradora de la Obligación Subordinada S.A. (“SAOS”), our affiliate, held 32.5% of our shares as a consequence of our 1996 reorganization. This reorganization was due in part to the 1989 repurchase by the Central Bank of certain non-performing loans that we had previously sold to the Central Bank and later exchanged for subordinated debt without a fixed term. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Bank—History—The 1982-1983 Economic Crisis and the Central Bank Subordinated Debt.” In exchange for assuming the Central Bank debt, SAOS received from SM-Chile S.A. (“SM-Chile”), the holding company that controls us and SAOS, a stake of 63.6% of our shares as collateral for this debt. Dividends received from us are the sole source of SAOS’s revenues, which—in turn—must be used to repay this debt. However, under SAOS’s agreement with the Central Bank, we have no obligation to distribute dividends to our shareholders. To the extent distributed dividends are not sufficient to pay the amount due on this debt, SAOS is permitted to maintain a cumulative deficit balance with the Central Bank that SAOS commits to pay with future dividends. If this cumulative deficit balance exceeds 20% of our paid-in capital and reserves, the Central Bank may require SAOS to sell a sufficient number of our shares to pay the entire amount of the accumulated deficit. As of March 31, 2013, SAOS maintained a surplus with the Central Bank of Ch$275,702 million, equivalent to a 13.4% of our paid-in capital and reserves as of the same date. Furthermore, if our shareholders decide to retain and capitalize all or part of our annual net income in order to finance our future growth and to distribute stock dividends, the Central Bank may require us to pay in cash to SAOS the portion of net income corresponding to its stake in our shares. If we distribute stock dividends and the Central Bank does not require us to pay that portion in cash, the shares received by SAOS must be sold by SAOS within the following 12 months. SM-Chile shareholders will have a right of first refusal with respect to that sale. If SAOS is required to sell shares of our stock for any of the aforementioned circumstances in the public market, that sale could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our stock. 10 Table of Contents The results of our operations are affected by inflation and interest rate volatility. The results of our operations depend to a great extent on our net interest income, which represented 71.8% of our total operating revenues in 2012. Changes in inflation and nominal interest rates could affect the interest rates earned on our interest-earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, resulting in a reduction in our net income. Inflation and interest rates are highly sensitive to several factors beyond our control, including the Central Bank’s monetary policy, deregulation of the Chilean financial sector, domestic and international economic and political conditions, among other factors. Any volatility in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The inflation rate—measured as the annual variation in the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) as published by the National Statistics Institute—was 2.96% in 2010, 4.44% in 2011 and 1.49% in 2012. The average annual short-term nominal interest rate in Chile for 90 to 360 day deposits received by Chilean financial institutions was 2.73% in 2010, 5.61% in 2011 and 5.90% in 2012. The average long-term nominal interest rate based on the interest rate of the Central Bank’s five-year bonds was 5.54% in 2010, 5.67% in 2011 and 5.26% in 2012. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Overview—Inflation” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Overview—Interest Rates.” Operational problems or errors can have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As all large financial institutions, we are exposed to many operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper internal authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures, errors made by employees and natural disasters, such as earthquakes or tsunamis. Although we maintain a system of operational controls composed of world-class human and technological resources, as well as comprehensive contingency plans, there can be no assurance that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse impact on us. Cybersecurity events could negatively affect our reputation or results of operations and may result in litigation. We have access to large amounts of confidential financial information and control substantial financial assets belonging to our customers as well as to us. In addition, we provide our customers with continuous remote access to their accounts and the possibility of transferring substantial financial assets by electronic means. Accordingly, cybersecurity is a material risk for us. We depend on a variety of internet-based data processing, communication, and information exchange platforms and networks. Thus, we cannot assure you that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability. Additionally, we enter into contracts with several third-parties to provide the business, data and communication services we offer to our customers. If information security is breached, or if one of our employees breaches compliance procedures, information could be lost or misappropriated, which may affect our results of operations, damage others or result in potential litigation. Cybersecurity incidents, such as computer break-ins, phishing, identity theft and other disruptions could negatively affect the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us in excess of insurance coverage, and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, we cannot assure you that these security measures will be successful. Request from Spanish Court to Chilean Judicial Authorities On April 29, 2010, the Supreme Court of Chile denied the requests contained in a rogatory letter issued on October 26, 2009 by the Central Court of Instruction Number 5 of the National Court of Spain (Juzgado Central de Instrucción No. 5 de la Audiencia Nacional de Madrid) in Madrid, Spain (the “Spanish Court”) to have certain actions taken (as described below) with respect to a lawsuit before the Spanish Court. The Supreme Court of Chile established that the subject matter of the investigation by the Spanish Court was currently pending before a Chilean tribunal that has jurisdiction and competence over these matters. 11 Table of Contents The rogatory letter referred to above notified the Chilean judicial authorities that a lawsuit pending before the Spanish Court had been amended to add causes of action concerning concealment of assets and money laundering against Mr. Pablo Granifo Lavin (the chairman of our board of directors) and Mr. Hernán Donoso Lira (former manager of our New York branch) and against us, Banchile Corredores de Bolsa S.A. and Banchile Administradora General de Fondos S.A., the latter three of which face only subsidiary civil liability. The rogatory letter, among other items, requested a joint guarantee (fianza solidaria) from the defendants in the amount of U.S.$77,348,374 and, if the aforementioned parties were not to grant such a joint guarantee, requested the attachment of assets of up to U.S.$103,131,165. On April 30, 2012, the Spanish Court decided the provisional dismissal (sobreseimiento provisional) of the aforementioned lawsuit on the grounds that the Chilean judicial authorities have investigated and prosecuted the same facts as those pending before the courts in Spain, and there is an existing legal proceeding underway in Chile, which should have priority. The complainant filed an appeal (recursos de apelación y reforma), which was dismissed on July 27, 2012 and June 19, 2012 by the Spanish judicial authorities. In Chile, a judicial investigation is currently underway and at the time of filing of this annual report no indictments for criminal participation of persons affiliated with us have been issued. Consequently, it is not possible to predict the outcome of these proceedings, or what impact, if any, they might have on us. Exposure to European sovereign debt or related instruments and future turmoil and destabilization related thereto could negatively affect our business. Although emerging markets were less impacted by the global financial crisis of 2008 and showed a quick recovery, there are still concerns about the possibility of a recession in developed countries, especially due to the fiscal condition of certain European economies (such as Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, also called PIIGS economies). The debt levels and fiscal unreliability of these countries have resulted in uncertainty regarding the outlook for the global economy and a potential contagion to other economies linked to these countries. Similarly, we are unable to determine and predict the effects this situation will have on the world’s and our commercial partners’ GDP growth and overall financial stability. Also, these factors could translate into a local economy’s slowdown that would affect the decision making process of individuals and companies regarding consumption and investment, which—in turn—could adversely affect the demand for credits. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that these developments will not occur or that they will not affect us. As of December 31, 2012 we had a total exposure to PIIGS economies of Ch$38,785 million (U.S.$80.9 million), which represents 0.17% of our total assets as of the same date. This exposure was concentrated in only two economies, Italy and Spain, and it was related to contingent credits, such as standby letter of credits in favor of us as well as third parties. As of the same date, we had no additional exposure to PIIGS countries, in any type of instrument, such as financial assets available-for-sale, assets held for trading, derivatives, commercial loans, credit lines, confirming export letters of credits, etc. Risks Relating to our ADSs Our principal shareholders may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders and their significant share ownership may have an adverse effect on the future market price of our ADSs and shares. As of April 15, 2013, LQ Inversiones Financieras S.A. (“LQIF”), a holding company beneficially owned by Quiñenco S.A. and Citigroup Chile S.A. holds directly and indirectly approximately 58.40% of the voting rights of our shares. These principal shareholders are in a position to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors, direct our management and control all matters decided by a shareholder vote, including the approval of fundamental corporate transactions. Actions by our principal shareholders with respect to the disposition of the shares or ADSs they beneficially own, or the perception that such actions may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our shares on the various stock exchanges on which they are listed and, consequently, the market price of the ADSs. 12 Table of Contents There may be a lack of liquidity and a limited market for our shares and ADSs. While our ADSs have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) since the first quarter of 2002, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ADSs will be sustained. During 2012, a daily average of 22,924 American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”) was traded on the NYSE, according to data provided by Bloomberg. Although our shares are traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange, the Valparaiso Stock Exchange and the Chilean Electronic Stock Exchange, the market for our shares in Chile is small and illiquid. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 15.7% of our outstanding shares were held by shareholders other than our principal shareholders, including LQIF, SM-Chile, SAOS and Ergas Group. If an ADS holder withdraws the underlying shares from the ADR facility, the small size of the market, its limited liquidity, as well as our concentrated ownership, may impair the ability of the ADS holder to sell the shares in the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase the volatility of the price of our ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anónimas No. 18,046 (the “Chilean Corporations Law”) and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anónimas (the “Chilean Corporations Regulations”) require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs) to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible unless a registration statement under the Securities Act were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. We may elect not to make a registration statement available with respect to the preemptive rights and the common stock, in which case you may not be able to exercise your preemptive rights. If a registration statement is not filed, the depositary will sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. Developments in international financial markets may adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and shares. The market price of our ADSs and shares may be adversely affected by volatility in international financial markets and adverse world economic conditions. The market for Chilean securities and the Chilean economy as a whole are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in the United States and certain emerging market countries, including some in Latin America and Asia. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can affect the financial markets in other countries, including Chile. Therefore, unfavorable developments in other countries may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and shares. In particular, since August 2007, there has been significant volatility in worldwide financial markets due to consequences from the announcement, by several U.S. banks and financial institutions, of significant write-downs related to their exposure to mortgage-backed securities and other financial instruments. This situation, also known as the subprime crisis, translated into significant government bail-outs for important banks worldwide, bankruptcy for some others and an active M&A market in the financial industry. Although the Chilean economy is not directly exposed to the U.S. housing credit market and we do not directly hold any assets related to such financial instruments, the subprime crisis impacted Chilean economic activity towards the end of 2008, with additional effects on the banking industry and our commercial activity. We cannot assure you that these past developments will not continue to affect us, nor that any future developments in international markets could not affect us, including our results of operations and consequently the market price of our ADSs and shares. Similarly, although our exposure to European sovereign debt is not significant, amounting to U.S.$80.9 million as of December 31, 2012, we cannot assure you that volatility in global financial markets due to the uncertainty regarding the Eurozone fiscal condition will not affect the Chilean economy and consequently our financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, the price of our ADS could be adversely affected by a new financial turmoil in the Eurozone, a slower than expected recovery, or a deterioration in healthier economies, such as Germany and France, that could translate into increasing volatility and uncertainty all over the world. 13 Table of Contents In the past, Chile has imposed controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that affected investments in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have historically been subject to various exchange control regulations that restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated most of the regulations that affected foreign investors, although foreign investors still have to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and must conduct such operations within the Formal Exchange Market. Additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them, the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends may be imposed in the future, and we cannot advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. If for any reason, including changes in Chilean law, the depositary for our ADSs were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. We are required to withhold 35% from any dividends we pay to you. ADSs owners are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by ADSs owners will be paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and expenses of the depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax of 35% of the dividend, which we will withhold and pay to the Chilean tax authorities. Any dividend distributions made in property (other than common stock) will be subject to the same Chilean tax rules as cash dividends. For more information, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Chilean Tax Considerations.” Risks Relating to Chile Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile. Our core business and transactions are with customers doing business in Chile. Accordingly, our ability to increase our business scale and results of operations, as well as enhance our financial condition, in general, depends on the dynamism of the Chilean economy and specific macroeconomic variables, such as inflation, unemployment, consumption and investment. The global financial crisis that significantly affected the growth in developed economies also affected the Chilean economy by the end of 2008 and during the first three quarters of 2009, which immediately translated into a slowdown in the local banking industry due to lower levels of consumption and deteriorated credit quality in loan portfolios prompted by increasing unemployment. Conversely, during 2010 and 2011 the local economy and financial system experienced a significant upturn, fostered by real GDP growth of around 6% per year, mainly as a result of the recovery in consumption and investment. To a great extent, this trend continued in 2012 by supporting a GDP expansion of 5.6% for the local economy. Accordingly, over the last three years the Chilean banking industry, including us, returned to historical average figures of loan growth and profitability. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the Chilean economy will continue to grow in the future or developments in, or affecting, the Chilean economy and the local banking industry will not materially and adversely affect us, our business, financial condition or results of operations. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect the value of our ADSs and any distributions on the ADSs. The Chilean Government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso with respect to the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our common stock and our ADSs. The peso has been subject to large fluctuations in the past and could continue this trend in the future. Between December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Chilean peso decreased by approximately 8.2%, as compared to the increase of 11.3% recorded in the period from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011. Chilean trading in the shares underlying our ADSs is conducted in pesos. Cash distributions with respect to our shares of common stock are received in Chilean pesos by the depositary, which then converts such amounts to U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to the Chilean peso, the dollar value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will decrease. In addition, the depositary will incur customary currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. For more information, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls.” 14 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Chilean peso and the U.S. dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations related to the general avoidance of material exchange rate mismatches. In order to reduce the effect of exchange rate mismatches we enter into foreign exchange derivative transactions in order to hedge—partially or totally—our exposure. As of December 31, 2012, our foreign currency-denominated assets and Chilean peso-denominated assets, which contain repayment terms linked to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, exceeded our foreign currency-denominated liabilities and Chilean peso-denominated liabilities, which contain repayment terms linked to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, by an amount of Ch$1,097.2 million, or 0.06% of our paid-in capital and reserves. We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate mismatches. Regulations that limit such mismatches may also be amended or eliminated. Higher exchange rate mismatches will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the Chilean peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service foreign-currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect us, our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the economic policies of the Chilean Government and any future fluctuations of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation could adversely affect the value of our ADSs and financial condition and results of operations. Inflation has been moderate in recent years, especially in comparison to the periods of high inflation in the 1980s and 1990s. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and, indirectly, our results of operations and the value of our ADSs. The annual rate of inflation (as measured by changes in the CPI and as reported by the Chilean National Institute of Statistics) during the last five years and the first three months of 2013 was: Year Inflation(CPI Variation) 2008 7.1 % 2009 (1.4 ) 2010 3.0 2011 4.4 2012 1.5 2013 (through March 31) 0.7 % Source: Chilean National Institute of Statistics Although we benefit from a positive inflation rate in Chile due to the structure of our assets and liabilities (we have a significant net asset position indexed to the inflation rate), our operating results and the value of our ADSs in the future may be adversely affected by changing levels of inflation, and Chilean inflation could change significantly from current levels. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial review and Prospects—Inflation.” Chile has corporate disclosure standards different from those you may be familiar with in the United States. Chilean disclosure requirements for publicly listed companies differ from those in the United States in some significant aspects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and closely supervised as the U.S. securities markets. Accordingly, the information about us available to you will not be the same as the information available to shareholders of a U.S. company. For more information, see “Item 16G. Corporate Governance.” Chilean law provides for fewer and less well-defined shareholders’ rights. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos (bylaws) and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. 15 Table of Contents 