Risk Factors” section, a number of factors may cause our revenue to fall short of our expectations or cause fluctuations in our operating results, including: • Our ability to gain “design wins” with our customers and ramp new designs into production volumes; • Growth rate of the flat-panel TV and LCD monitor markets; • Seasonal consumer demand for flat-panel TVs and LCD monitors into which our products are incorporated; • Customer inventory levels and market share; • Changes in the mix of products we sell, especially between our higher-priced TV/video products and our lower-priced monitor products, and between our legacy two-chip solutions and newer one-chip solutions; • Increased competition and competitive pricing pressures; • Availability and pricing of panels and other components for flat-panel TVs and LCD monitors; • Wafer costs and other product fabrication costs; • Foreign exchange rate fluctuations, research and development tax credits and other factors that impact tax rates; • Changes in product costs or manufacturing yields or available production capacity at our fabrication facilities; and • Costs and outcome of legal proceedings. 7 Table of Contents As a result of the fluctuation in our revenues and operating results, our stock price can be volatile, especially if our actual financial performance in a quarter deviates from the financial targets we set at the beginning of that quarter, or from market expectations. Our success will depend on the growth of the market for flat panel televisions and LCD monitors, and our customers’ share of those markets. Our ability to generate revenues depends on the growth of the market for flat-panel televisions, LCD computer monitors, and digital televisions. Since we do not sell to every manufacturer in those markets, our revenues also depend on how well our customers perform in those markets. To the extent that our customers’ share of the flat panel television, LCD monitor or digital television markets declines or does not grow, the sales of our products will be negatively impacted. In addition, our growth will also depend upon emerging markets for consumer electronics markets such as HDTV. The potential size of these markets and the timing of their development are uncertain and will depend in particular upon: • A continued reduction in the costs of products in the respective markets; • The availability, at a reasonable price, of components required by such products (such as LCD panels); and • The emergence of competing technologies and standards. These and other potential markets may not develop as expected, which would harm our business. We must develop new products and enhance our existing products to react to rapid technological change and market demands. We must develop new products and enhance our existing products with improved technologies to meet rapidly evolving customer requirements and industry standards. In addition, we are developing products for digital television, which is a new market and a new application for our display technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to transition our current technology to meet the demands of the digital television market. We need to design products for customers that continually require higher functionality at lower costs. We must, therefore, continue to add features to our products and to include these features on a single chip. The development process for these advancements is lengthy and will require us to accurately anticipate technological innovations and market trends. Developing and enhancing these products is time-consuming, costly and complex. There is a risk that these developments and enhancements will be late, fail to meet customer or market specifications, and will not be competitive with other products using alternative technologies that offer comparable functionality. We may be unable to successfully develop new products or product enhancements. Any new products or product enhancements may not be accepted in new or existing markets. If we fail to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements, that failure will harm our business. We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive and are characterized by technological change, evolving industry standards and rapidly declining average selling prices. We compete with both large and small companies, including ATI Technologies, Broadcom Corp., Intel Corp., LSI Logic Corp., Micronas Semiconductor Holding AG, Mediatek Corp., Mstar Semiconductor, Inc., National Semiconductor, Novatek Microelectronics, Philips Semiconductors, a division of Philips Electronics N.V., Pixelworks, Inc., Realtek Semiconductor Corp., Silicon Image, Inc., ST Microelectronics, Inc., Trident Microsystems, Inc., Vastview and Zoran Corporation. In addition, many of our current and potential customers have their own internally developed integrated circuit solutions, and may choose not to purchase solutions from third party suppliers like Genesis. We may also face competition from start-up companies. 8 Table of Contents As the markets for our products continue to develop, our current customers may increase reliance on their own internally developed solutions, and competition from diversified electronic and semiconductor companies will intensify. Some competitors, who may include our own customers, are likely to include companies with greater financial and other resources than we have. Our overseas competitors have reduced cost structures that enable them to compete aggressively on price. Increased competition could harm our business, by, for example, increasing pressure on our profit margins or causing us to lose customers. Also, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has affirmed the judgment of the federal district court for the Eastern District of Virginia that we have received a license from Silicon Image, Inc. for certain of their DVI and HDMI patents, and must pay Silicon Image royalties on all of our DVI and HDMI products. This judgment could hinder our ability to compete with unlicensed competitors that are not required to pay royalties on competing products. Our customers experience fluctuating product cycles and seasonality, which causes their sales to fluctuate. Our products are incorporated into flat panel and CRT displays. Because the market for flat panel displays is characterized by numerous new product introductions, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our customers also experience seasonality in the sales of their products, which affects their orders of our products. Typically, the second half of the calendar year represents a disproportionate percentage of sales for our customers due to the holiday shopping period for consumer electronics products, and therefore, a disproportionate percentage of our sales. Also, our sales in the first quarter of the calendar year may be lower as a result of the Chinese New Year holiday in Asia. We expect these sales fluctuations to continue for the foreseeable future. A loss of any of our major customers could have a significant impact on our business. The markets for our products are highly concentrated. Our sales are derived from a limited number of customers. Sales to our largest five customers accounted for 51% of our revenues, and for our largest customer 15%, for the year ended March 31, 2006. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a large amount of our revenues. The decision by any large customer to decrease or cease using our products could harm our business. In addition, our customers sell to a limited number of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). The decision by any large OEM to decrease or cease using our customer’s products could, in turn, cause our customer to decrease or cease buying from us. Most of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements so that any customer could cease purchasing products at any time without penalty. We must sell our current products in greater volumes, or introduce new products with improved margins. Average selling prices for our products have declined, in many cases significantly. When average selling prices decline, our revenues decline unless we are able to sell more units, and our gross margin dollars decline unless we are able to reduce our manufacturing and/or other supply chain costs by a commensurate amount. We therefore need to sell our current products in greater volumes to offset the decline in their ASPs, while also introduce new products that have improved gross margins. Our semiconductor products are complex and are difficult to manufacture cost-effectively. The manufacture of semiconductors is a complex process. It is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to achieve acceptable product yields. Product yields depend on both our product design and the manufacturing process technology unique to the semiconductor foundry. Since low yields may result from either design or process difficulties, identifying yield problems may occur well into the production cycle, when a product exists which can be physically analyzed and tested. Low yields negatively impact our gross margins and our financial results. 9 Table of Contents Defects in our products could increase our costs, cause customer claims, and delay our product shipments. Although we test our products, they are complex and may contain defects and errors. In the past, we have encountered defects and errors in our products. Delivery of products with defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems may damage our reputation and our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, product defects and errors could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical resources, delayed product shipments, increased product returns, and product liability claims against us which may not be covered by insurance. Any of these could harm our business. We subcontract our manufacturing, assembly and test operations. We do not have our own fabrication facilities, assembly or testing operations. Instead, we rely on others to fabricate, assemble and test all of our products. Most of our products use silicon wafers manufactured by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, the loss of which could result in a material increase in the price we must pay for silicon wafers. There are many risks associated with our dependence upon outside manufacturing, including: • Lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • Increased manufacturing cost or the unavailability of product in the event that manufacturing capacity becomes constrained; • Reduced control over manufacturing and delivery schedules of products; • Reduced control over quality assurance and reliability; • Difficulty of management of manufacturing costs and quantities; • Potential misappropriation of intellectual property; and • Political or environmental risks (including earthquake and other natural disasters) in Taiwan, where the manufacturing facilities are located; We depend upon outside manufacturers to fabricate silicon wafers on which our integrated circuits are imprinted. These wafers must be of acceptable quality and in sufficient quantity and the manufacturers must deliver them to assembly and testing subcontractors on time for packaging into final products. We have at times experienced delivery delays and long manufacturing lead times. These manufacturers fabricate, test and assemble products for other companies. We cannot be sure that our manufacturers will devote adequate resources to the production of our products or deliver sufficient quantities of finished products to us on time or at an acceptable cost. The lead-time necessary to establish strategic relationships with new manufacturing partners is considerable. We would be unable to readily obtain an alternative source of supply for any of our products if this proves necessary. Any occurrence of these manufacturing difficulties could harm our business or cause us to incur costs to obtain adequate and timely supply of products. Intellectual property infringement suits brought against us or our customers may significantly harm our business. We defended claims brought against us by Silicon Image, Inc., alleging that certain of our products that contain digital receivers infringe various Silicon Image patent claims. In addition, IP Innovation LLC has sued Dell Computer Corporation, LG Electronics and other companies that incorporate our products into their displays, alleging patent infringement by certain consumer and professional electronics products, including some that contain our display controller products. This lawsuit, or any future patent infringement lawsuits, could subject us to permanent injunctions preventing us from selling the accused products and/or cause us to incur significant costs, including defense costs, settlements and judgments. In addition, as a result of this lawsuit or any future patent infringement lawsuits, our existing customers may decide to stop buying our products, and prospective customers may be unwilling to buy our products. 10 Table of Contents Intellectual property lawsuits, regardless of their success, are time-consuming and expensive to resolve and divert management time and attention. In addition, if we are unsuccessful and our products (or our customers’ monitors or televisions that contain our products) are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to do one or more of the following: • Stop selling the products or using the technology that are allegedly infringing; • Attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; • Incur substantial costs including defense costs, settlements and/or judgments; and • Attempt to redesign those products that are allegedly infringing. As a result, intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial results and market share. We may be required to indemnify our customers against claims of intellectual property infringement. From time to time, we enter into agreements with our customers that contain indemnification provisions for claims based on infringement of third party intellectual property rights. As a result, if such a claim based on our products is made against an indemnified customer, we may be required under our indemnification obligations to defend or settle the litigation, and/or to reimburse that customer for its costs, including defense costs, settlements and judgments. We may also be subject to claims for indemnification under statutory or common law. For example, we have agreed to indemnify some of our customers in connection with lawsuits or threatened lawsuits by IP Innovation LLC against Dell Computer Corporation, LG Electronics and other consumer electronics companies, alleging patent infringement by various products that contain our display controller products. This or other patent litigation and any indemnification obligations we may have could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial results and market share, and could result in significant payments by us that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary technologies. We have been issued patents and have pending United States and foreign patent applications. However, we cannot assure you that any patent will be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, that any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. It may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, or technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents, or even court rulings in our favor regarding our patents, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. For example, U.S. Customs has declined to apply our ITC exclusion order to MStar’s Tsunami (or TSU) products; see Part II: Other Information Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Our products require licenses of third-party technology that may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. We license technology from third parties that is incorporated into our products. Future products or product enhancements may require additional third-party licenses, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We also license third-party intellectual property in order to comply with display technology standards. For example, we signed the DVI Adopters Agreement and the HDMI Adopters Agreement in order to obtain a license to those standards. However, even though we licensed the DVI technology, Silicon Image, Inc., one of the promoters of the DVI standard, sued us for allegedly infringing certain DVI patents. If we are unable to obtain third-party licenses required to develop new 11 Table of Contents products and product enhancements, or to comply with applicable standards, we could be at competitive disadvantage. The processes used to manufacture our semiconductor products are periodically retired. As semiconductor manufacturing technologies advance, manufacturers typically retire their older manufacturing processes in favor of newer processes. When this occurs, the manufacturer generally provides notice to its customers of its intent to discontinue a process, and its customers will either retire the affected part or design a newer version of the part that can be manufactured on the more advanced process. Consequently, our products may become unavailable from their current manufacturers if the processes on which they are produced are discontinued. Our devices are mainly 0.18, 0.16 and 0.13 micron technology and the newer of these geometries will likely be available for the next two to three years. We must manage the transition to new parts from existing parts. We have commitments from our suppliers to provide notice of any discontinuance of their manufacturing processes. We do not have long-term commitments from our customers, and we allocate resources based on our estimates of customer demand. Our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. In addition, our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders. We manufacture our products according to our estimates of customer demand. This process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may manufacture products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we would have excess inventory, which would increase our losses. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we would forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Our lengthy sales cycle can result in uncertainty and delays in generating revenues. Because our products are based on new technology and standards, a lengthy sales process, typically requiring several months or more, is often required before potential customers begin the technical evaluation of our products. This technical evaluation can then exceed nine months. It can take an additional nine months before a customer commences volume shipments of systems that incorporate our products. However, even when a manufacturer decides to design our products into its systems, the manufacturer may never ship systems incorporating our products. Given our lengthy sales cycle, we experience a delay between the time we increase expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing efforts and inventory and the time we generate revenues, if any, from these expenditures. As a result, our business could be harmed if a significant customer reduces or delays its orders or chooses not to release products incorporating our products. A large percentage of our revenues will come from sales outside of the United States, which creates additional business risks. A large portion of our revenues will come from sales to customers outside of the United States, particularly to equipment manufacturers located in South Korea, China, Europe, Japan and Taiwan. For the year ended March 31, 2006, sales to regions outside of the United States represented 99% of revenues. For that same period, sales to China and South Korea alone constituted 43% and 19%, respectively. These sales are subject to numerous risks, including: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Political and economic instability; • Exposure to litigation or government investigations in these countries; • Longer payment periods; • Ability to enforce contracts or payment terms; 12 Table of Contents • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • Export license requirements; and • Unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. Because our sales are denominated in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar could increase the price of our products in non-U.S. markets and may make our products more expensive than competitors’ products denominated in local currencies. We are subject to risks associated with international operations, which may harm our business. We depend on product design groups located outside of the United States, primarily in Canada and India. We also rely on foreign third-party manufacturing, assembly and testing operations. These foreign operations subject us to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the United States, including the following: • Unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; • Delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; • Imposition of additional taxes and penalties; • The burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and • Other factors beyond our control, including acts of terrorism, which may delay the shipment of our products, impair our ability to travel or our ability to communicate with foreign locations. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be designed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This increases the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. Our multi-jurisdictional tax structure is complex and we could be subject to increased taxation. We conduct business operations in a number of countries and are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. We develop our tax position based upon the anticipated nature and structure of our business and the tax laws, administrative practices and judicial decisions now in effect in the countries in which we have assets or conduct business, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretations. We are also subject to audit by local tax authorities which could result in additional tax expense in future periods. Any increase in our income tax expense could adversely impact on our future earnings and cash flows. In addition, some of our subsidiaries provide products and services to, and may undertake significant transactions with, our other subsidiaries that are incorporated in different jurisdictions. Some of these jurisdictions have tax laws with detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm’s-length pricing principles. International transfer pricing is a complex area of taxation and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. If international taxation authorities successfully challenge our transfer pricing policies, our income tax expense may be adversely affected. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may lead to significant variances in the demand for our products. In the past, significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand have characterized the semiconductor industry. Also, the industry has experienced significant fluctuations in anticipation of changes in general economic conditions, including economic conditions in Asia. These cycles have led to significant variances in product demand and production capacity. They have also accelerated the erosion of average selling prices per unit. We may experience periodic fluctuations in our future financial results because of changes in industry-wide conditions. 13 Table of Contents A breakdown in our information technology systems could cause a business interruption, impair our ability to manage our business or report results, or result in the unauthorized disclosure of our confidential and proprietary information. Our information technology systems could suffer a sudden breakdown as a result of factors beyond our control, such as earthquakes, insecure connections or problems with our outside consultants who provide information technology services to us. If our information technology systems were to fail and we were not able to gain timely access to adequate alternative systems or back-up information, this could have a negative impact on our ability to operate and manage our business and to report results in a timely manner. Also, any breach of our information systems by an unauthorized third party could result in our confidential information being made public or being used by a competitor, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize the potential of our proprietary rights. We may make acquisitions where advisable, and acquisitions involve numerous risks. Our growth is dependent upon market growth and our ability to enhance our existing products and introduce new products on a timely basis. One of the ways we may address the need to develop new products is through acquisitions of other companies or technologies, such as our acquisitions of Sage and the assets of VM Labs. These acquisitions and potential future acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • We may experience difficulty in assimilating the acquired operations and employees; • We may be unable to retain the key employees of the acquired operations; • The acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing business; • We may not be able to incorporate successfully the acquired technologies and operations into our business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • We may lack the experience to enter into new markets, products or technologies; and • An acquisition we choose to pursue may require a significant amount of capital, which limits our ability to pursue other strategic opportunities. Acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our recent or potential future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We must also maintain our ability to manage growth effectively. Failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquisitions made by us could materially harm our business and operating results. We may become subject to judgments for securities class action suits. We have been a defendant in a securities class action suit. In March 2006, Genesis and the plaintiff signed an agreement to settle the lawsuit. However, we may be subject to future securities class action suits, which could subject us to judgments in excess of our insurance coverage and could harm our business. In addition, this kind of lawsuit, regardless of its outcome, is likely to be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and may divert management time and resources. We need to continually evaluate internal financial controls against evolving standards. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and newly proposed or enacted rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers impose new duties on us and our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accountants. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and such new rules and regulations, we have evaluated our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses for internal and outside legal, accounting and advisory services, which have increased our operating expenses and accordingly reduced our net income or increased our net losses. While we have met the requirements of Section 404 including the evaluation, documentation and testing of internal 14 Table of Contents controls for the year ended March 31, 2006, we cannot be certain as to the future outcome of our testing and resulting remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with this process. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. In addition, current regulatory standards are subject to change, and additional standards may be imposed. General economic conditions may reduce our revenues and harm our business. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. During times of economic slowdown, many industries may delay or reduce technology purchases. As a result, if economic conditions in the United States, Asia or Europe worsen, or if a wider or global economic slowdown occurs, reduced orders and shipments may cause us to fall short of our revenue expectations for any given period and may result in us carrying increased inventory. These conditions would negatively affect our business and results of operations. If our inventory builds up as a result of order postponement, we would carry excess inventory that is either unusable or that must be sold at reduced prices which will harm our revenues and gross margins . In addition, weakness in the technology market could negatively affect the cash flow of our customers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure, which could harm our financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table lists the names and positions held by each of our executive officers as of March 31, 2006: Name Age Position Elias Antoun 49 Chief Executive Officer and Director Anders Frisk 50 Executive Vice President Michael Healy 44 Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Finance Behrooz Yadegar(1) 46 Senior Vice President, Product Development Tzoyao Chan(2) 53 Senior Vice President, Strategic Engineering Initiatives Raphael Mehrbians 46 Senior Vice President, Product Marketing Mohammad Tafazzoli 46 Senior Vice President, Operations Ernest Lin 52 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales Jeffrey Lin 33 General Counsel Rajeev Munshi(3) 42 Vice President, Quality Assurance Ken Murray(4) 55 Vice President, Human Resources Ava Hahn 33 Associate General Counsel and Secretary (1) On May 16, 2006, Behrooz Yadegar was appointed Senior Vice President, Product Development. (2) As of May 16, 2006, Tzoyao Chan ceased being an executive officer of the Company. (3) As of May 16, 2006, Rajeev Munshi ceased being an executive officer of the Company. (4) As of May 16, 2006, Ken Murray ceased being an executive officer of the Company. 15 Table of Contents Elias Antoun has served as Chief Executive Officer since November 2004. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Antoun served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Pixim, Inc., an imaging solution provider for the video surveillance market, between March 2004 and November 2004. From February 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Antoun served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of MediaQ, Inc., a mobile handheld graphics IC company acquired by NVIDIA Corporation in August 2003. From January 1991 to February 2000, Mr. Antoun held a variety of positions with LSI Logic Corporation, most recently serving as Executive Vice President of the Consumer Products Division from 1998 until his departure in January 2000. Mr. Antoun served as a Director of HPL Technologies, Inc. from August 2000 to December 2005, and as Chairman of the Board of Directors of HPL Technologies, Inc. from July 2002 to December 2005. Anders Frisk has served as Executive Vice President since January 2003. Mr. Frisk joined Genesis in March 2000 as Vice President, Marketing. Prior to then, he served as Director of Technology Planning with Nokia from February 1998 to March 2000, and as PC Architecture Manager with Fujitsu ICL Computers from April 1991 to January 1998. Mr. Frisk has served on the board of the Video Electronics Standards Association, or VESA, and chaired VESA’s Monitor Committee for four years. Mr. Frisk holds a master’s degree in electrical engineering from Stockholm’s Royal Institute of Technology. Michael Healy joined Genesis in February 2004 as Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance. Previously, Mr. Healy served as Chief Financial Officer of Jamcracker, Inc., a software and application service provider, from November 2002 to February 2004. From September 1997 to January 2002, Mr. Healy held senior level finance positions at Exodus Communications, including Senior Vice President of Finance. Prior to then, he held various senior financial management positions at Apple Computer, and was an auditor at Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Healy holds a bachelor’s degree in accounting from Santa Clara University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Mr. Healy is a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the California Society of Certified Public Accountants. Behrooz Yadegar joined Genesis in May 2006 as Senior Vice President, Product Development. Prior to joining Genesis, Mr. Yadegar served as the Vice President of Engineering and Operations for Cortina Systems Inc., a global communications supplier of port connectivity solutions to the networking and telecommunications sector, from March 2004 to April 2006. From October 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Yadegar was the Senior Vice President of Engineering and Operations at MediaQ, Inc., which was acquired by NVIDIA in 2003. Previously, Mr. Yadegar held senior technical management positions at Silicon Graphics, MIPS and Intel. Mr. Yadegar holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Missouri. Tzoyao Chan, Senior Vice President, Strategic Engineering Initiatives, joined Genesis in May 1999 as the result of the merger with Paradise Electronics. Dr. Chan served as our Senior Vice President, Product Development until May 2006. Before joining Paradise in May 1997, Dr. Chan was Director of Engineering at Cirrus Logic, Inc., a semiconductor company. He has also held various engineering and management positions at leading chip-design companies including Bell Labs (now Lucent Technology), Intel Corp, LSI Logic, Chips & Technologies and S3. Dr. Chan holds a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the University of Arizona. Raphael Mehrbians has served as Senior Vice President, Product Marketing since September 2003. Mr. Mehrbians joined Genesis in February 2002 as Vice President, LCD Monitor Product Marketing. Mr. Mehrbians served as Director of Marketing for NeoMagic Corporation, a handheld applications processor company, from October 1999 to February 2002. Prior to then, he was Vice President of Product Marketing for Lexar Media, a digital storage media company, from April 1997 to October 1999. Mr. Mehrbians also served in various positions including Director of Marketing for Cirrus Logic, Inc., a semiconductor company, from September 1985 to April 1997. Mr. Mehrbians holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of Michigan, and a master’s degree in electrical engineering from the University of Michigan. Mohammad Tafazzoli has served as Vice President, Operations since June 2000 and was appointed Senior Vice President in May 2004. He was previously the Director of Operations at Genesis and joined the company as a result of the merger with Paradise Electronics. Prior to joining Paradise in 1998, Mr. Tafazzoli was a Senior Manager, Product Engineering for the Graphics Business Unit of Cirrus Logic, Inc., a 16 Table of Contents semiconductor company, from October 1993 to March 1998. Mr. Tafazzoli holds a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from San Jose State University. Ernest Lin has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales since January 2005. Prior to joining Genesis, Mr. Lin served as vice president of global sales at NeoMagic Corporation from December 2001 to December 2004. Prior to then, Mr. Lin served as executive vice president of business operations for LinkUp System Corporation from September 1997 until its acquisition by NeoMagic in December 2001. Additionally, Mr. Lin was instrumental in building Cirrus Logic’s business in the Asia Pacific region. During his 12 year tenure at Cirrus Logic, he held several executive management, sales and engineering positions, including vice president, Asia Pacific Sales. Mr. Lin holds an MBA from Santa Clara University, a Master’s degree in computer science from the University of Utah and a BSEE from the National Taiwan University in Taipei, Taiwan. Jeffrey Lin joined Genesis in September 2004 and has served as General Counsel since August 2005. Prior to joining Genesis, from June 1999 to August 2004, Mr. Lin was an associate with Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C., where he focused on technology transactions for private and public companies. Prior to that, Mr. Lin was an attorney at the Federal Trade Commission, where he worked on antitrust matters in the microprocessor industry. Mr. Lin holds a B.S. from the University of Michigan and a J.D. from UCLA School of Law. Rajeev Munshi has served as Vice President, Quality Assurance since December 2002. Mr. Munshi joined Genesis in December 2000 as Director of Quality Assurance. From June 2000 to December 2000, Mr. Munshi served as Director of Quality Assurance for ChipPAC, Inc., a provider of semiconductor packaging and test services. From 1997 to December 2000, Mr. Munshi was Director of Quality and Reliability of the Mass Storage Division at Cirrus Logic Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Munshi holds a bachelor’s degree from Delhi University, India and an M.B.A. from California State University. Ken Murray joined Genesis in August 2000 as Vice President, Human Resources. He served as Vice President, Human Resources at Chordiant Software from November 1999 to August 2000 and at NeoMagic Corp. from July 1997 to November 1999. From 1984 to July 1997, Mr. Murray served as Vice President, Human Resources for Akashic Memories Corporation, a magnetic media company. Mr. Murray holds a bachelor’s degree in business administration from San Jose State University. Ava Hahn joined Genesis in August 2002 as Corporate Counsel. From May 2003 to August 2005, she served as General Counsel, and since October 2003, she has also served as Secretary. In addition, Ms. Hahn was Assistant Secretary from September 2002 to October 2003. From August 2000 to August 2002, Ms. Hahn was Director, Legal Affairs at LuxN, Inc., an optical networking company. Prior to then, from August 1997 to August 2000, Ms. Hahn was an associate attorney with Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C. Ms. Hahn holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of California at Berkeley and a J.D. from Columbia Law School. 