D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various changing business, competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China and worldwide. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Demand for our products is sensitive to cyclical fluctuations and general economic conditions, and a reduction in demand could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our products is sensitive to cyclical fluctuations and significantly affected by general economic conditions. From the fourth quarter of 2008 through the second quarter of 2009, demand for our products decreased significantly due to the global financial crisis, which resulted in a significant downturn in a number of our end-user markets. The performance of each of our business segments was in turn materially and adversely affected during that period. The global economy has been recovering since the second half of 2009 and continued to gain its momentum in 2010, and our production and sales volumes increased significantly in 2010. However, there is no assurance that there will not be a renewed decline in the global market for our products or general economy. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it challenging for us to forecast our results of operations, make business decisions and identify risks that may affect our business. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 9 Volatility in alumina, primary aluminum and other non-ferrous metal prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The prices of our key products have been historically volatile and fluctuate in response to general economic conditions, supply and demand and the level of global inventories. We price our alumina and primary aluminum products by reference to international and domestic market prices, and domestic supply and demand, each of which may fluctuate beyond our control. From the fourth quarter of 2008 through early 2009, the demand for alumina and primary aluminum decreased significantly as a result of the global financial crisis, and our average selling price of alumina and primary aluminum decreased by 28.4% and 19.7%, respectively, in 2009 from 2008. As the global economy started to recover in the second half of 2009, the demand for alumina and primary aluminum gradually increased. In 2010, the international spot prices of alumina and primary aluminum on the LME reached a high of US$390 per tonne and US$2,447 per tonne, respectively, representing a year-on-year increase of 12.4% and 8.0 %, respectively. Our average selling price of alumina and primary aluminum increased by 21.9% and 14.4%, respectively, in 2010 from 2009. Because most of our costs are fixed, we may not be able to respond promptly to a sudden decrease in alumina or primary aluminum prices, see "- Failure to maintain optimal utilization of our production facilities will adversely affect our gross and operating margins." As a result of the implementation of our operational structural adjustment exercise, our trading business was established as a new operating segment. The trading segment engages in the trading of alumina, aluminium ingots and other non-ferrous metal products. These products are sourced under spot contracts and long-term contracts signed with our international and domestic alumina suppliers, and mainly sold to aluminium smelters and other traders in the PRC. Sales of products manufactured by our manufacturing business are also included in trading segment (see further discussion in Note 6 to our audited financial statements). The profits of our trading business may be negatively affected by fluctuations in the price of the non-ferrous metal products we trade. As the profit margin of trading is based on price fluctuation in a short term, we need to make the correct prediction of the price fluctuation of the non-ferrous metal products on the markets to ensure the profit margin. If the price fluctuation on the market does not match our prediction, we may incur substantial losses. As a result, any significant fluctuation in international market prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires substantial capital investments that we may be unable to fulfill. Our plans to upgrade and expand our production capacity will require capital expenditures of approximately RMB22.6 billion (US$3.4 billion) in 2011. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - D. Property, Plants and Equipment - Our Expansion". We may also need additional funding for debt servicing, working capital, other investments, potential acquisitions and joint ventures and other corporate requirements. We may seek external financing to satisfy our capital needs if cash generated from our operations is insufficient to fund our capital expenditures or if our actual capital expenditures and investments exceed our plans. Our ability to obtain external financing at reasonable costs and on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties. Failure to obtain sufficient funding for our development plans could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our failure to successfully manage our business expansion would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to adequately manage our business growth, which we have achieved through organic growth, acquisitions and joint ventures. Our expansion has created, and will continue to place, substantial demand on our resources. Managing our growth and integrating the acquired businesses will require, among other things: * complying with the laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to the acquired businesses; * gaining market acceptance for new products and services and establishing relationships with new customers and suppliers; * achieving sufficient utilization of new production facilities to recover costs; * obtaining timely approval for the construction or expansion of alumina refineries, primary aluminum smelters and mining projects as required under PRC law; * managing relationships with employees, customers and business partners during the course of our business expansion and integration of new businesses; * attracting, training and motivating members of our management and workforce; * accessing our debt, equity or other capital resources to fund our business expansion, which may divert financial resources otherwise available for other purposes; * diverting significant management attention and resources from our other businesses; and * strengthening our operational, financial and management controls, particularly those of our newly acquired subsidiaries, to maintain the reliability of our reporting processes. Any difficulty meeting the foregoing or similar requirements could significantly delay or otherwise constrain our ability to undertake our expansion plans, which in turn would limit our ability to increase operational efficiency, reduce marginal manufacturing costs or otherwise strengthen our market position. If we are not able to manage our growth successfully, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Risks associated with entering into new areas of business. 10 During 2010, we expanded our business activities into the areas of coal mining and iron ore production through the joint venture agreements with Luxin Company, Shanxi Aluminum Plant and natural person shareholders, and with Rio Tinto and Rio Tinto Atlantic we entered into respectively in 2010. We may not achieve our business objectives due to the lack of experience in these new areas. In addition, we will have a significant but not a controlling interest in the iron ore production joint venture to be established pursuant to the joint venture agreement we entered into. Under the governing documents for the joint venture to be established, certain key matters such as the approval of business plans and decisions as to the timing and amount of cash distributions may require the consent of our partners. Although we have not been materially constrained by the nature of our ownership interests, no assurance can be given that our partners will not exercise their power of veto or their controlling influence in any of our ventures in a way that will hinder our corporate objectives and reduce any anticipated cost savings or revenue enhancement resulting from these ventures. Failure to maintain optimal utilization of our production facilities will adversely affect our gross and operating margins. During 2010, on one hand, we experienced an expansion in production capacity at a number of our production facilities due to the completion of construction of new alumina production facilities. On the other hand, the administrative policies and orders carried out by the local governments to fulfill China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals adversely affected the output of our primary aluminum products. We also increased our external purchases of alumina and primary aluminum for trading purposes to capitalize on fluctuating market prices in 2010 and to enhance resource planning to achieve cost savings in our production. The increase in our external purchases has reduced our utilization of certain production facilities, but has not resulted in a proportionate decrease in fixed costs such as leases and depreciation of plant, property and equipment. Given our high proportion of fixed costs, failure to maintain historical utilization rates may adversely affect our gross and operating margins. Furthermore, we expect our production capacity expansion in recent years to increase our costs of sales, in particular, depreciation and amortization costs. If we are able to maintain satisfactory facility utilization rates and increase our production output, our production capacity expansion will enable us to reduce our unit costs through economies of scale, as fixed costs will be spread over a higher volume of output units. Conversely, underutilization of our existing and newly acquired or construction production facilities may increase our marginal production costs and prevent us from realizing the intended economic benefits of our expansion. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy, and our profitability may decline if energy costs rise or if our energy supplies are interrupted. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy. Although we generally expect to meet the energy requirements for our alumina refineries and primary aluminum smelters from a combination of internal and external sources, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by the following: * significant increases in electricity costs; or * curtailment of the operation of one or more refineries or smelters due to our inability to extend energy supply contracts upon their expiration. Electricity is the principal production cost in our primary aluminum operations. During 2010, our average cost per kilowatt-hour, or kWh, of electricity increased by 12.3% from the prior year primarily due to the increase in the price of coal and the electricity price adjustment under state policy. We expect the PRC economy to continue its strong growth and as a result, we expect demand for and prices of electricity to increase accordingly. If we are unable to pass on increases in energy costs to our customers, our operating margin, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of power could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The production of primary aluminum requires a substantial and continuous supply of electricity. Interruptions in the supply of power can result in costly production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and the waste of production in progress. A sudden loss of power, if prolonged, can cause damage to or the destruction of production equipment and facilities. In such an event, we may need to expend significant capital and resources to repair or replace the affected production equipment to restore our production capacity. Various regions across China have experienced shortages and disruptions in electrical power, especially during peak demand in the summer or during severe weather conditions. Our operations in Guizhou Province were disrupted due to power blackouts resulting from severe winter conditions in early 2008, and these disruptions damaged some production equipment and temporarily reduced our production capacity. Our operations consume substantial amounts of coal, and our operations may be adversely affected if we are not able to procure sufficient coal or if coal prices rise significantly. We rely heavily on coal as our energy and fuel source in our production of alumina. As we increase our refining capacity, our consumption of coal will increase accordingly. If our coal suppliers are not able to supply the amount of coal needed for our production due to a shortage of coal, constraints on coal transportation or any other reason, we may be forced to reduce our production output or suspend our refining operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although our average price of coal per unit tonne increased by 21.1% from 2009 to 2010, we expect the price of coal to increase as the PRC economy continues its rapid growth. If we are unable to pass on increases in coal prices to our customers or offset price increases through productivity improvements, our operating margin, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 We may be unable to continue competing successfully in the markets in which we operate. We face competition from both domestic and international primary aluminum producers. Our principal competitors are domestic smelters, some of which are consolidating and expanding their production capacities. These smelters compete with our primary aluminum operations on the basis of cost, quality and pricing. We also face increasing competition from international alumina and primary aluminum suppliers since the elimination of tariffs on imports of primary aluminum and alumina into China. Increasing competition in our markets may reduce our selling prices or sales volumes, which will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to price our products competitively, maintain or increase our current share of China's alumina and primary aluminum markets or otherwise maintain our competitiveness, our financial condition, results of operations and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our overseas expansion exposes us to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we plan to operate. We are currently undertaking a number of overseas projects, including our aluminium and power joint venture project in Saudi Arabia, the aluminium plant project in Malaysia, the iron ore mining joint venture project in Guinea in West Africa and Aurukun Project in Australia, which require significant capital investment. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - A. History and Development of the Company- Overseas Development". As we are new to these overseas markets, we cannot assure you that our overseas expansion or investments will be successful or that we will not suffer foreign exchange losses in connection with our overseas investment. In addition, our overseas business is subject to the risk of political and economic instability associated with these countries. Our profitability and operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain a steady supply of raw materials at competitive prices. Historically, the price for bauxite, our most important raw material for alumina production, has been volatile. We obtain bauxite for our operations from three major sources, including mines that we own or jointly operate and external suppliers. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview - Raw Materials - Alumina - Supply". The extent to which we procure bauxite from each of these sources affect the security of our supply or cost of bauxite. Our results of operations will be affected by increases in the cost of other raw materials and other key inputs such as energy. If we cannot obtain a steady supply of key raw materials at competitive prices, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Transportation interruptions may affect our shipment of raw material and delivery of products. Our operations require the reliable transportation of raw materials and supplies to our refining, smelting and fabrication sites and the delivery of finished products to our customers. Our alumina products are mainly transported by rail or truck, and our primary aluminum products are delivered to our customers primarily by rail. In 2008, our deliveries were affected by a snow storm in the first quarter and severe earthquakes in Sichuan Province in May. If we are unable to make timely deliveries due to logistical and transportation disruptions, our production, reputation and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not successfully develop and implement new methods and processes. A main objective of our research and development is to develop new methods and processes to improve the efficiency of our alumina refineries to production increase yield from bauxite with low alumina-to-silica ratio. If the supply of high quality bauxite with a high alumina-to-silica ratio in China declines, our failure to develop such methods and processes and incorporate them into our production could impede our efforts to reduce unit costs and diminish our competiveness. The bauxite reserve data in this annual report are only estimates, which may prove to be inaccurate. The bauxite reserve data on which we base our production, revenue and expenditure plans are estimates that we have developed internally and may prove inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. If these estimates are inaccurate or the indicated tonnages are not recovered, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require a significant amount of cash to meet our capital requirements, including the expansion and upgrade of our production capacity, as well as to fund our existing operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately RMB41.7 billion (US$6.3 billion) in outstanding short-term bonds and short-term bank borrowings (including the current portion of long-term bank and other borrowings) and RMB27.7 billion (US$4.2 billion) in outstanding long and medium-term bonds and long-term bank and other borrowings (excluding the current portion of these borrowings). This level of debt could have significant consequences on our operations, including: * making it more difficult for us to fulfill payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt, including repayment of our debt and credit facilities should we be unable to obtain extensions for any such debt or credit facilities before they mature. In March 2010 and June 2010, we issued first and second tranche of the short-term bonds totalling RMB10 billion (US$1.5 billion) with one-year term. In 2008, we issued medium-term notes totaling RMB10.0 billion (US$1.5 billion) with RMB5.0 billion (US$0.8 billion) in principal amount maturing in 2011 and 2013 respectively. In 2007, we issued RMB2 billion (US$0.3 billion) of long-term bonds, which will mature in 2017; 12 * reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; * exposing us to interest rates fluctuations on our borrowings and the risk of being unable to rollover, extend or refinance our borrowings as necessary; * potentially increasing the cost of additional financing and making it more difficult for us to conduct equity financings in the capital markets or obtain government approvals to seek additional financing; and * putting pressure on our ADS price due to concerns of our ability to repay our debt. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future or to refinance such debt. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet such obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our ADS holders. A shortage of financing could in turn impose limitations on our ability to plan for, or react effectively to, changing market conditions or to expand through organic and acquisitive growth, thereby reducing our competitiveness. We cannot assure you that future financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may not realize the economic benefits of our expansion and vertical integration plans. Cost savings and other economic benefits expected from our expansion and vertical integration plans may not materialize as a result of project delays, cost overruns, or changes in market conditions. Failure to obtain the intended economic benefits from these projects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also experience mixed results from our expansion and vertical integration plans in the short term. In 2008, we acquired five aluminum fabrication plants, which significantly increased our annual aluminum fabrication production capacity and increased our total revenues. However, the change in our product mix resulted in a decrease in our average profit margin as the profit margins of aluminum fabrication products are generally lower than those of our other products. The interests of our controlling shareholder, who exerts significant influence over us, may conflict with ours. Our largest shareholder, Chinalco, directly owned 38.56% of our issued share capital and indirectly owned an additional 3.26% of our issued share capital through its controlled entities. The interests of Chinalco may conflict or even compete with our interests and those of our public shareholders. Chinalco may take actions that are in the interest of its subsidiaries, associates and other related entities to our detriment. For example, Chinalco may seek to influence our decision as to the amount of dividends we declare and distribute. Any increase in our dividend payout would reduce funds otherwise available for reinvestment in our businesses and thus may adversely affect our future prospects and financial condition. In addition, Chinalco and a number of its subsidiaries and associates provide a range of services to us, including engineering and construction services, social services, land and property leasing as well as the supply of raw and supplemental materials. It would be difficult to find an alternative source for some services, such as educational and medical care services, that we receive from Chinalco. Our cost of operations may increase if Chinalco, its subsidiaries and associates are unable to continue providing such services to us. We are subject to, and incur costs to comply with, environmental laws and regulations. Because we produce air emissions, discharge waste water, and handle hazardous substances at our bauxite mines, alumina smelters, aluminum smelters and fabrication plants we are subject to, and incur costs to comply with, environmental laws and regulations. Each of our production plants has implemented a system to control emissions and ensure compliance with PRC environmental regulations. We may incur significant additional costs if relevant laws and regulations change or enforcement of existing laws and regulations become more rigorous. Further, although all of our overseas expansion projects are at the early stage of preparing feasibility report and have not started operation, these projects are subject to foreign environmental laws and regulations that may materially adversely affect our future operations. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations, all of which may affect our business operations. We are subject to administrative policies and orders relating to China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals that could adversely affect our production capacity and output. We are subject to administrative energy-saving and emission reduction policies and orders carried out by the central and provincial governments in accordance with China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals. In the second half of 2010, some of our primary aluminum production facilities were subject to power rationing carried out by some provincial governments to fulfill the Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals, which reduced our primary aluminum production by approximately 1.65%. Although power rationing only slightly reduced our primary aluminum production and the PRC central government has denounced it as an improper means to fulfill the Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals, some or all of our primary aluminum production facilities may be subject to power rationing or other similar policies and orders from time to time in the future, which may adversely affect our production capacity and output. 13 Our business is subject to unplanned business interruptions that may adversely affect our performance. We may experience accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. Significant accidents and natural disasters may cause interruptions to our operations or result in property or environmental damage, an increase in operating expenses or loss of revenues. The occurrence of accidents, natural disasters and the resulting consequences may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance policies we carry. In accordance with customary practice in China, we do not carry any business interruption insurance or third-party liability insurance for personal injury or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations other than for our automobiles. Losses or payments incurred by us as a result of major accidents or natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if such losses or payments are not fully insured. We are operating a number of mines without a valid permit. Our permits to mine bauxite in some of our bauxite mines have expired and lapsed. While we are seeking to renew those expired licenses, we may be subject to administrative fines for operating mines without a valid license, or we may be ordered to cease our mining operations at such mines until we obtain the renewed licenses. The failure to renew those expired mining licenses may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims. Some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability claims relating to property damage or personal injury. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in significant damage payments and harm to our reputation. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our H Shares may not be able to maintain its status as a constituent stock of the Hang Seng Index. Our H Shares is a constituent stock of the Hang Seng Index and, as a result, may attract the interest of tracker funds that maintain investment portfolios that track the performance of the Hang Seng Index. We have no control over the selection of the Hang Seng Index constituent stocks and may not be able to maintain our H Shares as a constituent stock. If our H Shares are removed from the Hang Seng Index, tracker funds may cease investing in our H Shares and our share price may decline. The interests of the shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang may conflict with our interests. The interests of non-controlling shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang, whose A Shares are listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, may be inconsistent with our interests in certain circumstances. Jiaozuo Wanfang must comply with a number of PRC regulations designed to protect the interests of non-controlling shareholders. According to the relevant PRC laws, when shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang vote by poll on connected transactions, connected parties such as us must abstain from voting. If we are unable to obtain approval of connected transactions from the non-controlling shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang, such transactions cannot be implemented, which may affect our overall operational efficiency. Furthermore, we may be subject to legal proceedings initiated by the non-controlling shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang challenging our actions as its controlling shareholder. Such legal proceedings could result in significant damage awards payable by us and disruption to our businesses, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our operations are affected by a number of risks relating to conducting business in the PRC. As a significant majority of our assets and operations are located in the PRC, we are subject to a number of risks relating to conducting business in the PRC, including the following: * The central and local PRC government continues to exercise a substantial degree of control and influence over the aluminum industry in China and shape the structure and development of the industry through the imposition of industry policies governing major project approvals, preferential tax treatment and safety, environmental and quality regulations. If the PRC government changes its current policies or the interpretation of those policies that are currently beneficial to us, we may face pressure on profit margins and significant constraints on our ability to expand our business operations. * Although China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, control of payments of obligations denominated in foreign currencies and monetary and tax policies. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a materially adverse impact on us. * In 2005, China adopted a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. Since then the exchange rate between U.S. dollar and Renminbi has fluctuated and become more unpredictable following the international financial crisis with increasing pressure on the Renminbi to appreciate. Any appreciation of the Renminbi will increase the prices of our export sales denominated in foreign currencies and reduce the Renminbi equivalent value of our trade and notes receivable denominated in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and operating performance may also be affected by changes in the value of currencies other than Renminbi in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. 14 * Although the promulgation of laws and regulations covering general economic matters has increased since 1979, China has not developed an adequately comprehensive legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in the PRC may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The PRC judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our present or future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. 