Item 1A. Risk Factors. MGE Energy and its subsidiaries, including MGE, operate in a market environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond their control. The following risk factors may adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and market price for their publicly traded securities. While MGE Energy and MGE believe they have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting their business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect their performance or financial condition in the future. Regulatory Risk We are subject to extensive government regulation in our business, which affects our costs and responsiveness to changing events and circumstances. Our business is subject to regulation at the State and Federal levels. We are subject to regulation as a holding company by the PSCW. MGE is regulated by the PSCW as to its rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between it and its affiliates, including MGE Energy. MGE is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates certain aspects of its business. The regulations adopted by the State and Federal agencies affect the manner in which we do business, our ability to undertake specified actions since pre-approval or authorization may be required, the costs of operations, and the level of rates charged to recover such costs. Our ability to attract capital is also dependent in part, upon our ability to obtain a fair return from the PSCW. 17 We face risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs when they exceed the base rate established in MGE's current rate structure. MGE burns natural gas in several of its peak electric generation facilities, and in many cases, the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. MGE bears significant regulatory risk for the recovery from customers of such fuel and purchased power costs when they are higher than the base rate established in its current rate structure. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that affect our costs and business plans. Our subsidiaries are subject to environmental laws and regulations that affect the manner in which they conduct business, including capital expenditures, operating costs and potential liabilities. Changes and developments in these laws and regulations may change or limit our business plans, make them more costly to implement, or expose us to liabilities for past or current operations. Numerous environmental regulations govern many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, and hazardous waste; and continue to evolve in response to real or perceived concerns, regulatory initiatives, nongovernmental organizational initiatives and private parties and legal process. The development of these regulations can introduce uncertainty into the planning and implementation process for long-lead time projects, such as generating stations, and can introduce costly delays if previous decisions need to be revisited as a result of judicial mandate or regulatory change. These regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections, and other approvals, and can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. These effects can be seen not only with respect to new construction, such as our participation in the Elm Road generating units, but could also require the installation of additional control equipment or the implementation of other compliance measures such as altered operating conditions. In addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean-up at sites identified as containing hazardous materials. It is difficult to predict the costs potentially associated with a site clean-up due to the potential joint and several liability for all potentially responsible parties, the nature of the clean-up required and the availability of recovery from other potentially responsible parties. We may incur material costs of compliance if federal and/or state legislation is adopted to address climate change. Various persons, including legislators, regulators, litigants, and private parties, have increasingly expressed concern about the effects of global warming and the effects of greenhouse gases (GHG). These concerns have prompted active discussion on federal and state legislation, as well as regional initiatives, that would regulate or cap such emissions. There have been several proposed versions of legislation pending in the U.S. Congress and in the Wisconsin legislature to address global climate changes, including efforts to reduce and control and/or tax the emission of GHG, such as carbon dioxide, created in the combustion of fossil fuels, including coal, natural gas, and oil. Bills are also considering releases associated with natural gas pipelines and company fleets. These initiatives are sometime paired with efforts to mandate increasing percentages of electricity from renewable forms of energy, such as wind, or to reduce the demand for electricity. Such legislative and regulatory initiatives could have the potential for a significant financial impact on MGE, including the cost to install new emission control equipment, purchase allowances, or do fuel switching. However, the financial consequences of this compliance cannot be determined until final legislation is passed. Operating Risk We are affected by weather, which affects customer demand and can affect the operation of our facilities. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather. Very warm and very cold temperatures, especially for prolonged periods, can dramatically increase the demand for electricity for cooling and heating, respectively, as opposed to the softening effect of more moderate temperatures. Our electric revenues are sensitive to the summer cooling season and, to a lesser extent, the winter heating season. Similarly, very cold temperatures can dramatically increase the demand for gas for heating. A significant portion of our gas system demand is driven by heating. Extreme summer conditions or storms may stress electric transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting the ability to meet peak customer demand. We are affected by economic activity within our service area. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the numbers of customers and their use of electricity and gas. Likewise, periods of recessionary economic conditions generally adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Our ability to manage our purchased power costs is influenced by a number of uncontrollable factors. We are exposed to additional purchased power costs to the extent that our power needs cannot be fully covered by the supplies available from our existing facilities and contractual arrangements. Those needs, and our costs, could be affected by: • Increased demand due to, for example, weather, customer growth, or customer obligations, • The inability to transmit our contracted power from its generation source to our customers due to transmission line constraints, outages, or equipment failures, • Reductions in the availability of power from our owned or contracted generation sources due to equipment failures, shortages of fuel or environmental limitations on operations, and • Failure to perform on the part of any party from which we purchase capacity or energy. An unexpected change in demand or the availability of generation or transmission facilities can expose us to increased costs of sourcing electricity in the short-term market where pricing may be more volatile. Our financial performance depends on the equipment and facilities in our distribution system being operational. Weather conditions, accidents, catastrophic events, and failures of equipment or facilities can disrupt or limit our ability to deliver electricity and gas. Efforts to repair or replace equipment and facilities may not be successful, or we may be unable to make the necessary improvements to our distribution system, causing service interruptions. The resulting interruption of services could result in lost revenues and additional costs. We face construction risk in connection with the completion of generating units. We have assumed risks under the agreements related to our ownership interest in two 615 MW coal-fired generating units being constructed in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. The completion of this project is subject to construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. These risks include but are not limited to the failure of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner, legal challenges and appeals to granted permits, changes in applicable laws or regulations; governmental actions; and events in the global economy. In addition, in the case of the units being constructed in Oak Creek, if the units' final construction costs exceed the fixed costs allowed in the PSCW order, this excess will not be recoverable from MGE or its customers unless specifically allowed by the PSCW. Any Oak Creek project costs above the authorized amount, but below a 5% cap, will be subject to a prudence determination made by the PSCW. In December 2008, we received notice from Elm Road Services, LLC (ERS) that it had received a letter from Bechtel Power Corporation (Bechtel) containing Bechtel's formal claim for schedule and cost relief on the construction of the Elm Road units. Bechtel has asserted two claims for cost and schedule relief in its letter to ERS. Although ERS is in the process of analyzing the claims and its responses to them, it has stated its belief that both claims are without merit. It has also stated its view that the only circumstances and events for which the Elm Road units owners currently retain price adjustment risk under the construction contract are force majeure, wage escalation in excess of 4% annually as measured by published wage bulletins, delays caused by ERS, changes in scope or performance requested by ERS, and unforeseen sub-surface ground conditions. ERS has invoked the dispute resolution process provided for in the contract in order to address the claims made by Bechtel under the contract. That process involves an informal resolution process, followed by mediation and then binding arbitration. ERS is currently in the mediation phase with respect to determining the rights of the parties under the contract and the disposition of Bechtel's claims. ERS has expressed its inability to predict the length or ultimate outcome of the claims. As a result, we are unable to predict the results of these claims or their effect on the costs recoverable under the existing facility leases, in the event that the outcome of the claims should cause total construction costs of the Elm Road units to exceed the amounts authorized in the PSCW order. Bechtel continues to target an in-service date for Elm Road unit 1 three months beyond the guaranteed contract date of September 29, 2009, and an in-service date for Elm Road unit 2 one month earlier than the guaranteed contract date of September 29, 2010. However, Bechtel does request schedule relief that would result in six months of relief from liquidated damages beyond the guaranteed contract date for unit 1 and three months of relief from liquidated damages beyond the guaranteed contract date for unit 2. See Footnote 21 for additional information. 19 Financial Risk We are exposed to commodity price risk relating to our purchases of natural gas, electricity, coal and oil. We face commodity price risk exposure with respect to our purchases of natural gas, electricity, coal and oil, SO2 allowances and risk through our use of derivatives, such as futures, forwards and swaps, to manage that commodity price risk. We could experience increased costs as a result of volatility in the market values of those commodities. We could also experience losses on our derivative contracts as a result of that market value volatility or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative contracts involves our exercise of judgment and use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We are exposed to interest rate risk. We are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable rate financing. MGE Energy had $124.5 million of variable-rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2008, including $51.0 million for MGE. Borrowing levels under commercial paper arrangements vary from period to period depending upon capital investments and other factors. Such interest rate risk means that we are exposed to increased financing costs and associated cash payments as a result of changes in the short-term interest rates. Also, interest rates affect discount rates which are a key assumption for our defined benefit pension plans and may impact the amount of expense and timing of contributions to the plan. Market performance affects our employee benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy the future obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our current and longer-term funding requirements for these obligations. The market value of the investments within the employee benefit plans trusts declined by approximately 27.5% during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. Changes in the value of trust fund assets may affect the level of required contributions to these trusts to meet benefit obligations. Changes in the value of plan assets did not have an impact on the income statement for 2008; however, reduced benefit plan assets could result in increased benefit costs in future years and may increase the amount and accelerate the timing of required future funding contributions. We are exposed to credit risk primarily through our regulated energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparty nonperformance. We face credit risk primarily through MGE's regulated energy business. Failure of contractual counterparties to perform their obligations under purchase power agreements, commodity supply arrangements or other agreements may result in increased expenses for MGE as a result of being forced to cover the shortfall in the spot or short-term market, where prices may be more volatile. As a holding company, we are dependent on upstream cash flows from our subsidiaries for the payment of dividends on our common stock. As a holding company, we have no operations of our own, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to us. Prior to funding us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and obligations to trade creditors, and are subject to contractual and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends. Disruptions in the financial markets as a result of the effects of sub-prime financing and related matters may affect our ability to finance at a reasonable cost and in accordance with our planned schedule. The credit markets have experienced some disruption and uncertainty as a result of the developments associated with sub-prime mortgage issues. To the extent that such issues affect the ability or willingness of credit providers or investors to participate in the credit markets or particular types of investments, or affect their perception of the risk associated with particular types of investments, our cost of borrowing could be affected. 20 General economic conditions may affect our operating revenues, our capital costs and our counterparty risks. Operational MGE Energy's and MGE's operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity, uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets, and increased credit risk. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Increased credit risk reflects the risk that our retail customers will not pay their bills in a timely manner or at all, which may lead to a reduction in liquidity and an eventual increase in bad debt expense. Liquidity Long-term instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. Although MGE Energy and MGE believe they have sufficient liquidity despite the disruption of capital and credit markets, the costs of such funds may increase. Counterparty creditworthiness Credit risk also includes the risk that trading counterparties that owe us money or product will breach their obligations. MGE's risk management policy is to limit transactions to a group of high quality counterparties. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. MGE Energy and MGE None. 21 Item 