RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the following risks if they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We are subject to market risks that are presented both in this subsection and in “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Risks Relating to our Operations and the Banking Industry The growth of our loan portfolio may expose us to increased loan losses. From December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2008, our aggregate loan portfolio, net of interbank loans (on a consolidated basis) grew by 113.8% in nominal terms and 72.8% in real terms to Ch$13,649,005 million. During the same period, our consumer loan portfolio grew by 150.2% in nominal terms and 102.2% in real terms to Ch$1,887,548 million, each calculated in accordance with the loan classification system of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks. Expansion of our loan portfolio (particularly in the retail market) may expose us to a higher level of loan losses and require us to establish higher levels of allowances for loan losses. For the year ended December 31, 2008, total allowances for loan losses accounted for Ch$227,202 million, or 1.66%, of total loans. Our loan portfolio may not continue to grow at the same or similar rate. We cannot assure you that in the future our loan portfolio will continue to grow at historical rates. According to the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, from December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of loans outstanding in the Chilean banking system grew by 103.2% in nominal terms and 64.3% in real terms to Ch$70,251,139 million. A slowdown or negative growth rate of the Chilean economy could adversely affect the rate of growth of our loan portfolio and our risk index and, accordingly, increase our required allowances for loan losses. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation and Supervision” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Selected Statistical Information.” Restrictions imposed by banking regulations may restrict our operations and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the Chilean Superintendency of Banks. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Central Bank with regard to certain matters, including interest rates and foreign exchange transactions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation and Supervision.” During the Chilean financial crisis of 1982 and 1983, the Central Bank and the Chilean Superintendency of Banks strictly controlled the funding, lending and general business matters of the Chilean banking industry. Pursuant to the Ley General de Bancos, or the General Banking Law, all Chilean banks may, subject to the approval of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks, engage in additional businesses depending on the risk of the activity and the strength of the bank. The General Banking Law also applies to the Chilean banking system a modified version of the capital adequacy guidelines issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices, or Basel Committee, and limits the discretion of the Chilean Superintendency of Banks to deny new banking licenses. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose more restrictive limitations in the future on the activities of banks, including us, than those that are currently in effect. Any such change could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Increased competition and industry consolidation may adversely affect our operations. The Chilean market for financial services is highly competitive. We compete with other Chilean private sector domestic and foreign banks, with Banco del Estado de Chile, a public sector bank, and with large department stores that make consumer loans to a large portion of the Chilean population. In 2002, two new private sector banks affiliated with Chile’s largest department stores began their operations, mainly as consumer and medium-sized corporate niche banks. In 2003, a new niche bank oriented at servicing corporations began its operations, and in 2004, two new retail banks commenced operations. The retail market (comprised of individuals and small- and medium-sized companies) has become the target market of several banks, and competition with respect to these customers is likely to increase. As a result, net interest margins (after credit risk) in these sub-segments are likely to decline. We also face competition from non-bank competitors with respect to some of our credit products, such as credit cards and consumer loans. Non-bank competition from large department stores, private compensation funds and savings and credit associations has become increasingly significant in the consumer lending sector. In addition, we face competition from competitors such as leasing, factoring and automobile finance companies, with respect to credit products, and mutual funds, pension funds and insurance companies, with respect to savings products and mortgage loans. Currently, banks continue to be the main suppliers of leasing, factoring and mutual funds, and the insurance sales business has experienced rapid growth, but we cannot assure you that this will continue in the future. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition.” The increase in competition within the Chilean banking industry in recent years has led to, among other things, consolidation in the industry. For example, on August 1, 2002, Banco Santiago and Banco Santander-Chile, the then-second and third largest banks in Chile, respectively, merged to create Chile’s largest bank. In 2003, Banco del Desarrollo merged with Banco Sudameris; in 2004, Banco Security merged with Dresdner Banque Nationale de Paris; in 2005, Banco de Creditos e Inversiones merged with Banco Conosur; in 2007, Banco Itaú acquired Bank Boston unit in Chile, while Rabobank acquired HNS Bank and Scotiabank acquired Banco del Desarrollo; and in 2008, we merged with Citibank Chile and The Royal Bank of Scotland acquired ABN Amro Bank. We expect the trends of increased competition and consolidation to continue and result in the formation of new large financial groups. Consolidation, which can result in the creation of larger and stronger banks, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by decreasing the net interest margins we are able to generate and by increasing our costs of operations. Our exposure to certain segments of the retail market could lead to higher levels of past due loans and subsequent charge-offs. Although we historically focused on banking for the wholesale market and high income individuals, an increasing proportion of our retail market consists of middle-sized and small companies (approximately 6.1% of the value of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2008, including companies with annual sales of up to Ch$1,400 million) and, to a lesser extent, of lower income individuals (approximately 4.5% of the value of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2008, including individuals with monthly incomes between Ch$100,000 and Ch$400,000). Our strategy includes increasing lending and providing other services to attract additional retail customers. These customers are likely to be more severely affected by adverse developments in the Chilean economy than large corporations and high-income individuals. Consequently, in the future we may experience higher levels of past due loans, which could result in higher allowances for loan losses. The levels of past due loans and subsequent write-offs may be materially higher in the future. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Principal Business Activities.” 8 Table of Contents Our affiliate may be obligated to sell shares of our stock in the public market if we do not pay sufficient dividends. As of December 31, 2008, Sociedad Administradora de la Obligacion Subordinada S.A., or SAOS, our affiliate, holds 35.35% of our shares as a consequence of our 1996 reorganization. This reorganization was due in part to our 1989 repurchase from the Central Bank of certain non-performing loans that we had previously sold to the Central Bank and later exchanged for subordinated debt without a fixed term. Under the terms of a repayment obligation in favor of the Central Bank that SAOS assumed to replace the Central Bank subordinated debt, SAOS may be required to sell some of our shares to the public. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Bank—History—The 1982-1983 Economic Crisis and the Central Bank Subordinated Debt.” See Note 34 to our audited consolidated financial statements. In exchange for assuming the Central Bank indebtedness, SAOS received from SM-Chile S.A., a holding company that controls us and SAOS, 63.6% of our shares as collateral for this indebtedness. As a result of our merger with Banco de A. Edwards, the percentage of our shares held by SAOS decreased to 42.0%. As a result of the capital increase agreed upon in the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held in May 2007, the share dividend paid in May 2006, May 2007 and June 2009, and the merger with Citibank Chile in January 2008, the percentage of our shares held by SAOS further decreased to 34.6%. Dividends received from us are the sole source of SAOS’s revenue, which it must apply to repay this indebtedness. However, under SAOS’s agreement with the Central Bank, we have no obligation to distribute dividends to our shareholders. To the extent distributed dividends are not sufficient to pay the amount due on this indebtedness, SAOS is permitted to maintain a cumulative deficit balance with the Central Bank that SAOS commits to pay with future dividends. If the cumulative deficit balance exceeds an amount equal to 20% of our capital and reserves, the Central Bank may require SAOS to sell a sufficient number of shares of our stock owned by SAOS to pay the entire accumulated deficit amount. As of April 30, 2009, SAOS maintained a surplus with the Central Bank of Ch$86,819 million, equivalent to 6.58% of our capital and reserves. As of the same date, Ch$263,719 million would have represented 20% of our capital and reserves. If from time to time in the future our shareholders decide to retain and capitalize all or part of our annual net income in order to finance our future growth, and to distribute stock dividends among our shareholders, the Central Bank may require us to pay the portion of the net income corresponding to shares owned by SAOS in cash to SAOS. If we distribute stock dividends and the Central Bank does not require us to pay that portion in cash, the shares received by SAOS must be sold by SAOS within the following 12 months. The shareholders of SM-Chile will have a right of first refusal with respect to that sale. We are unable to determine the likelihood that the Central Bank would require SAOS to sell shares of our common stock or that SAOS will otherwise be required to sell any stock dividends distributed by us, nor can we determine the number of such shares SAOS may be required to sell. If SAOS is required to sell shares of our stock in the public market, that sale could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our stock. The results of our operations are affected by inflation and interest rate volatility. The results of our operations depend to a great extent on our net interest revenue, which represented 70.9% of our operating revenue in 2008. Changes in inflation and in market interest rates could affect the interest rates earned on our interest-earning assets differently from the interest rates paid on our interest-bearing liabilities as well as in the derivative portfolio, resulting in a reduction in our net revenue. Inflation and interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including the reserve policies of the Central Bank, deregulation of the financial sector in Chile, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Any volatility in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The average inflation rate was 3.40% in 2006, 4.39% in 2007 and 8.71% in 2008. The average annual short-term interest rate (based on the rate paid by Chilean financial institutions) for 90 to 360 day deposits was 2.83% in 2006, 2.20% in 2007 and 2.23% in 2008. The average long-term interest rate based on the Central Bank’s ten-year bonds was 2.98% in 2006, 2.9% in 2007 and 3.24% in 2008. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Overview—Inflation” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results—Overview—Interest Rates.” 9 Table of Contents Operational problems or errors can have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As all large financial institutions, we are exposed to many operational risks, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, failure to obtain proper internal authorizations, failure to properly document transactions, equipment failures and errors by employees. Although we maintain a system of operational controls, there can be no assurance that operational problems or errors will not occur and that their occurrence will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Complaint of Consejo de Defensa del Estado On March 11, 2009, the Consejo de Defensa del Estado de la Republica de Chile filed a complaint against Banco de Chile in the United States District Court of the Southern District of Florida. The complaint alleges substantive civil violations of the Racketeer Influenced & Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”), RICO conspiracy, aiding and abetting RICO violations, and aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty. The complaint seeks redress for funds allegedly misappropriated from the Chilean government by the former President of Chile, Augusto Pinochet, and it alleges that Banco de Chile participated in conduct related to a money laundering scheme. Damages being sought are $22 million, which amount is subject to trebling pursuant to RICO. It is not possible to predict the outcome of this matter, or what impact, if any, it might have. As of the date of filing this annual report, Banco de Chile has not been served with the complaint, and it has not waived (and does not waive by virtue of filing this annual report) any of its rights with respect to service of process of the complaint. Banco de Chile believes it has meritorious defenses to the complaint, and it intends to defend this matter vigorously if and when it is served. Risks Relating to our ADSs Our principal shareholders may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders and their significant share ownership may have an adverse effect on the future market price of our ADSs and shares. As of June 17, 2009, LQ Inversiones Financieras S.A., a holding company beneficially owned by Quiñenco S.A., and Citigroup Chile S.A. beneficially owned approximately 61.7% of our outstanding voting rights. These principal shareholders are in a position to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors, direct our management and control substantially all matters that are to be decided by a vote of the shareholders, including fundamental corporate transactions. Actions by our principal shareholders with respect to the disposition of the shares or ADSs they beneficially own, or the perception that such actions may occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our shares on the various stock exchanges on which they are listed and, consequently, the market price of the ADSs. There may be a lack of liquidity and a limited market for our shares and ADSs. While our ADSs have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, since the first quarter of 2002, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ADSs will be sustained. During 2008, a daily average of 17,721 American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, were traded on the NYSE. Although our shares are traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange, the Valparaiso Stock Exchange and the Chilean Electronic 10 Table of Contents Stock Exchange, the market for our shares in Chile is small and illiquid. At December 31, 2008, approximately 11.78% of our outstanding shares were held by shareholders other than our principal shareholders, including SM-Chile and SAOS. If an ADS holder withdraws the underlying shares from the ADR facility, the small size of the market and its low liquidity in general, and our concentrated ownership in particular, may impair the ability of the ADS holder to sell the shares in the Chilean market in the amount and at the price and time such holder desires, and could increase the volatility of the price of our ADSs. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights. The Ley Sobre Sociedades Anonimas No. 18,046 and the Reglamento de Sociedades Anonimas, or the Chilean Corporations Law and its regulations, require that whenever we issue new common stock for cash, we grant preemptive rights to all of our shareholders (including holders of ADSs) to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Such an offering would not be possible unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, were effective with respect to such rights and common stock or an exemption from the registration requirements thereunder were available. We may elect not to make a registration statement available with respect to the preemptive rights and the common stock, in which case you may not be able to exercise your preemptive rights. If a registration statement is not filed, the depositary will sell such holders’ preemptive rights and distribute the proceeds thereof if a premium can be recognized over the cost of any such sale. Developments in international financial markets may adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and shares. The market price of the ADSs and shares may be adversely affected by declines in the international financial markets and adverse world economic conditions. The market for Chilean securities is, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially those in Latin America. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can affect the securities markets in other countries, including Chile. Developments in other countries may adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and shares. In particular, since August 2007 to date, there has been significant volatility in worldwide financial markets due to the announcement, by several U.S. banks and financial institutions, of significant write-downs related to their exposure to mortgage-backed securities and other financial instruments. Although we, and our subsidiaries, are not directly exposed to the U.S. housing credit market and do not directly hold any assets related to such financial instruments, these write-downs, combined with other factors, have led to a tightening in the credit markets and to a downturn in the U.S. economy, which has impacted the Chilean economy. In fact, starting in late 2008 and continuing into 2009, many countries in Latin America, including Chile, are experiencing economic slowdowns or recessions. Any of these developments could adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and shares. In the past, Chile has imposed controls on foreign investment and repatriation of investments that affected investments in, and earnings from, our ADSs. Equity investments in Chile by persons who are not Chilean residents have historically been subject to various exchange control regulations that restrict the repatriation of the investments and earnings therefrom. In April 2001, the Central Bank eliminated most of the regulations that affected foreign investors, although foreign investors still have to provide the Central Bank with information related to equity investments and must conduct such operations within the Formal Exchange Market. Additional Chilean restrictions applicable to holders of our ADSs, the disposition of the shares underlying them, the repatriation of the proceeds from such disposition or the payment of dividends may be imposed in the future, and we cannot advise you as to the duration or impact of such restrictions if imposed. 11 Table of Contents If for any reason, including changes in Chilean law, the depositary were unable to convert Chilean pesos to U.S. dollars, investors would receive dividends and other distributions, if any, in Chilean pesos. We are required to withhold 35% tax from any dividend we pay to you. ADSs owners are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares to the same extent as the holders of shares. Dividends received by ADSs owners will be paid net of foreign currency exchange fees and expenses of the depositary and will be subject to Chilean withholding tax of up to 35% of the dividend, which we will withhold and pay to the Chilean tax authorities. Any dividend distributions made in property (other than common stock) will be subject to the same Chilean tax rules as cash dividends. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—Chilean Tax Considerations.” Risks Relating to Chile Our growth and profitability depend on the level of economic activity in Chile. A substantial amount of the transactions in which we participate are with customers doing business in Chile. Accordingly, our ability to increase the amount of business volume and our results of operations and financial condition, in general, are dependent to a significant extent on the level of economic activity in Chile. The global financial system has been experiencing difficulties since August of 2007 and the global financial markets have deteriorated very significantly since September of 2008. The recent global financial crisis has had significant consequences worldwide, including in Chile. It has generally caused capital markets volatility, unavailability of credit, volatile exchange rates and a general slowdown of the world economy. We cannot assure you that the Chilean economy will continue to grow in the future or that future developments in, or affecting, the Chilean economy will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Currency fluctuations could adversely affect the value of our ADSs and any distributions on the ADSs. The Chilean government’s economic policies and any future changes in the value of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar could affect the dollar value of our common stock and our ADSs. The peso has been subject to large fluctuations in the past and could continue with this trend in the future. In the period from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Chilean peso increased approximately 26.7%, as compared to a 7.2% decrease in value in the period from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007. Chilean trading in the shares underlying our ADSs is conducted in pesos. Cash distributions with respect to our shares of common stock are received in Chilean pesos by the depositary, which then converts such amounts to U.S. dollars at the then-prevailing exchange rate for the purpose of making payments in respect of our ADSs. If the value of the Chilean peso falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the dollar value of our ADSs and any distributions to be received from the depositary will be reduced. In addition, the depositary will incur customary currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of our ADSs) in connection with the conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls.” Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates between the peso and the U.S. dollar despite our policy and Chilean regulations related to the general avoidance of material exchange rate mismatches. In order to reduce the effect of exchange rate mismatches we enter into foreign exchange derivative transactions. As of December 31, 2008, the net position of our foreign currency denominated assets and Chilean peso-denominated assets, which contain repayment terms linked to changes in 12 Table of Contents foreign currency exchange rates, exceeded our foreign currency denominated liabilities and Chilean peso-denominated liabilities, which contain repayment terms linked to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, by Ch$51,114 million, or 4.2% of our paid-in capital and reserves. We may decide to change our policy regarding exchange rate mismatches. Regulations that limit such mismatches may also be amended or eliminated. Greater exchange rate mismatches will increase our exposure to the devaluation of the peso, and any such devaluation may impair our capacity to service foreign-currency obligations and may, therefore, materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the existence of general policies and regulations that limit material exchange rate mismatches, the economic policies of the Chilean government and any future fluctuations of the peso against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Inflation could adversely affect the value of our ADSs and financial condition and results of operations. The level of inflation generally has moderated in recent years, especially in comparison to the periods of higher inflation in the 1980s and 1990s. High levels of inflation in Chile could adversely affect the Chilean economy and, indirectly, the value of our ADSs. The annual rate of inflation (as measured by changes in the Consumer Price Index and as reported by the Chilean National Institute of Statistics) during the last five years ended December 31, 2008 and the first five months of 2009 was: Year Inflation(Consumer Price Index) 2004 2.4 2005 3.7 2006 2.6 2007 7.8 2008 7.1 2009 (through May 31) (1.1 ) Source: Chilean National Institute of Statistics Although we benefit from inflation in Chile due to the structure of our assets and liabilities (i.e., we have a significant net asset position indexed to the inflation rate), our operating results and the value of our ADSs in the future may be adversely affected by changing levels of inflation, and Chilean inflation could change significantly from the current level. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial review and Prospects—Inflation.” Chile has corporate disclosure and accounting standards different from those you may be familiar with in the United States. The accounting, financial reporting and securities disclosure requirements in Chile differ from those in the United States. Accordingly, the information about us available to you will not be the same as the information available to shareholders of a U.S. company. There are also important differences between Chilean and U.S. accounting and financial reporting standards. As a result, Chilean financial statements and reported earnings generally differ from those that would be reported based on U.S. accounting and reporting standards. See Note 34 to our audited consolidated financial statements. As a regulated financial institution, as of December 2008, we are required to submit to the Chilean Superintendency of Banks unaudited consolidated and unconsolidated balance sheets and income statements, excluding any note disclosure, prepared in accordance with Chilean GAAP on a monthly basis. The Chilean Superintendency of Banks makes this information public and also makes summary financial information available within approximately three weeks of receipt. Such documentation is also published monthly in Banco de Chile’s website in both Spanish and in English. 13 Table of Contents Such disclosure differs in a number of significant aspects from information generally available in the United States with respect to U.S. financial institutions. Chilean disclosure requirements for publicly listed companies differ from those in the United States in some significant aspects. In addition, although Chilean law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the Chilean securities markets are not as highly regulated and closely supervised as the U.S. securities markets. Chilean law provides for fewer and less well-defined shareholders’ rights. Our corporate affairs are governed by our estatutos, or bylaws, and the laws of Chile. Under such laws, our shareholders may have fewer or less well-defined rights than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. For example, our shareholders would not be entitled to appraisal rights in the event of a merger or other business combination undertaken by us. 14 Table of Contents FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report contains forward-looking statements. These statements appear throughout this annual report, including, without limitation, under “Item 4. Information on the Company” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” Examples of such forward-looking statements include: • projections of operating revenues, net income (loss), net income (loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial items or ratios; • statements of our plans, objectives or goals, including those related to anticipated trends, competition and regulation; • statements about our future economic performance or that of Chile or other countries in which we operate; and • statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “target,” “estimate,” “project,” “potential,” “predict,” “forecast,” “guideline,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “should” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. These statements may relate to (1) our asset growth and financing plans, (2) trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations and (3) the impact of competition and regulations, but are not limited to such topics. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements included in this annual report as a result of various factors (including, without limitation, the actions of competitors, future global economic conditions, market conditions, foreign exchange rates and operating and financial risks), many of which are beyond our control. The occurrence of any such factors not currently expected by us would significantly alter the results set forth in these statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely include, but are not limited to: • changes in general economic, business, political or other conditions in Chile or changes in general economic or business conditions in Latin America; • changes in capital markets in general that may affect policies or attitudes towards lending to Chile or Chilean companies; • increased costs; • unanticipated increases in financing and other costs or the inability to obtain additional debt or equity financing on attractive terms; and • the factors discussed under “—Risk Factors.” You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date that they were made. This cautionary statement should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we may issue in the future. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to such forward-looking statements after the filing of this annual report to reflect later events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 15 Table of Contents 