ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We believe that the following risk factors address the known material risks related to our business, partnership structure and debt obligations, as well as the material tax risks to our common unitholders. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as any related benefits of owning our securities, could be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, our ability to pay quarterly distributions to our common unitholders at current levels or to increase our quarterly distributions in the future, could be materially impaired. Our ability to pay quarterly distributions depends primarily on cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and credit facilities, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses and may be unable to pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations is largely dependent on our ability to successfully manage our business which may also be affected by economic, financial, competitive, and regulatory factors that are beyond our control. To the extent we do not have adequate cash reserves, our ability to pay quarterly distributions to our common unitholders at current levels could be materially impaired. We depend upon Sunoco, Inc. (“Sunoco”) for a substantial portion of the refined products and crude oil transported on our pipelines and handled at our terminals, and if Sunoco were to significantly reduce the volumes transported through our pipelines or handled at our terminals it could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Sunoco accounted for approximately 56 percent of our Refined Products Pipeline System total revenues, 46 percent of our Terminal Facilities total revenues, and 12 percent of our Crude Oil Pipeline System total revenues. The balance of our revenues was received from unaffiliated customers. We expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from Sunoco for the foreseeable future. Sunoco is a refiner and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products that is operated and managed separately from us and is subject to different business and operational risks than us. Sunoco actively manages its assets and operations independently of ours, and therefore, changes of some nature, possibly material to our business relationship, may occur at some point in the future. Because several of our terminal facilities are located at, and dedicated to, refineries that are owned and operated by Sunoco, if Sunoco were to significantly decrease throughput volumes at these terminals, because of business or operational difficulties or strategic decisions by its management, it is unlikely that we would be able to utilize any additional capacity at these terminal facilities to service third party customers without substantial capital outlays and delays, if at all, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, if Sunoco were to significantly decrease the throughput transported on our pipelines or the volumes of crude oil or refined products handled at our other terminals, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Sunoco does not have any minimum throughput obligations at our refined products terminals or the Marcus Hook Tank Farm. Sunoco currently has minimum storage and throughput obligation at our Fort Mifflin Terminal Complex and at our Inkster Terminal. Because our facilities are well situated to handle Sunoco’s refining and marketing supply chain needs we expect that Sunoco will continue to utilize our pipelines and terminals. However, if Sunoco reduces its use of our facilities, it could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 20 Table of Contents A sustained decrease in demand for refined products in the markets served by our pipelines and terminals could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The following are material factors that could lead to a sustained decrease in market demand for refined products: • a sustained recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower purchases of refined petroleum products; • higher refined products prices due to an increase in the market price of crude oil, changes in economic conditions, or other factors; • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasoline or other refined products; • a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient or alternative fuel vehicles or an increase in fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, pending legislation proposing to mandate higher fuel economy, or otherwise; and • a temporary or permanent material increase in the price of refined products as compared to alternative sources of refined products available to our customers. A material decrease in demand or distribution of crude oil available for transport through our Crude Oil Pipeline System or Terminal Facilities could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The volume of crude oil transported through our crude oil pipelines and terminal facilities depends on the availability of attractively priced crude oil produced or received in the areas serviced by our assets. A period of sustained crude oil price declines could lead to a decline in drilling activity, production and import levels in these areas. Similarly, a period of sustained increases in the price of crude oil supplied from any of these areas, as compared to alternative sources of crude oil available to our customers, could materially reduce demand for crude oil in these areas. In either case, the volumes of crude oil transported in our crude oil pipelines and terminal facilities could decline, and it could likely be difficult to secure alternative sources of attractively priced crude oil supply in a timely fashion or at all. If we are unable to replace any significant volume declines with additional volumes from other sources, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Any reduction in the capability of our shippers to utilize either our pipelines or interconnecting third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes transported in our pipelines and through our terminals. Sunoco and the other users of our pipelines and terminals are dependent upon our pipelines, as well as connections to third-party pipelines, to receive and deliver crude oil and refined products. Any interruptions or reduction in the capabilities of our pipelines or these interconnecting pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes would result in reduced volumes transported in our pipelines or through our terminals. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volume over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to our existing shippers on these interconnecting pipelines could be reduced, which also could reduce volumes transported in our pipelines or through our terminals. Allocation reductions of this nature are not infrequent and are beyond our control. Any such interruptions or allocation reductions that, individually or in the aggregate, are material or continue for a sustained period of time could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected materially and adversely. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving construction of new facilities (or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted operating results. Although we evaluate and monitor each capital spending project and try to anticipate difficulties that may arise, such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of factors that are beyond our control, including: • denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; • disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; • severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; • market-related increases in a project’s debt or equity financing costs; and • nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. Our forecasted operating results also are based upon our projections of future market fundamentals that are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, availability to our customers of attractively priced alternative supplies of crude oil and refined products and overall customer demand. Potential future acquisitions and expansions may increase substantially the level of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, and we may be unable to integrate them effectively into our existing operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement or diversify our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future material acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. In some cases, we have indemnified the previous owners and operators of acquired assets. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. In addition, the terms of an acquisition may require us to assume certain prior known or unknown liabilities for which we may not be indemnified or have adequate insurance. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. Our operations and those of our customers and suppliers may be subject to operational hazards or unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, and other events beyond our control. If one or more of the facilities that we own or any third-party facilities that we receive from or deliver to, are damaged by any disaster, accident, catastrophe or other 22 Table of Contents event, our operations could be significantly interrupted. These interruptions might involve a loss of equipment or life, injury, extensive property damage, or maintenance and repair outages. The duration of the interruption will depend on the seriousness of the damages or required repairs. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance to cover these types of interruptions, or in coverage amounts desired, at reasonable rates. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Any event that interrupts the revenues generated by our operations, or which causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to the credit and other counterparty risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business. We have various credit terms with virtually all of our customers, and our customers have varying degrees of creditworthiness. Although we evaluate the creditworthiness of each of our customers, we may not always be able to fully anticipate or detect deterioration in their creditworthiness and overall financial condition, which could expose us to an increased risk of nonpayment or other default under our contracts and other arrangements with them. In the event that a material customer or customers default on their payment obligations to us, this could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines or products stored in or distributed through our terminals, or reduced crude oil marketing margins or volumes. Mergers between existing customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing systems instead of ours in those markets where the systems compete. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Rate regulation or market conditions may not allow us to recover the full amount of increases in our costs. A successful challenge to our rates could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The primary rate-making methodology of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) is price indexing. We use this methodology in many of our interstate markets. In an order issued in March 2006, FERC announced that, effective July 1, 2006, the index would equal the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 1.3 percent (previously, the index was equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods). This index is to be in effect through July 2011. If the changes in the index are not large enough to fully reflect actual increases to our costs, our financial condition could be adversely affected. If the index results in a rate increase that is substantially in excess of the pipeline’s actual cost increases, or it results in a rate decrease that is substantially less than the pipeline’s actual cost decrease, the rates may be protested, and, if successful, result in the lowering of the pipeline’s rates. The FERC’s rate-making methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. Under the Energy Policy Act adopted in 1992, certain interstate pipeline rates were deemed just and reasonable or “grandfathered.” On our FERC-regulated pipelines, most of our revenues are derived from such grandfathered rates. A person challenging a grandfathered rate must, as a threshold matter, establish a substantial change since the date of enactment of the Act, in either the economic circumstances or the nature of the service that formed the basis for the rate. If the FERC were to find a substantial change in circumstances, then the existing rates could be subject to detailed review. There is a risk that some rates could be found to be in excess of levels justified by our cost of service. In such event, the FERC would order us to reduce rates prospectively and 23 Table of Contents could order us to pay reparations to shippers. Reparations could be required for a period of up two years prior to the date of filing the complaint in the case of rates that are not grandfathered and for the period starting with the filing of the complaint in the case of grandfathered rates. In addition, a state commission could also investigate our intrastate rates or terms and conditions of service on its own initiative or at the urging of a shipper or other interested party. If a state commission found that our rates exceeded levels justified by our cost of service, the state commission could order us to reduce our rates. Potential changes to current rate-making methods and procedures may impact the federal and state regulations under which we will operate in the future. In addition, if the FERC’s petroleum pipeline ratemaking methodology changes, the new methodology could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and operational safety that could require substantial expenditures. Our pipelines, gathering systems, and terminal operations are subject to increasingly strict environmental and safety laws and regulations. The transportation and storage of refined products and crude oil result in a risk that refined products, crude oil, and other hydrocarbons may be suddenly or gradually released into the environment, potentially causing substantial expenditures for a response action, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies for natural resources damages, personal injury, or property damage to private parties and significant business interruption. We own or lease a number of properties that have been used to store or distribute refined products and crude oil for many years. Many of these properties also have been previously owned or operated by third parties whose handling, disposal, or release of hydrocarbons and other wastes were not under our control, and for which, in some cases, we have indemnified the previous owners and operators. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and, to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. We may be unable to recover these costs through increased revenues. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the petroleum products that we store and transport. The petroleum products that we store and transport are sold by our customers for consumption into the public market. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to commodities sold into the public market. Changes in product quality specifications could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require the expenditure of significant capital. In addition, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of products transported and stored in our pipeline systems and terminal facilities and could require the construction of additional storage to segregate products with different specifications. We may be unable to recover these costs through increased revenues. In addition, the operations of our butane blending business are reliant upon gasoline vapor pressure specifications. Significant changes in such specifications could reduce butane blending opportunities, which would affect our ability to market our butane blending services licenses and which would ultimately affect our ability to recover the costs incurred to acquire and integrate the butane blending business. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services. The U.S. Senate has considered legislation to restrict U.S. emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (“GHG”) that may contribute to global warming and climate change. Many states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun implementing legal measures to reduce GHG emissions. The 24 Table of Contents U.S. House of Representatives has previously approved legislation to establish a “cap-and-trade” program, whereby the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major GHG emission sources so they could continue to emit GHGs into the atmosphere. The cost of such allowances would be expected to escalate significantly over time, making the combustion of carbon-based fuels (e.g., refined petroleum products, oil and natural gas) increasingly expensive. Beginning in 2011, current EPA regulations will require specified large domestic GHG sources to report emissions above a certain threshold occurring after January 1, 2010. Our facilities will not be subject to this reporting requirement since our GHG emissions are below the applicable threshold. In addition, the EPA has proposed new regulations, under the federal Clean Air Act, that would require a reduction in GHG emissions from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. It is not possible at this time to predict how pending legislation or new regulations to address GHG emissions would impact our business. However, the adoption and implementation of federal, state, or local laws or regulations limiting GHG emissions in the U.S. could adversely affect the demand for our crude oil or refined products transportation and storage services, and result in increased compliance costs, reduced volumes or additional operating restrictions. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation’s pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. Any terrorist attack at our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries, or terminals could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our risk management policies cannot eliminate all commodity risk, and our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. In addition, any non-compliance with our risk management policies could result in significant financial losses. We follow risk management practices designed to minimize commodity risk, and engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of refined products. These hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices received. In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for such refined products. The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions that are effective economically (whether to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates), these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. Accordingly, our financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point. In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in a hedging transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to commodity prices. Our financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. We have adopted risk management policies designed to manage risks associated with our businesses. However, these policies cannot eliminate all price-related risks, and there is also the risk of non-compliance with such policies. We cannot make any assurances that we will detect and prevent all violations of our risk management practices and policies, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Any violations of our risk management practices or policies by our employees or agents could result in significant financial losses. 25 Table of Contents We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we lease certain facilities and equipment, and we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which certain of our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements. Whether we have the power of eminent domain for our pipelines varies from state to state, depending upon the type of pipeline (e.g., crude oil, or refined products) and the laws of the particular state. In either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. Our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our business if we were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which our pipelines are located. Additionally, certain facilities and equipment (or parts thereof) used by us are leased from third parties for specific periods. Our inability to renew equipment leases or otherwise maintain the right to utilize such facilities and equipment on acceptable terms, or the increased costs to maintain such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. A portion of our general and administrative services, covered under our Omnibus Agreement with Sunoco, have been outsourced to third-party service providers. Fraudulent activity or misuse of proprietary data involving our outsourcing partners could expose us to additional liability. As a result of Sunoco’s outsourcing initiatives, more third parties are involved in processing our information and data. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud or other forms of deception, could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, lead to reputational damage, increase our compliance costs, or otherwise harm our business. 26 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR PARTNERSHIP STRUCTURE Our general partner’s discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner may reduce operating surplus by establishing cash reserves to provide funds for our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement provides that our general partner may reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to our unitholders in any one or more of the next four quarters. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for current distribution to our unitholders. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they have limited rights under the Partnership agreement to remove our general partner without its consent, which could lower the trading price of the common units. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or its board of directors and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the members of our general partner, all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sunoco. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a control premium in the trading price. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of our general partner from transferring its ownership interest in the general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner with its own appointees. Sunoco and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary responsibilities, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Sunoco indirectly owns and controls our general partner and owns approximately 31 percent of our partnership interests, including a 2 percent general partner interest. Conflicts of interest may arise between Sunoco and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • Sunoco, as a shipper on our pipelines, and a customer at our terminals, could seek lower tariff rates or terminalling fees, or could determine not to utilize our facilities; • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Sunoco to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, including whether to increase or decrease refinery production, whether to shut down or reconfigure a refinery, or what markets to pursue or grow. Sunoco’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the shareholders of Sunoco; 27 Table of Contents • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Sunoco, in resolving conflicts of interest; • under our partnership agreement, our general partner has limited liability and restricted fiduciary duties with respect to actions that, without these limitations and restrictions, might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • under our partnership agreement, the remedies available to our unitholders with respect to conduct by our general partner that may constitute a breach of fiduciary duty have been limited; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities, and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders and the amount received by our general partner in respect of its incentive distribution rights (“IDRs”); • our general partner determines which costs incurred by Sunoco and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us; and • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including the pipelines and terminals storage and throughput agreements with Sunoco. We are a holding company. We conduct our operations through our subsidiaries and depend on cash flow from our subsidiaries to pay distributions to our unitholders and service our debt obligations. We are a holding company. We conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders and to service our debt is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries. In addition, we are dependent on the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments from our subsidiaries to us. Any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments from our subsidiaries to us could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries also will be contingent upon the profitability of our subsidiaries. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries we may not be able to pay distributions to our unitholders or pay interest or principal on our debt securities when due. Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions, even where the purpose or effect of the borrowing benefits the general partner or its affiliates. Our general partner is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sunoco, and Sunoco owns approximately 31 percent of our partnership interests, including a 2 percent general partner interest, and all of our IDRs. Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds from affiliates of Sunoco or from third parties in order to pay cash distributions to our unitholders and to our general partner, including distributions with respect to our general partner’s IDRs. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price, may not receive a return on the investment, and may incur a tax liability upon the sale. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders’ ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of common units or other limited partner interests, including limited partner interests that rank senior to our common units, without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of 28 Table of Contents additional common units, or other equity securities of equal or senior rank, will decrease the proportionate ownership interest of existing unitholders and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our common unitholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common units. Sunoco and its affiliates may engage in limited competition with us. Sunoco and its affiliates may engage in limited competition with us. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, Sunoco and its affiliates have agreed not to engage in the business of purchasing crude oil at the wellhead or operating refined products or crude oil pipelines or terminals or liquefied petroleum gas (“LPG”) terminals in the continental United States. The Omnibus Agreement, however, does not apply to: • certain businesses operated by Sunoco or any of its subsidiaries; • any logistics asset constructed by Sunoco or any of its subsidiaries within a manufacturing or refining facility in connection with the operation of that facility; • any business that Sunoco or any of its subsidiaries acquires or constructs that has a fair market value of less than $5 million; and • any business that Sunoco or any of its subsidiaries acquires or constructs that has a fair market value of $5 million or more if we have been offered the opportunity to purchase the business for fair market value, and we decline to do so with the concurrence of our conflicts committee. Upon a change of control of Sunoco or a sale of our general partner by Sunoco, the non-competition provisions of the Omnibus Agreement may terminate. A unitholder may not have limited liability if a state or federal court finds that we are not in compliance with the applicable statutes or that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. A unitholder could be held liable in some circumstances for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a state or federal court determined that: • we had been conducting business in any state without complying with the applicable limited partnership statute; or • the right or the exercise of the right by the unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to the partnership agreement, or to take other action under the partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business. Under applicable state law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, including our debts and environmental liabilities, if any, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT References under this heading to “we,” “us,” and “our” mean Sunoco Logistics Partners Operations L.P. 29 Table of Contents We may not be able to obtain funding, or obtain funding on acceptable terms, to meet our future capital needs because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been impacted by, among other things, significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated market. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets could be higher and the availability of funds from those markets could be diminished if we seek access to those markets. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If additional funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Restrictions in our debt agreements may prevent us from engaging in some beneficial transactions or paying distributions to unitholders. As of December 31, 2010, our total outstanding long-term indebtedness was approximately $1.2 billion. Our payment of principal and interest on the debt will reduce the cash available for distribution on our units, as will our obligation to repurchase the senior notes upon the occurrence of specified events involving a change in control of our general partner. In addition, we are prohibited by our credit facilities and the senior notes from making cash distributions during an event of default, or if the payment of a distribution would cause an event of default, under any of our debt agreements. Our leverage and various limitations in our credit facilities and our senior notes may reduce our ability to incur additional debt, engage in some transactions, and capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new debt could have similar or greater restrictions. We could incur a substantial amount of debt in the future, which could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We are permitted to incur additional debt, subject to certain limitations under our revolving credit facilities and, in the case of secured debt, under the indenture governing the notes. If we incur additional debt in the future, our increased leverage could, for example: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt securities or other indebtedness and, if we fail to comply with the requirements of the other indebtedness, could result in an event of default under our debt securities or such other indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow from working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • detract from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors. 30 Table of Contents Rising short-term interest rates could increase our financing costs and reduce the amount of cash we generate. As of December 31, 2010, we had $31 million of floating-rate debt. As a result, we have exposure to changes in short-term interest rates. Rising short-term rates could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Any reduction in our credit ratings or in Sunoco’s credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We currently maintain an investment grade rating by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Ratings. However, our current ratings may not remain in effect for any given period of time and a rating may be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. If Moody’s, S&P or Fitch Ratings were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs could significantly increase, which would adversely affect our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Further, due to our relationship with Sunoco, any down-grading in Sunoco’s credit ratings could also result in a down-grading in our credit ratings. Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. TAX RISKS TO OUR COMMON UNIT HOLDERS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, treats us as a corporation or we become subject to a material amount of entity level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this matter. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the ones we take. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may impact adversely the market for our common units, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax at the corporate tax rate, and likely would pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders generally would be taxed again as corporate distributions. Treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or to otherwise subject us to a material level of entity-level taxation. States are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. If any of these states were to impose a tax on us, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. The partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to a material level of entity-level taxation for federal, state, or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profit interests during any twelve-month period will result in our termination as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Our partnership will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month 31 Table of Contents period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. A sale or exchange would occur, for example, if we sold our business or merged with another company, or if any of our unitholders, including Sunoco, Inc. or any of their affiliates, sold or transferred their partnership interests in us. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all of our unitholders which could result in us filing two tax returns (and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s) for one calendar year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which will be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our limited partner units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their limited partner units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those limited partner units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income the unitholder was allocated for a unit, which decreased their tax basis in that unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if the limited partner unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that limited partner unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our limited partner units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if they do not live in any of those 32 Table of Contents jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct our business and own assets in more than a dozen states, most of which impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Moreover, any such modification could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception which allows publicly traded partnerships that generate qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our business activities, or affect the tax consequences of an investment in our common units. For example, members of Congress have been considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income and the treatment of certain types of income earned from partnerships. While these specific proposals would not appear to affect our treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 