D. RISK FACTORS Our business and financial condition and results of operations are subject to various changing business, competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China and worldwide. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Demand for our products is sensitive to cyclical fluctuations and general economic conditions, and a reduction in demand could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our products is sensitive to cyclical fluctuations and is significantly affected by general economic conditions. The global economy started to recover from the global financial crisis, which started in the fourth quarter of 2008, in the second half of 2009 and continued to gain its momentum in 2010. As a result, our production and sales volumes increased significantly in 2010 and continued to increase in the first half of 2011. However, since the third quarter of 2011, the European debt crisis and the continued weakness and uncertainty regarding the durability of the emerging economic recovery have adversely affected the global economy and resulted in a significant decrease in our sales volumes. If the European debt crisis or the weakened global economic recovery continues or a global recession recurs, demand for our products may continue to decline. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it challenging for us to forecast our results of operations, make business decisions and identify risks that may affect our business. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Volatility in alumina, primary aluminum and other non-ferrous metal prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 The prices of our key products have historically fluctuated in response to general economic conditions, supply and demand and the level of global inventories. We price our alumina and primary aluminum products by reference to international and domestic market prices, and domestic supply and demand, each of which may fluctuate beyond our control. In the second half of 2009, as the global economy started to recover from the global financial crisis, demand for alumina and primary aluminum gradually increased. In 2010, the Australian FOB spot price of alumina and the international spot price of primary aluminum on the LME reached a high of US$390 per tonne and US$2,447 per tonne, respectively. In the first half of 2011, the Australian FOB spot price of alumina and the international spot price of primary aluminum on the LME continued to increase and reached a high of US$440 per tonne and US$2,802 per tonne, respectively. However, since the third quarter of 2011, demand for alumina and primary aluminum has been negatively affected by the European debt crisis. As a result, the Australian FOB spot price of alumina and the international spot price of primary aluminum on the LME have been generally decreasing and reached a low of US$308 per tonne and US$1,837 per tonne, respectively, in 2012. Our average external selling price of self-produced alumina and primary aluminum decreased by 6.8% and 7.5%, respectively, from 2011 to 2012. Because most of our costs are fixed, we may not be able to respond promptly to a sudden decrease in alumina or primary aluminum prices. See "- Failure to maintain optimal utilization of our production facilities will adversely affect our gross and operating margins." As a result of the implementation of our operational structural adjustment exercise, we established our trading business as a new operating segment in 2010. The trading segment primarily engages in the trading of alumina, aluminum ingots, other non-ferrous metal products and coal products. The outsourced products are mainly procured from third-party suppliers on the spot market, under long-term agreements or through short-term futures and options transactions. Sales of products manufactured by our manufacturing subsidiaries and branches through Chalco Trading are also included in the trading segment (see further discussion in Note 5b to our audited financial statements). The profits of our trading business may be negatively affected by fluctuations in the price of the non-ferrous metal products and coal products we trade. As the profit margin of trading is based on price fluctuations in the short term, we need to make the correct prediction of the price fluctuations of the non-ferrous metal products and coal products on the markets to ensure the profit margin. If the price fluctuations on the market do not match our prediction, we may incur substantial losses. In addition, as we generate profit from the differences between the purchasing and sales prices of the non-ferrous metal products we deal in, significant fluctuations in the prices of the commodities we deal in may cause the value of the outsourced products in transit or in inventory to decline, and if the carrying value of our existing inventories exceeds the market price in the future periods, we may need to make additional provisions for our inventories' value. As a result, any significant fluctuation in international market prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires substantial capital investments that we may be unable to fulfill. Our plans to upgrade and expand our production capacity will require substantial capital expenditures. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - D. Property, Plants and Equipment - Our Expansion." We may also need additional funding for debt servicing, working capital, other investments, potential acquisitions and joint ventures and other corporate requirements. As a result, we expect to incur total capital expenditures of approximately RMB18.8 billion in 2013. We may seek external financing to satisfy our capital needs if cash generated from our operations is insufficient to fund our capital expenditures or if our actual capital expenditures and investments exceed our plans. Our ability to obtain external financing at reasonable costs and on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties. Failure to obtain sufficient funding for our development plans could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our failure to successfully manage our business expansion would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to adequately manage our business growth, which we have achieved through organic growth, acquisitions and joint ventures. Our expansion has created, and will continue to place, substantial demand on our resources. Managing our growth and integrating the acquired businesses will require us to, among other things: * comply with the laws, regulations and policies applicable to the acquired businesses; * gain market acceptance for new products and services and establish relationships with new customers and suppliers; * achieve sufficient utilization of new production facilities to recover costs; * obtain timely approval for the construction or expansion of alumina refineries, primary aluminum smelters and mining projects as required under PRC law; * manage relationships with employees, customers and business partners during the course of our business expansion and integration of new businesses; * attract, train and motivate members of our management and workforce; 13 * access debt, equity or other capital resources to fund our business expansion, which may divert financial resources otherwise available for other purposes; * divert significant management attention and resources from our other businesses; and * strengthen our operational, financial and management controls, particularly those of our newly acquired subsidiaries, to maintain the reliability of our reporting processes. Any difficulty meeting the foregoing or similar requirements could significantly delay or otherwise constrain our ability to implement our expansion plans, or result in failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition or write-offs of acquired assets or investments, which in turn would limit our ability to increase operational efficiency, reduce marginal manufacturing costs or otherwise strengthen our market position. If we are not able to manage our growth successfully, our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Risks associated with entering into new areas of business. Since 2010, we have participated in joint ventures and made strategic investment in coal mining and iron ore production. We may not achieve our business objectives due to our lack of experience in these new areas. For example, coal mining and the production of iron ore involve processes and technologies that are significantly different from the production of alumina, primary aluminum and aluminum fabrication products. We will also need to establish relationships with customers of iron ore and coal products, which will be different from our existing customers. As such, we face various risks relating to the commencement of these new business operations, including our potential failure to: * attract, train, motivate and retain skilled employees for our coal mining and the production of iron ore business; * keep abreast of evolving industry standards and respond to competitive market conditions; * maintain adequate control of our expenses in relation to such new businesses; and * achieve acceptable quality standard for our coal and iron ore products. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our joint ventures and strategic investment may not be successful. We may from time to time enter into joint venture arrangements to grow our business and operations. For example, in 2012, we established Chalco Liupanshui with Liupanshui Hengtaihe Mining Investment Co., Ltd. We currently hold 49% of the equity interest in Chalco Liupanshui with the remaining 51% of the equity interest held by Liupanshui Hengtaihe Mining Investment Co., Ltd. In addition, we also acquired 45% of the equity interest in Dongdong Coal from Shaanxi Sanqin Energy Co., Ltd. and 25% of the equity interest in Guizhou Yuneng from Chongqing Wujiang Shiye (Group) Co., Ltd. in 2012. We have non-controlling interests in a number of joint ventures. Although we have not been materially constrained by the nature of our ownership interests, no assurance can be given that our joint venture partners will not exercise their power of veto or their controlling influence in any of our ventures in a way that will hinder our corporate objectives and reduce any anticipated cost savings or revenue enhancement resulting from these joint ventures. In addition, whether or not we hold majority interests or maintain operational control in such joint ventures, such arrangements necessarily involve special risks and our partners may: * have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with or opposed to ours; * exercise veto rights so as to block actions that we believe to be in our or the joint venture's best interests; * take action contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the investments; or * as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture, other agreements, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects. Failure to maintain optimal utilization of our production facilities will adversely affect our gross and operating margins. During 2012, we expanded the production capacity by upgrading or remoulding some of our alumina and primary aluminum production facilities. However, our primary aluminum production may be adversely affected by the administrative policies and orders implemented by the local governments to fulfill China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals. Please see "- We are subject to administrative policies and orders relating to China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals that could adversely affect our production." We also increased our external purchases of alumina and primary aluminum for trading purposes to capitalize on fluctuating market prices in 2012 and to enhance resource planning to achieve cost savings in our production. The increase in our external purchases has reduced our utilization of certain production facilities, but has not resulted in a proportionate decrease in fixed costs such as leases and depreciation of plant, property and equipment. Given our high proportion of fixed costs, failure to maintain historical utilization rates may adversely affect our gross and operating margins. 14 Furthermore, we expect our production capacity expansion in recent years to increase our costs of sales, in particular, depreciation and amortization costs. If we are able to maintain satisfactory facility utilization rates and increase our production output, our production capacity expansion will enable us to reduce our unit costs through economies of scale, as fixed costs will be spread over a higher volume of output units. Conversely, underutilization of our existing and newly acquired or constructed production facilities may increase our marginal production costs and prevent us from realizing the intended economic benefits of our expansion. For example, as a result of the decrease in our procurement of imported bauxite from Indonesia in response to the change in Indonesian bauxite export policy, since May 2012, we have suspended the operations of certain alumina production facilities in our Shandong branch, Henan branch and Zhongzhou branch with an aggregate annual designed production capacity of 170,000 tonnes, which adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. Please see "- Our profitability and operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain a steady supply of raw materials at competitive prices." We may be required to record impairment charges in the future. If business conditions deteriorate, long lived assets need to be reviewed for possible impairment. An impairment loss needs to be recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. We recorded impairment loss on property, plant and equipment during the three years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. We cannot guarantee that we will not incur increased impairment loss in the future, due to various reasons including, but are not limited to, a sustained decline in our stock price, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base or a material adverse change in our relationship with significant customers. If we record significant impairment charges, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy, and our profitability may decline if energy costs rise or if our energy supplies are interrupted. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy. Although we generally expect to meet the energy requirements for our alumina refineries and primary aluminum smelters from a combination of internal and external sources, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by the following: * significant increases in electricity costs; or * curtailment of the operation of one or more refineries or smelters due to our inability to extend energy supply contracts upon their expiration. Cost of electricity is the principal production cost in our primary aluminum operations. Our average cost per kilowatt-hour, or kWh, of electricity increased by 2.4% from 2011 to 2012 primarily due to the electricity price adjustment under state policy. We expect the PRC economy will continue to grow and as a result, we expect demand for and prices of electricity to increase accordingly. If we are unable to pass on increases in energy costs to our customers, our operating margin, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Our business and industry may be affected by the development of alternative energy sources and climate change. Our operations consume substantial amounts of coal. Coal combustion generates significant greenhouse gas and other pollutants, and the effects of climate change resulting from global warming and increased pollution levels may provide incentives for governments to promote or invest in "green" energy technologies such as wind, solar, nuclear and biomass power plants, or to reduce their consumption of conventional energy sources such as coal. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. These regulatory mechanisms may impact our operations directly or indirectly through customers or our supply chain. We may have to increase our capital expenditures in order to comply with such revised or new legislation or regulations, and may realize changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for our products and indirectly, from changes in costs of goods sold, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we have invested in coal mining operations. We are affected by the growth of the PRC thermal power industry, which relies on coal as main source of fuel. The PRC thermal power industry may be affected by the development of alternative energy sources, climate change and global environmental factors. In particular, pursuant to China's 12th Five-Year Plan for Environmental Protection, the PRC government plans to continue to encourage the development of alternative energy sources, such as wind power, solar power, biomass and geothermal energy, in the next five years. As such, alternative energy industries may rapidly develop and gradually gain mainstream acceptance in the PRC and the rest of the world. If alternative energy technologies continue to develop and prove suitable for wide commercial application in the PRC and overseas, demand for conventional energy sources, such as coal, could be reduced, which could have a material and adverse effect on the coal mining industry and, consequently, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of power could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Production of primary aluminum requires a substantial and continuous supply of electricity. Interruptions in the supply of power can result in costly production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and the waste of production in progress. A sudden loss of power, if prolonged, can cause damage to or the destruction of production equipment and facilities. In such an event, we may need to expend significant capital and resources to repair or replace the affected production equipment to restore our production capacity. Various regions across China have experienced shortages and disruptions in electrical power, especially during peak demand in the summer or during severe weather conditions. We cannot assure you that our operations will not suffer from shortages or disruptions in electrical power, any occurrence of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations consume substantial amounts of coal, and our operations may be adversely affected if we are not able to procure sufficient coal or if coal prices rise significantly. We rely heavily on coal as our energy and fuel source in our production of alumina. As we increase our alumina refining capacity, our consumption of coal will increase accordingly. If we are not able to obtain the amount of coal needed for our production due to a shortage of coal, constraints on coal transportation or any other reason, we may be forced to reduce our production output or suspend our alumina refining operations, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have acquired equity interest in a number of coal mines, we expect to continue to rely substantially on third-party coal suppliers for the supply of coal. In addition, although our average purchase price of thermal coal per unit tonne decreased by 6.9% from 2011 to 2012, we expect the price of coal to increase as the PRC economy continues to grow. If we are unable to pass on increases in coal prices to our customers or offset price increases through productivity improvements, our operating margin, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be unable to continue competing successfully in the markets in which we operate. We face competition from both domestic and international primary aluminum producers. Our principal competitors are domestic smelters, some of which are consolidating and expanding their production capacities. These smelters compete with our primary aluminum operations on the basis of cost, quality and pricing. In addition, we face increasing competition from international alumina and primary aluminum suppliers as a result of the elimination of tariffs on imports of primary aluminum and alumina into China. We also face increasing competition from domestic and international aluminum fabrication products suppliers. Increasing competition in our product markets may reduce our selling prices or sales volumes, which will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to price our products competitively, maintain or increase our current share of China's alumina and primary aluminum markets or otherwise maintain our competitiveness, our financial condition, results of operations and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Our overseas expansion exposes us to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we plan to operate. We are currently undertaking a number of overseas projects, including the iron ore mining joint venture project in Guinea in West Africa and bauxite mining project in Laos, which require significant capital investment. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - A. History and Development of the Company - Overseas Development." As we are new to these overseas markets, we cannot assure you that our overseas expansion or investments will be successful or that we will not suffer foreign exchange losses in connection with our overseas investment. For example, in 2007, we entered into a development agreement with the Queensland State Government of Australia ("Queensland State Government") to develop a bauxite and alumina project, the Aurukun Project. However, due to the change in market conditions of global aluminum industries, the Aurukun Project could no longer continue under the original framework. We engaged a series of negotiations with the Queensland State Government, but in June 2011, the Queensland State Government terminated the negotiation. As a result, we had a total impairment charge of RMB651 million of the carrying value of the capitalized development expenditures pertaining to the Aurukun Project in 2010 and 2011. In addition, our overseas business is subject to the risk of political and economic instability associated with these countries. Our profitability and operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain a steady supply of raw materials at competitive prices. Historically, the price for bauxite, our most important raw material for alumina production, has been volatile. We obtain bauxite for our operations from three major sources, including mines that we own or jointly operate and external suppliers. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - B. Business Overview - Raw Materials - Alumina - Supply." The extent to which we procure bauxite from each of these sources affect the security of our supply or cost of bauxite. In May 2012, the Government of Indonesia imposed a ban on the exportation of 14 types of unprocessed minerals, including bauxite, with an exception for mining companies that plan to build local processing facilities. For mining companies with plans to build local processing facilities, the Government of Indonesia imposes a 20% export tariff on the exportation of these 14 types of minerals. We rely on Indonesia as a major source of imported bauxite. In response to the change in Indonesian bauxite export policy, we reduced our procurement of bauxite from Indonesia, which resulted in a decrease in our total supply of imported bauxite. As a result, since May 2012, we have suspended the operations of certain alumina production facilities in our Shandong branch, Henan branch and Zhongzhou branch with an aggregate annual designed production capacity of 170,000 tonnes. In addition, our results of operations are affected by increases in the cost of other raw materials and other key inputs such as energy. If we cannot obtain a steady supply of key raw materials at competitive prices, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Transportation interruptions may affect our shipment of raw materials and delivery of products. Our operations require the reliable transportation of raw materials and supplies to our refining, smelting and fabrication sites and finished products to our customers. Our alumina products and aluminum fabrication products are mainly transported by rail or trucks, and our primary aluminum products are delivered to our customers primarily by rail. If we are unable to make timely deliveries due to logistical and transportation disruptions, our production, reputation and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not successfully develop and implement new methods and processes. A main objective of our research and development is to develop new methods and processes to improve the efficiency of our alumina refineries to increase our production yield from bauxite with low alumina-to-silica ratio. If the supply of high quality bauxite with a high alumina-to-silica ratio in China declines, our failure to develop such methods and processes and incorporate them into our production could impede our efforts to reduce unit costs and diminish our competiveness. In 2012, partly due to the decline in the quality of domestically sourced bauxite, our average cost of alumina per tonne increased by approximately RMB152 from that in 2011. The bauxite reserve data in this annual report are only estimates, which may prove to be inaccurate. The bauxite reserve data on which we base our production, revenue and expenditure plans are estimates that we have developed internally and may prove inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. If these estimates are inaccurate or the indicated tonnages are not recovered, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We require a significant amount of cash to meet our capital requirements, including the expansion and upgrade of our production capacity, as well as to fund our existing operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately RMB67.9 billion in outstanding short-term bonds and short-term bank borrowings (including the current portion of long-term bank and other borrowings) and RMB36.6 billion in outstanding long and medium-term bonds and long-term bank and other borrowings (excluding the current portion of these borrowings). On February 9, 2012, we issued medium-term bonds in the aggregate principal amount of RMB2 billion with three-year maturity. On October 26, 2012, we issued medium-term bonds in the aggregate principal amount of RMB3 billion with five-year maturity. In 2012, we also issued six tranches of short-term bonds in the aggregate principal amount of RMB16.5 billion, each with one-year maturity. On January 18, 2013, we issued long-term bonds in the aggregate principal amount of RMB3 billion with five-year maturity. On March 14, 2013, we issued short-term bonds in the principal amount of RMB3 billion with one-year maturity. See Note 20 and Note 38 to our audited consolidated financial statements for more detailed information about our notes. As a result, we had net current liabilities as of December 31, 2012. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our operations, including: 17 * making it more difficult for us to fulfill payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt, including repayment of our debt and credit facilities should we be unable to obtain extensions for any such debt or credit facilities before they mature. As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding long-term borrowings (including long-term loans and borrowings, medium-term notes and long-term bonds, and the current portion of long-term loans and borrowings and medium-term notes) maturing in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and after 2017 in the aggregate principal amount of RMB 10.9 billion, RMB10.0 billion, RMB9.8 billion, RMB6.7 billion, RMB6.1 billion and RMB4.1 billion, respectively; * reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; * exposing us to interest rates fluctuations on our borrowings and the risk of being unable to rollover, extend or refinance our borrowings as necessary; * potentially increasing the cost of additional financing and making it more difficult for us to conduct equity financings in the capital markets or obtain government approvals to seek additional financing; and * putting pressure on our ADS price due to concerns of our ability to repay our debt. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt depends on our ability to generate cash flows in the future or to refinance such debt. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet such obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek additional equity or debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our ADS holders. A shortage of financing could in turn impose limitations on our ability to plan for, or react effectively to, changing market conditions or to expand through organic and acquisitive growth, thereby reducing our competitiveness. We cannot assure you that future financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have incurred losses in the past and may not achieve sustained profitability in the future. Although we were profitable in 2010 and 2011, we incurred a net loss of approximately RMB8.6 billion in 2012. We may continue to incur losses in the future and we cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain profitability in the future. In addition, our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets, and thus our liquidity, depend significantly on our public credit ratings. These ratings are assigned by rating agencies, which may reduce or withdraw their ratings or place us on "credit watch", which would have negative implications. A history of net losses may result in a deterioration of our credit ratings, which could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets, which in turn, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our liquidity. We may not realize the economic benefits of our expansion plans. Since 2010, we have acquired equity interest in a number of coal mines and an iron ore mine to diversify our product offering and partially offset our future energy costs, as well as supply a portion of the coal we consume in our operations. We may continue to acquire equity interest or establish joint ventures in the coal mining or iron ore production business in the future. However, cost savings and other economic benefits expected from our expansion plans may not materialize as a result of project delays, cost overruns, or changes in market conditions. Failure to obtain the intended economic benefits from these projects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also experience mixed results from our expansion plans in the short term. The interests of our controlling shareholder who exerts significant influence over us may conflict with ours. 18 As of December 31, 2012, our largest shareholder, Chinalco, directly owned 38.56% of our issued share capital and indirectly owned an additional 3.12% of our issued share capital through its controlled entities. The interests of Chinalco may conflict or even compete with our interests and those of our public shareholders. Chinalco may take actions that are in the interest of its subsidiaries, associates and other related entities to our detriment. For example, Chinalco may seek to influence our decision as to the amount of dividends we declare and distribute. Any increase in our dividend payout would reduce funds otherwise available for reinvestment in our businesses and thus may adversely affect our future prospects and financial condition. In addition, Chinalco and a number of its subsidiaries and associates provide a range of services to us, including engineering and construction services, social services, land and property leasing as well as the supply of raw and supplemental materials. It would be difficult to find an alternative source for some services, such as educational and medical care services, that we receive from Chinalco. Our cost of operations may increase if Chinalco, its subsidiaries and associates are unable to continue providing such services to us. We are subject to, and incur costs to comply with, environmental laws and regulations. As we produce air emissions, discharge waste water, and handle hazardous substances at our bauxite mines, alumina refineries, aluminum smelters and aluminum fabrication plants, we are subject to, and incur costs to comply with, environmental laws and regulations. Each of our production plants has implemented a system to control emissions and ensure compliance with PRC environmental regulations. We may incur significant additional costs if relevant laws and regulations change or enforcement of existing laws and regulations becomes more rigorous. Further, although all of our overseas expansion projects are at the early stages and have not started operation, these projects are subject to foreign environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations, all of which may materially and adversely affect our business operations. We are subject to administrative policies and orders relating to China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals that could adversely affect our production. We are subject to administrative energy-saving and emission reduction policies and orders carried out by the central and provincial governments in accordance with China's Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals. In 2010 and 2011, some of our primary aluminum production facilities were subject to power rationing carried out by some provincial governments to fulfill their energy-saving and emission reduction goals. Although power rationing only slightly reduced our primary aluminum production in 2010 and 2011 and the PRC central government has denounced it as an improper means to fulfill the Energy-Saving and Emission Reduction Goals, some or all of our primary aluminum production facilities may be subject to power rationing or other similar policies and orders from time to time in the future, which may adversely affect our production. Our business is subject to unplanned business interruptions that may adversely affect our performance. We may experience accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. Significant accidents and natural disasters may cause interruptions to our operations or result in property or environmental damage, an increase in operating expenses or loss of revenues. The occurrence of accidents, natural disasters and the resulting consequences may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance policies we carry. In accordance with customary practice in China, we do not carry any business interruption insurance or third-party liability insurance for personal injury or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations other than for our automobiles. Losses or payments incurred by us as a result of major accidents or natural disasters may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations if such losses or payments are not fully insured. We are operating a number of mines without valid permits. The permit to mine bauxite in one of our jointly-operated bauxite mines have expired and lapsed. While we are seeking to renew such expired license, we may be subject to administrative fines for operating mine without a valid license, or we may be ordered to cease our mining operations at such mine until we obtain the renewed license. Accordingly, our failure to renew such expired mining license may adversely affect our mining operations, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our investments in the coal mines are subject to PRC government approval. Our coal mining operations require valid licenses and permits issued by the PRC government. Delays or failure in securing necessary PRC government approvals, licenses or permits, as well as any adverse change in government policies may hinder our expansion plans, which may materially and adversely affect our profitability and growth prospects. 19 We have not obtained valid titles or land use rights to certain properties or land parcels that we occupy. We had not obtained valid ownership certificates to certain properties that we occupy. These properties are used primarily for production plants. As of December 31, 2012, the book value of our properties with defective titles represented approximately 12.8% of our net asset value. In addition, we had not obtained land use rights to certain land parcels, which we use primarily for our production plants. As of December 31, 2012, the book value of these land parcels represented approximately 0.8% of our net asset value. We have applied to the appropriate authorities to obtain the relevant ownership certificates. We cannot give any assurance that ownership dispute will not occur or that third parties will not assert any claims against us for compensation in respect of any use of these properties or land parcels. Our operations may be affected by uncertain mining conditions and we may suffer losses for mining safety incidents. We currently operate 17 bauxite mines in China. In addition, we have established joint ventures to operate a bauxite mine in Laos and an iron ore mine in Guinea. We have also invested in a number of coal mines in China. Our mining operations are subject to certain risks inherent in underground mining, which may affect the safety of our workforce or cost of producing coal and bauxite, including, without limitation, roof collapses, minewater discharge, ground falls and other mining hazards. Additionally, we are exposed to operational risks associated with industrial or engineering activities, such as maintenance problems or equipment failures. Although we conduct geological assessments on mining conditions and adapt our mining plans to the mining conditions at each mine, we cannot assure you that adverse mining conditions will not endanger our workforce, increase our production costs, reduce our bauxite or coal output or temporarily suspend our operations. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events or conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our mines and operating facilities may be damaged by water, gas, fire or cave-ins due to unstable geological structures. Although we have implemented safety measures at our mining sites, trained our employees on occupational safety and maintained liability insurance for limited property damage for certain of our operations, we cannot assure you that safety incidents will not occur. Any significant accident, business disruption or safety incident could result in substantial uninsured costs and the diversion of our resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. We may be subject to product liability claims. Some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability claims relating to property damage or personal injury. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in significant damage payments and harm to our reputation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our H Shares were removed from the Hang Seng Index and may not become a constituent stock of the Hang Seng Index again in the future. Our H Shares were removed from the Hang Seng Index on February 7, 2013. Being a constituent stock of the Hang Seng Index may attract the interest of tracker funds that maintain investment portfolios that track the performance of the Hang Seng Index. We have no control over the selection of the Hang Seng Index constituent stocks and our H Shares may not become a constituent stock of the Hang Seng Index again in the future. After our H Shares were removed from the Hang Seng Index, tracker funds may cease investing in our H Shares and our share price may decline. The interests of the shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang may conflict with our interests. The interests of non-controlling shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang, whose A Shares are listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, may be inconsistent with our interests in certain circumstances. Jiaozuo Wanfang must comply with a number of PRC regulations designed to protect the interests of non-controlling shareholders. According to the relevant PRC laws, when shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang vote by poll on connected transactions, connected parties such as us must abstain from voting. If we are unable to obtain approval for connected transactions from the non-controlling shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang, such transactions cannot be implemented, which may affect our overall operational efficiency. Furthermore, we may be subject to legal proceedings initiated by the non-controlling shareholders of Jiaozuo Wanfang challenging our actions as its controlling shareholder. Such legal proceedings could result in significant damage awards payable by us and disruption to our businesses, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our operations are affected by a number of risks relating to conducting business in the PRC. As a significant majority of our assets and operations are located in the PRC, we are subject to a number of risks relating to conducting business in the PRC, including the following: 20 * The central and local PRC government continues to exercise a substantial degree of control and influence over the aluminum industry in China and shape the structure and development of the industry through the imposition of industry policies governing major project approvals, preferential tax treatment and safety, environmental and quality regulations. If the PRC government changes its current policies or the interpretation of those policies that are currently beneficial to us, we may face pressure on profit margins and significant constraints on our ability to expand our business operations. * Although China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, control of payments of obligations denominated in foreign currencies and monetary and tax policies. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a materially adverse impact on us. * In 2005, China adopted a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. Since then the exchange rate between U.S. dollar and Renminbi has fluctuated and become increasingly unpredictable following the global financial crisis with increasing pressure on the Renminbi to appreciate. In April 2012, the PRC government took a milestone step in turning the Renminbi into a global currency by doubling the size of its trading band against the U.S. dollar, pushing through a crucial reform that further liberalizes its financial markets. The People's Bank of China allows the Renminbi to rise or fall 1% from a mid-point every day, effective on April 16, 2012, compared with its previous 0.5% limit. Any appreciation of the Renminbi will affect the value of our US dollar-denominated borrowings and overseas investments, increase the prices of our export sales denominated in foreign currencies and reduce the Renminbi equivalent value of our trade and notes receivable denominated in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and operating performance may also be affected by changes in the value of currencies other than Renminbi in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. * Although the promulgation of laws and regulations covering general economic matters has increased since 1979, China has not developed an adequately comprehensive legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their lack of binding precedential nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in the PRC may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The PRC judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our present or future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. The audit reports included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firms, must be registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the "PCAOB") and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the PRC and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as they relate to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors' work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections of audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit work of any auditor that was performed in China including that performed by our auditors. As a result, investors may be deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditors' audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to PCAOB inspections on all of their work. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. We may be adversely affected by the outcome of the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against five accounting firms in China. 21 The SEC has recently brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms in China, alleging that they refused to hand over documents to the SEC for ongoing investigations into certain other China-based companies. We were not and are not subject to any SEC investigations, nor are we involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, the independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC is affiliated to one of the five accounting firms named in the SEC's proceedings and we may be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. If the SEC prevails in the proceedings, the China-based affiliate of our independent auditors and other four accounting firms in China that were named in the proceedings may be barred from practicing before the SEC and hence unable to continue to be the auditors for, or participate in audits of, China-based companies like ourselves. If none of the China-based auditors are able to continue to be auditors for, or participate in the audits of, China-based companies listed in the U.S., we will not be able to meet the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, which may ultimately result in our deregistration from the SEC and delisting from NYSE. 