RISK FACTORS We are subject to various changing business, competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China as well as factors relating to the alumina and aluminum industry. These changing conditions and factors entail certain risks, which are described below: * We price our alumina and primary aluminum products by reference to international and domestic market prices, import cost of alumina and changes in supply and demand in the domestic market. Each of these factors may fluctuate beyond our control. Historically, the international market prices for alumina and primary aluminum products have been volatile. Because most of our costs are fixed and we may not be able to respond quickly to any sudden decrease in alumina or primary aluminum prices, any significant fluctuation in international market prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. * Our plans to upgrade and expand our alumina and primary aluminum plants will require capital expenditure of approximately RMB20,600 million in 2008. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - Property, Plants and Equipment - Our Expansion". We may also need further funding for debt servicing, working capital, investments, potential acquisitions and joint ventures and other corporate requirements. We cannot assure you that cash generated from our operations will be sufficient to fund these development plans, or that our actual capital expenditures and investments will not significantly exceed our current planned amounts. If either of these conditions arises, we may have to seek external financing to satisfy our capital needs. Our ability to obtain external financing at reasonable costs is subject to a variety of uncertainties. Failure to obtain sufficient external funds for our development plans could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. * Our planned expansion, cost reduction and technology improvement projects could be delayed or adversely affected by, among other things, failure to receive required regulatory approvals, difficulties in obtaining sufficient financing, technical difficulties, or human and other resources constraints. Moreover, the actual costs involved in these projects may exceed those originally contemplated. Cost savings and other economic benefits expected from these projects may not materialize as a result of any project delay, cost overrun, or change in market conditions. Failure to obtain intended economic benefits from these projects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. * Our business has grown rapidly. In order to manage our growth and increased scale of operations effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems, continue to develop the managerial skills of our managers, and continue to train, motivate and manage our employees. Failure to manage our growth and expanded operations effectively could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. * We signed the Aurukun project development agreement with the Queensland State Government of Australia ("Queensland Government") on March 23, 2007. We also entered into a land use agreement with various indigenous peoples in respect of the Aurukun project on March 23, 2007. The Queensland Government officially issued the Aurukun bauxite exploration permit to the Company in September 2007. Further, to implement our international development strategy, we entered into a joint venture arrangement with Malaysia Mining Company (MMC) and Saudi Arabian Binladin Group (SBG) on May 9, 2008, according to which, a joint venture will be established in Saudi Arabia and will develop and operate a primary aluminum plant with a planned annual capacity of approximately one million tonnes and a self-owned power plant with a planned capacity of 1,860MW. As we are new to these overseas markets, we cannot assure you that our overseas expansion or investment will be successful or that we will not suffer foreign exchange losses i n connection with our overseas investment. - 10 - * Our operations consume substantial amount of energy. Although we generally expect to meet the energy requirements for our alumina refineries and primary aluminum smelters from internal sources and external contracts, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by the following factors: * significant increases in electricity costs; and * unavailability or shortage of electrical power or other energy sources, interruption of energy supply, or curtailment of the operation of one or more refineries or smelters due to our inability to extend energy contracts upon their expirations. * We face competition from both domestic and international primary aluminum producers. Our principal competitors in the primary aluminum business are domestic smelters, some of which are expanding their production capacities. These smelters pose competitive challenges to our primary aluminum operations in production costs, product quality and price. We also face increasing competition from international primary aluminum suppliers as China continues to open up its aluminum industry to international trade. As a result of China's accession to the WTO on December 11, 2001, competition from international suppliers of alumina may increase as tariff and non-tariff barriers for imported alumina have been significantly reduced and may continue to be reduced. The standard tariff on imports of alumina into China was abolished on January 1, 2008. Intensified competition may result in reductions in our selling prices or sales volume and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operati ons. If we are not successful in reducing our costs, or if we are unable to maintain or increase our current share of China's primary aluminum market, our financial condition, results of operations and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. * We rely heavily on coal as our energy and fuel source in our production process. As we significantly increase our production capacities, our consumption of coal will increase significantly accordingly. If our coal suppliers are not able to supply the amount of coal needed for our production due to general short supply of coal or lack of available railcars for transportation or any other reason, we may be forced to reduce our production output or suspend our production, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. * Bauxite is the most important raw material for alumina production. We obtain our bauxite from three major sources, including our own mines, jointly operated mines, and other suppliers. See "Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview - Business Operations - Alumina - Raw Materials - Bauxite". Each of these sourcing methods could affect the security or cost of our supply of bauxite. The price for bauxite has increased substantially in recent years due to the rapid expansion of alumina output in China which significantly increased the demand for bauxite. In 2007, the average domestic price of bauxite increased by 21.2%, while the average price of imported bauxite increased by 65.6% to RMB530 per tonne from RMB320 per tonne in 2006. If we cannot obtain a steady supply of key raw materials at a competitive price, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. * The smelting of primary aluminum employs an electrolytic reduction process that requires large and continuous supply of electricity. Interruptions of electricity supply can result in lengthy production shutdowns, increased costs associated with restarting production and waste of production in progress. In extreme cases, interruptions of electricity supply can also cause damage to or destruction of the equipment and facilities. If this occurs, our operations may be adversely affected. * Electricity cost is the principal production cost component of our primary aluminum production. In October 2007, the PRC government issued "Notice to Further Solutions to Differences in Electricity Rates", according to which, the preferential electricity prices previously enjoyed by Chinese primary aluminum enterprises were eliminated at the end of 2007. The implementation of this notice increased the costs of primary aluminum enterprises in China. If electricity prices increase but are not passed on to our customers, our operating margin, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. - 11 - * Our alumina products are mainly delivered by rail or truck, and our primary aluminum products are transported to our customers mostly by rail. If we are unable to make on-time delivery due to logistics and transportation problems, our results of operations may be adversely affected. * A main objective of our research and development projects is to develop new methods and new processes to improve the efficiency of extracting alumina from bauxite that has relatively low alumina-to-silica ratios. If China's supply of bauxite with high alumina-to-silica ratios declines, our failure to achieve technological improvements or to implement such improvements in commercial applications could impede our efforts to reduce unit production costs and to compete with major international producers. * The bauxite reserve data on which we base our production, revenue and expenditure plans are estimates that we have developed internally and may be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. If these estimates are inaccurate or the indicated tonnages are not recovered, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. * We rely on short-term borrowings to meet part of our financing needs. If we fail to achieve timely rollover, extension or refinancing of our short-term debts, we may be unable to meet our obligations in connection with debt servicing, accounts payable and/or other liabilities when they become due and payable. In addition, we may be exposed to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase substantially, our results of operations could be adversely affected. * Our primary sources of funding are cash generated by operating activities, short-term and long-term bank borrowings, proceeds from shares offerings, and proceeds from short-term bond and long-term bond offerings. In 2007, we required our customers to make prepayments or deposits for purchases of alumina. The total amount of prepayments and deposits was approximately RMB1,053 million as of December 31, 2007. We have relied on prepayments and deposits received from customers as a source of liquidity. In the event that demand for our alumina declines significantly, we may not be able to require such prepayments and deposits from customers, in which case this source of liquidity may not be available to us. * Chinalco, a state-owned enterprise, as of December 31, 2007 owned 38.56% of our issued share capital and is our largest shareholder. The interest of Chinalco may conflict or even compete with our interest and that of our public shareholders. Chinalco may take actions that favor the interest of its subsidiaries, associates and other related entities over ours and that of our public shareholders. In addition, Chinalco and some of its subsidiaries and associates provide a range of services to us, including engineering and construction services, social services, land and property leasing and supply of raw and supplemental materials. Some of the services Chinalco provides to us, such as educational and medical care services for our employees, would be difficult to obtain from other sources. Our cost of operations may increase if Chinalco becomes unable to provide such services to us. * Chinalco has substantial financial obligations relating to the businesses, operations and personnel that it retained in the reorganization. While Chinalco generates significant operating revenue and receives government support, it may also rely on dividends received from us as a means of funding these obligations. Subject to the relevant provisions of the PRC Company Law and our Articles of Association, Chinalco may seek to influence our decision as to the amount of dividends we pay out in order to satisfy its cash flow requirements. Any increase in our dividend payout resulting from Chinalco's influence could reduce funds available for reinvestment in our businesses and thus may materially reduce our future financial strength and adversely affect our future results of operations. * Our alumina and primary aluminum production operations are subject to environmental protection laws and regulations in China, which impose such penalties as waste discharge fees, fines or closure of non-compliant plants. Each of our alumina and primary aluminum production plants has - 12 - implemented a system to control its emissions and to oversee its compliance with PRC environmental regulations. However, the PRC government has taken steps, and may take additional steps, towards more rigorous enforcement of applicable laws, and/or adoption of more stringent environmental standards. If the PRC national or local authorities enact additional regulations or enforce existing or new regulations in a more rigorous manner, we may be required to make additional environmental expenditures, which could have an materially adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. * We may experience major accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. Significant industry-related accidents and natural disasters may cause interruptions to various parts of our operations, or could result in property or environmental damage, increase in operating expenses or loss of revenue. The occurrence of such accidents and the resulting consequences may not be covered adequately, or at all, by the insurance policies we carry. In accordance with customary practice in China, we do not carry any business interruption insurance or third party liability insurance for personal injury or environmental damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations other than our automobiles. Losses or payments incurred by us as a result of major accidents or natural disasters may have a material adverse effect on our operating performance if such losses or payments are not fully insured. * The licenses to mine bauxite in some of our bauxite mines have expired and lapsed. While we are seeking to renew those expired licenses, we may be subject to administrative fines for operating mines without a valid license, or we may be ordered to cease our mining operations all together until we obtain the renewed licenses. The failure to renew those expired mining licenses may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. * Our H Shares became a Hang Seng Index constituent stock on June 10, 2008, which may attract buying interests of so-called "Hang Seng Index funds" aiming to maintain their investment portfolio parallel to that of the Hang Seng Index. We have no control of the selection of the Hang Seng Index constituent stocks and may not be able to continue to maintain our H Shares as a Hang Seng Index constituent stock. If our H shares are deselected from the Hang Seng Index, the market's interests in investing in our H shares may correspondingly wane, and our share price may materially decline. * As of May 6, 2008, 2,500,684,890 A Shares that had previously been subject to a trading moratorium became available for trading on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. If all or a significant portion of these tradable shares are offered for sale on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, the A Share price may materially decrease due to the over-supply of the A Shares on the market. * We are also subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC, including the following: * The central and local PRC governments continue to exercise a substantial degree of control and influence over the aluminum industry in China and shape the structure and characteristics of the industry by means of policies in respect of major project approvals, preferential treatments such as tax incentives and safety, environmental and quality control. If the PRC government changes its current policies or the interpretation of those policies that are currently beneficial to us, we may face pressure on profit margins and significant constraints on our ability to expand our business operations or to maximize our profitability. * Under current PRC regulatory requirements, the construction of new alumina refineries, the expansions of primary aluminum plants and mining projects in excess of RMB500 million require the government approval. If any of our important projects necessary for our growth or cost reduction are not approved, or not approved in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. * A significant portion of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or compan ies. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may have a materially adverse impact on us. * Since 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, had been based on rates set by the People's Bank of China, or PBOC, which had been set daily based on the previous day's PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. On July 21, 2005, PBOC announced a reform of its exchange rate system and revalued the Renminbi. Under the reform, Renminbi is allowed to trade against a basket of foreign currencies. Since July 21, 2005 the Renminbi has appreciated 16.4% as of May 31, 2008. Any further appreciation of Renminbi in the future will increase the prices of our export sales denominated in foreign currencies and reduce the Renminbi equivalent value - 13 - of our account receivables denominated in foreign currencies, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, any devaluation of Renminbi may adversely affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our H Shares and ADSs in foreign currencies since we receive our revenue and denominate our profits in Renminbi. Our financial condition and operating performance may also be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than Renminbi in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. In particular, a devaluation of the Renminbi could increase the portion of our cash flow required to satisfy our foreign currency-denominated obligations. * Since 1979, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in China. Despite this activity to develop the legal system, China's system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of foreign jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China's judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. These uncertainties may create situations that are not favorable to us, which may materially adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. See also "Item 4. Information on the Company - Business Overview", "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects", "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions - Related Party Transactions", "Item 8. Financial Information" and "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks". 