Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are indicated by forward-looking statements. Those factors include, without limitation, those listed below and elsewhere herein. Risks Related to Our Business Our performance depends substantially on the ability of our new management team to fully implement a new business strategy and on the performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. In September 2008, we issued and sold 30,303,030 shares of our common stock and a warrant to purchase an aggregate of 12,121,212 shares of our common stock to EGI-MBRK, L.L.C., or EGI, in a private placement offering, for proceeds of approximately $100 million. In connection with the offering, and as contemplated by the securities purchase agreement dated July 1, 2008 between us and EGI, our board of directors appointed John Thievon to replace Edward M. Rudnic, Ph.D., as our president and chief executive officer. Dr. Rudnic also resigned from our board, and our board appointed Mr. Thievon to fill this vacancy. In addition, David Becker was appointed our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, replacing Robert C. Low as our principal financial officer. We also expanded the size of our board of directors from seven to 10 members, adding new directors Lord James Blyth, William C. Pate and Mark Sotir. We have hired or promoted a number of other members of our senior management team. The new management team is in the process of setting new business objectives and 21 implementing a new business strategy for our company and products. Our management team is untested, has not worked together as a group for an extended period of time, and may lack familiarity with our company and products. They may not work together effectively to successfully implement a new business strategy, manage our operations, or accomplish business objectives. In addition, the new initiatives being implemented may not be successful and could adversely affect our business. Poor execution in the transition of our management team and in implementing new initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our scientific and management teams. In order to pursue our product development, marketing and commercialization plans, we may need to hire additional personnel with experience in clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing, marketing and business development. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the intense competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. We are not aware of any present intention of any of our key personnel to leave our company or to retire. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, these employees may terminate their services at any time by delivery of appropriate notice. The loss of any of our key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our research, development or business objectives and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of losses, we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never become profitable. From the date we began operations in January 2000 through December 31, 2008, we have incurred losses of approximately $236.9 million, including a loss of approximately $41.6 million and $42.2 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Our losses-to-date have resulted principally from research and development costs related to the development of our product candidates, the purchase of equipment and establishment of our facilities and selling, general and administrative costs related to our operations. We expect to incur substantial losses in 2009 and depending on the successful commercialization of MOXATAG, we may incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future thereafter. Among other things, in 2009 we expect to incur significant expenses in anticipation of commercialization of our MOXATAG product which was approved for marketing by the FDA in January 2008. We have limited the further development of our KEFLEX PULSYS product candidate and postponed development of our pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate in order to reduce our expenses. We may also incur losses in connection with the continued sales and marketing of our KEFLEX 750 mg product which was approved for marketing by the FDA in May 2006. In addition, we expect to incur additional expenses as a result of other research and development costs, and regulatory compliance activities. Our chances for achieving profitability depend on numerous factors, including success in: • commercializing our MOXATAG (amoxicillin extended-release) Tablets, 775 mg product, which was approved for marketing by the FDA in January 2008; • maintaining sales of our KEFLEX 750 mg product; • successfully developing, gaining FDA approval for, and commercializing other product candidates; and • obtaining additional financing, should it prove to be necessary. We may never become profitable. Although our MOXATAG product has been approved for commercial sale, we will not be successful if the product is not accepted by the market. Even though we have obtained regulatory approval to market MOXATAG, it, or any of our other potential PULSYS products, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, pharmacists, healthcare payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any pharmaceutical product that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; 22 • cost-effectiveness; • potential advantages over alternative therapies; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; and • effectiveness of our marketing and distribution capabilities and the effectiveness of such capabilities of our collaborative partners. Our products will compete with a number of products manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and manufacturers of generic drugs. Our products may also compete with new products currently under development by others. Physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community may not accept and use any product candidates that we or our collaborative partners develop. To the extent current antibiotics already successfully treat certain infections, physicians may not be inclined to prescribe our pulsatile drugs for the same indications. If our products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues or become profitable. Current unfavorable market conditions may adversely affect our product sales and business. Current economic and market conditions are unfavorable. Adverse economic conditions impacting our customers, including among others, high unemployment, low customer confidence in the economy, high customer debt levels, low availability of customer credit and hardships relating to declines in the stock markets, could impact the ability or willingness of consumers to purchase our products, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We expect that our products will be more expensive for consumers than competing products, and in the current economy consumers may be reluctant to accept higher costs. If market conditions remain unfavorable or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our PULSYS technology is based on a finding that could ultimately prove to be incorrect, or could have limited applicability. Our PULSYS product candidates are based on our in vitro finding that bacteria exposed to antibiotics in front-loaded, rapid sequential bursts are eliminated more efficiently and effectively than those exposed to presently available treatment regimens. Ultimately, our finding may be incorrect, in which case our pulsatile dosage form would not differ substantially from competing dosage forms and may be inferior to them. If these products are substantially identical or inferior to products already available, the market for our pulsatile drugs will be reduced or eliminated. Even if pulsatile dosing is more efficient than traditional dosing, we may be unable to apply this finding in vivo successfully to a substantial number of products in the anti-infective market. Our preliminary studies indicate that pulsatile dosing may not provide superior performance for all types of antibiotics. Additionally, we have not conducted any studies with anti-viral or anti-fungal medications. If we cannot apply our technology to a wide variety of antibiotics or other anti-infectives, our potential market will be substantially reduced. Our PULSYS delivery technology may not be effective for our product candidates, which would prevent us from commercializing products that are more effective than those of our competitors. Even if we are correct that pulsatile dosing is more effective than traditional dosing of antibiotics, our PULSYS delivery technology must be effective in humans such that the pulsatile administration of drugs are at levels that prove effective in curing infections. We may not be successful in developing other antibiotics using our PULSYS technology. Furthermore, we may not be successful when applying for indications other than our current indications for MOXATAG. Should this occur, our pulsatile product candidates may not be more effective than the products of our competitors, which may decrease or eliminate market acceptance of our products. If our PULSYS delivery technology is not effective in delivering rapid bursts of antibiotics, or is unable to do so at appropriate concentrations, and we are not able to create an alternative delivery method for pulsatile dosing 23 that proves to be effective, we will be unable to capitalize on any advantage of our discovery, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If a competitor produces and commercializes an antibiotic that is superior to our PULSYS antibiotics, the market for our potential products would be reduced or eliminated. We have devoted a substantial amount of our research efforts and capital to the development of pulsatile antibiotics. Competitors are developing or have developed new drugs that may compete with our pulsatile antibiotics. A number of pharmaceutical companies are also developing new classes of compounds, such as oxazolidinones, that may also compete against our pulsatile antibiotics. In addition, other companies are developing technologies to enhance the efficacy of antibiotics by adding new chemical entities that inhibit bacterial metabolic function. If a competitor produces and commercializes an antibiotic or method of delivery of antibiotics that provides superior safety, effectiveness or other significant advantages over our pulsatile antibiotics, the value of our pulsatile drugs would be substantially reduced. As a result, we would need to conduct substantial new research and development activities to establish new product targets, which would be costly and time consuming. In the event we are unable to establish new product targets, we will be unable to generate additional sources of revenue. We have not conducted an extensive third-party patent infringement, invalidity and enforceability investigation on pulsatile dosing and our PULSYS technology, and we are aware of at least one issued patent covering pulsatile delivery. Our patents, prior art and infringement investigations were primarily conducted by our senior management and other employees. Although our patent counsel has consulted with management in connection with management’s intellectual property investigations, our patent counsel has not undertaken an extensive independent analysis to determine whether our PULSYS technology infringes upon any issued patents or whether our issued patents or patent applications covering pulsatile dosing could be invalidated or rendered unenforceable for any reason. We are aware of one issued patent owned by a third party that covers certain aspects of delivering drugs by the use of two delayed-release pulses. However, we believe that we will be able to manufacture and market formulations of our pulsatile products without infringing any valid claims under this patent. Any reformulation of our products, if required, could be costly and time-consuming and may not be possible. We cannot assure you that a claim will not be asserted by such patent holder or any other holder of an issued patent, that any of our products infringe their patent, or that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, any claims would be resolved in our favor. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not valid, may result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management and harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could result in substantial damages and force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling, incorporating or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming and may not be possible. We have not sought patent protection for certain aspects of the technology used in our PULSYS product candidates. We have not filed for patent protection with respect to all of our specific formulations, materials (including inactive ingredients) or manufacturing process approaches that are incorporated in our PULSYS product candidates, and we may not seek such patent coverage in the future. In producing our PULSYS products, we expect to use general formulation techniques used in the industry that would be modified by us and which would, therefore, include know-how and trade secrets that we have developed. We cannot be certain that a patent would issue to cover such intellectual property, and currently, we would prefer to keep such techniques and know-how as our trade secrets. In the event a competitor is able to develop and patent technology substantially similar to ours, we may be 24 blocked from using certain of our formulations or manufacturing process approaches, which could limit our ability to develop and commercialize products. If we are unable to develop and successfully commercialize our PULSYS product candidates, we may never achieve profitability. We have just begun the commercialization of our first PULSYS product, MOXATAG; however, as of December 31, 2008, we have not recognized any revenue from PULSYS product sales. With the exception of our KEFLEX PULSYS product candidate, which is in the early stages of preparing for a Phase III clinical trial, all of our pulsatile drugs candidates are in early stages of development. We must obtain regulatory approval for our products before we are able to commercialize these products and generate revenue from their sales. We expect that we must conduct significant additional research and development activities on our other PULSYS product candidates and successfully complete preclinical, Phase I, Phase I/II or Phase II, and Phase III clinical trials before we will be able to receive final regulatory approval to commercialize these pulsatile products. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our PULSYS products, we may never generate sufficient or sustainable revenue to enable us to be profitable. If clinical trials for our products are unsuccessful or delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines. We must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans before we can obtain regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. In addition, we will also need to demonstrate through clinical trials any claims we may wish to make that our product candidates are comparable or superior to existing products. For drug products which are expected to contain active ingredients in fixed combinations that have not been previously approved by the FDA, we may also need to conduct clinical studies in order to establish the contribution of each active component to the effectiveness of the combination in an appropriately identified patient population. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. With the exception of both our KEFLEX PULSYS product candidate and pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate, which have completed Phase I clinical trials, we have not completed preclinical studies and initial clinical trials (Phase I, Phase I/II or Phase II) to extrapolate proper dosage for our other potential product candidates for Phase III clinical efficacy trials in humans. In the event we incorrectly identify a dosage as appropriate for human clinical trials, any results we receive from such trials may not properly reflect the optimal efficacy or safety of our products and may not support approval in the absence of additional clinical trials using a different dosage. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials for our products may be delayed by many factors, including: • lack of efficacy during the clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; • slower than expected rate of patient recruitment; or • government or regulatory delays. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials are often not predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. Although a new product may show promising results in preclinical and initial clinical trials, it may subsequently prove unfeasible or impossible to generate sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approval. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may encounter regulatory delays or rejections as a result of many factors, including results that do not support our claims, perceived defects in the design of clinical trials and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials or a determination by the FDA that the results of our trials are inadequate to justify regulatory approval. 25 We have a post marketing commitment to proceed with a Phase II clinical trial for our pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate, which we may never be able to conduct. As part of the MOXATAG approval, we are committed to submitting a final clinical trial report for a Phase III clinical study by March 2013 for our pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate. Prior to the initiation of such a Phase III clinical trial, we plan to conduct a Phase II clinical trial in order to evaluate various dosing regimens. If we lack adequate financial resources to proceed with a Phase II clinical trial for our pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate we will be unable to meet our commitment and will have to request that the FDA extend our current deferral until such resources are available. If the results of the Phase II clinical study do not support proceeding into a Phase III clinical trial, we will have to request a waiver for the further assessment of the safety and effectiveness of our pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate. There can be no assurance that the FDA will grant our deferral or waiver requests. If we fail to obtain a deferral or waiver from the FDA regarding this post marketing commitment it could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our products is dependent upon successfully developing our own sales and marketing capabilities and infrastructure. Our new sales and marketing personnel have limited experience working together. In order to commercialize our MOXATAG product, we expanded our commercial capabilities, with the addition of several sales and marketing personnel, using a significant portion of the proceeds raised in our September 2008 private placement offering. The expansion of our sales infrastructure will also require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel and defer our product development efforts. We filled all 30 district sales manager positions and 271 territory manager positions, and we have been actively creating a distribution channel for our drugs both in the commercial market and managed care market. Our sales force has had no experience selling our products and they may not be successful. In the event any of our other products or product candidates are approved by the FDA, we may have to expand our sales and marketing personnel, which could divert the attention of management and have a material adverse affect on other areas of our business, These efforts may not be successful and cause a delay in product sales and increased costs. Our KEFLEX 750 mg product may not be successful. We launched our KEFLEX 750 mg product in July 2006. While we have invested considerable resources in the launch of this product, to date, sales have not met our expectations. We had previously anticipated that this product would generate revenues in excess of related expenses and would contribute additional cash flow to help fund our other operations. During 2007 and 2008, we reduced the number of contract sales representatives and marketing costs associated with KEFLEX 750 mg in order to more closely match the monthly sales level. The extent to which this product is accepted by physicians is dependent upon a number of factors, including the recognition of the potential advantages over alternative generic dosage strengths of cephalexin, despite higher cost, and the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution capabilities. In addition, this product faces significant competition from other dosage strengths of cephalexin manufactured by generic pharmaceutical companies, as well as from other dosage strengths of immediate-release KEFLEX marketed by us. Although there is no current 750 mg dosage strength of generic cephalexin, the product is not protected by patents and we expect to have a limited window of opportunity to market this product, should generic pharmaceutical manufacturers choose to compete with us. Even if sales of this product increase in the short-term, we expect that the amount of revenues from this product could decline significantly within a few years due to competition from generic formulations of the product. We rely upon a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors, which could impact our ability to sell our products. We rely largely upon specialty pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers to deliver our products to end users, including physicians, hospitals, and pharmacies. Product sales to three major pharmaceutical wholesalers, Cardinal Health Inc., McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, accounted for approximately 94% and 95% of our net revenue from KEFLEX in fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, respectively. There can be no assurance that our distributors and wholesalers will adequately meet the market demand for our products. Given the high concentration of sales to certain pharmaceutical distributors and 26 wholesalers, we could experience a significant loss if one of our top customers were to cease buying our product(s), declare bankruptcy or otherwise become unable to pay its obligations to us. The potential success of our products and product candidates, will be dependent upon successfully pricing the products in the marketplace. While we believe that physicians make antibiotic prescribing decisions based primarily on efficacy, safety, and compliance, we also believe that, when deciding whether to prescribe a modified-release drug or its immediate release generic analog, physicians also weigh patient co-pay and patient preferences. As a result, we believe that price will be an important driver of the adoption of our products and product candidates. In addition, we believe it will be important to carefully manage resistance from payor organizations by pricing our products in such a way as to minimize the incremental payor cost burden relative to generic analogs. If our product pricing does not achieve significant market acceptance, the sales of our products will be significantly impacted and it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Generic pricing plans, such as that implemented by Wal-Mart and other retailers, may affect the market for our products. In September 2006, Wal-Mart began offering certain generic drugs at $4 per prescription and various other retailers currently offer generic drugs at similar prices or for free. Amoxicillin and cephalexin are on the list of drugs that retailers provide at $4 per prescription or less. Wal-Mart and many of these other retailers have significant market presence. As a result, there can be no assurance that Wal-Mart’s generic pricing plan, and/or similar plans adopted by others, will not have a material adverse effect on the market for our products. Our immediate-release KEFLEX products are subject to therapeutic equivalent substitution, and our products are subject to Medicaid reimbursement and price reporting. The cost of pharmaceutical products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies and private organizations in the United States and other countries. In the United States, most states have enacted legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a generic equivalent to the prescribed drug. Federal legislation requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay to state Medicaid agencies prescribed rebates on drugs to enable them to be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid programs. Federal and state governments continue to pursue efforts to reduce spending in Medicaid programs, including imposing restrictions on amounts agencies will reimburse for certain products. We also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of our products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend, in part, on the availability of reimbursements from third party payors, such as health insurers, governmental health administration authorities and other organizations and the amount of rebates payable under Medicaid programs. We are dependent on our contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide us with active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products. We do not maintain commercial scale manufacturing facilities. Our KEFLEX products were manufactured for us by Patheon. We were informed that Patheon would be closing its Puerto Rico site that manufactures our KEFLEX product and that they would be willing to manufacture enough KEFLEX to meet our commercial needs for approximately 18 months. We received our final order of KEFLEX from Patheon in February 2008 and cannot guarantee that the amount of product received will meet our near term demand for KEFLEX. We are actively pursuing a third-party manufacturer to produce our current immediate-release KEFLEX products and to perform development work on our KEFLEX pulsatile development product. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to select a site and obtain approval from the FDA for a third-party manufacturing and development site. If we are unable to obtain approval, or if such approval is delayed, for a third-party manufacturing and development site for our current KEFLEX products and our KEFLEX PULSYS development product this could result in a significant disruption to our business, have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 MOXATAG is manufactured for us by Stada Production Ireland Limited, or SPI, previously known as the manufacturing division of Clonmel Healthcare Limited, a subsidiary of STADA Arzneimittel AG, pursuant to a contract manufacturing arrangement. Samples of our MOXATAG product are packaged by Almac Pharma Services Limited, or ALMAC, pursuant to a three-year packaging agreement. Although we believe that our finished MOXATAG product and samples could be potentially obtained from several suppliers, our applications for regulatory approval currently only identify SPI and ALMAC as our authorized sources for MOXATAG product and samples, respectively. In the event that SPI or ALMAC are unable to supply MOXATAG product and samples to us in sufficient quantities on a timely basis or at a commercially reasonable price, or in the event either of them breaches their agreement with us, or if SPI or ALMAC loses its regulatory status as an acceptable source, we would need to locate another source. A change to a supplier not previously approved or an alteration in the procedures or product provided to us by an approved supplier may require formal approval by the FDA before the product could be sold and could result in significant disruption to our business. These factors could limit our ability to sell MOXATAG and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the demand for our products increases and we are unable to increase manufacturing capacity or unable to obtain additional capacity on reasonable economic terms to meet that demand, our revenues and operating results may be negatively impacted. The addition of capacity on unfavorable terms could also affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, any damage to, or disruption at, our manufacturers’ facilities could halt production of our products and materially harm our business. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks, including but not limited to: • the possibility that third parties may not comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations, other regulatory requirements and quality assurance; • the possible breach of manufacturing agreements by third parties due to factors beyond our control; and • the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of an agreement by a third-party manufacturer, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. In the event of a supply disruption or a deterioration in our product quality from a third-party manufacturer, we would have to rely on alternative manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new manufacturers. We may not be able to identify or qualify new manufacturers in a timely manner or obtain a sufficient allocation of their capacity to meet our requirements. In addition, alternative vendors must comply with product validation and stability testing, which may involve additional manufacturing expense, delay in production or required regulatory approvals. Any resulting delays in meeting demand could negatively impact our inventory levels, sales, profitability, and reputation. A limited number of manufacturers operating under cGMP regulations are capable of manufacturing amoxicillin and cephalexin to our specifications. We may be unable to utilize alternative manufacturing sources for these active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, or to obtain such manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis. Any transfer of our sources of supply to other manufacturers will require the satisfaction of various regulatory requirements, which could cause us to experience significant delays in receiving adequate supplies of API for use in our products. Any delays in the manufacturing process may adversely impact our ability to meet commercial demand on a timely basis, which would negatively impact our revenues, reputation and business strategy. In addition, we obtain APIs and finished products from certain specialized manufacturers for use in clinical studies. Although the antibiotics and finished products we use in our clinical studies may generally be obtained from several suppliers, the loss of a supplier could result in delays in conducting or completing our clinical trials and could delay our ability to commercialize products. All of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the U.S., which exposes us to additional business risks that may cause our profitability to decline. SPI and ALMAC will manufacture and package MOXATAG product and samples in their respective facilities in Ireland. Our costs associated with SPI are denominated in euros, or EUR, and those of ALMAC are in British pound sterling, or GBP. We are therefore exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, or 28 USD, and the EUR and GBP, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, we may be subject to the laws and regulations of local authorities. These laws and regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. We are currently in the process of selecting a third party manufacturer for our KEFLEX products. We believe this manufacturer will be located overseas, and the costs for the manufacturer will be denominated in a foreign currency, which exposes us to currency risk. In addition, we may be subject to separate laws and regulations of local authorities. These laws and regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. Fluctuations in exchange rates and changes in applicable foreign laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our ability to conduct clinical trials will be impaired if we fail to qualify our clinical supply manufacturing facility and we are unable to maintain relationships with current clinical supply manufacturers or enter into relationships with new manufacturers. We currently rely on several contractors to manufacture product for our clinical studies. We believe that there are a variety of manufacturers that we may retain to produce these products. However, once we retain a manufacturing source, if we are unable to maintain our relationship with such manufacturer, qualifying a new manufacturing source will be time consuming and expensive and may cause delays in the development of our products. Clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed due to our dependence on third parties for the conduct of such trials. We have limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials. We rely, and will continue to rely, on third parties, including contract research organizations and outside consultants, to assist us in managing and monitoring clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties may result in delays in the completion of, or the failure to complete, these trials if they fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. Our success may depend on our ability to successfully attract and retain collaborative partners. For certain product candidates, we may enter into collaborative arrangements with third parties. Collaborations may be necessary in order for us to: • fund our research and development activities; • fund manufacturing by third parties; • seek and obtain regulatory approvals; and • successfully commercialize our product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into collaborative agreements with partners on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any future agreement may expose us to risks that our partner might fail to fulfill its obligations and delay commercialization of our products. We also could become involved in disputes with partners, which could lead to delays in or terminations of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. Our inability to enter into additional collaborative arrangements with other partners, or our failure to maintain such arrangements, may limit the number of product candidates we can develop and ultimately, decrease our sources of any future revenues. If we cannot enter into new licensing arrangements or otherwise gain access to products, our ability to develop a diverse product portfolio could be limited. A component of our business strategy may involve in-licensing or acquiring drug compounds developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories that may be marketed and developed or improved upon using our novel technologies. Competition for promising compounds can be intense, and currently we have not entered into any arrangement to license or acquire any drugs from other companies, other 29 than Eli Lilly. If we are not able to identify licensing or acquisition opportunities or enter into arrangements on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop a diverse portfolio of products. Any product candidate that we acquire may require significant additional research and development efforts prior to seeking regulatory approval and commercial sale, including extensive preclinical and/or clinical testing. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe, non-toxic and effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any approved products that we develop or acquire will be: manufactured or produced economically; successfully commercialized; widely accepted in the marketplace or that we will be able to recover our significant expenditures in connection with the development or acquisition of such products. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, if we acquire product candidates from third parties, we may be dependent on third parties to supply such products to us for sale. We could be materially adversely affected by the failure or inability of such suppliers to meet performance, reliability and quality standards. We could be forced to pay substantial damage awards if product liability claims that may be brought against us are successful. The use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, may expose us to liability claims and financial losses resulting from the use or sale of our products. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials, which we believe is adequate to cover our present activities. However, such insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims made against us. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses. Risks Related to Our Industry Any inability to protect our intellectual property could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate our competitive advantage. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these foreign countries. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our patent positions, involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that we cover our proprietary technologies with valid and enforceable patents or we effectively maintain such proprietary technologies as trade secrets. We will apply for patents covering both our technologies and product candidates as we deem appropriate. We may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or products in a timely fashion, or at all, and in any event, the applications we do file may be challenged and may not result in issued patents. Any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. In addition, if challenged, our patents may be declared invalid. Even if valid, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. We rely upon trade secrets protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken measures to protect our proprietary information; however, these measures may not provide adequate protection. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may 30 independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property rights related to our brands, our ability to compete effectively in the markets for our products and our business could be negatively impacted. A significant part of our business strategy is to position MOXATAG and our KEFLEX line of products as preferred brands for relief of tonsillitis and/or pharyngitis secondary to Streptococcus pyogenes, and skin and skin structure infections, respectively. We believe that familiarity with our brands is an important competitive advantage and that the growth and sustainability of our market share for our product lines will depend to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our related trademarks, trade names and copyrights. We intend to use the trademarks and trade names on our products to convey that the products we sell are “brand name” products, and we believe consumers and physicians will ascribe value to our brands. We own the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and sale of our products. This ownership prevents our competitors or new entrants to the market from using our brand names. Therefore, we view trademark and trade name protection as critical to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. If we were to lose the exclusive right to use the MOXATAG or KEFLEX brand name or other brand names we establish or acquire in the future, our sales and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We could also incur substantial costs to prosecute legal actions relating to the use of our trademarks and trade names, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, other parties may infringe on our property rights in our trademarks and trade names, which may dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace. Our competitors may also introduce brands that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, which could adversely affect the value that our customers associate with our brands and thereby negatively impact our sales. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect those rights through litigation or otherwise. In addition, third parties may assert claims against our trademark and trade name rights, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these claims. In such event, we may lose our ability to use the brand names that are the subject of these claims, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results. We could also incur substantial costs to defend even those claims that are not ultimately successful, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Legal proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing or commercializing products. Our technologies, products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents or patent applications of third parties. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing, or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. The pharmaceutical industry has experienced substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights 31 with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. If we do not compete successfully in the development and commercialization of products and keep pace with rapid technological change, we will be unable to capture and sustain a meaningful market position. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. While we are not aware of any company using rapid bursts of antibiotics as a treatment method, there are numerous companies actively engaged in the research and development of anti-infectives. Our main competitors are: • Large pharmaceutical companies, such as Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Wyeth, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck, Johnson & Johnson, Roche, Schering-Plough, Novartis, sanofi-aventis, Abbott Laboratories, AstraZeneca, and Bayer, which may develop new drug compounds that render our drugs obsolete or noncompetitive. • Smaller pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and specialty pharmaceutical companies engaged in focused research and development of anti-infective drugs, such as Trimeris, Vertex, Gilead Sciences, Cubist, Basilea, InterMune, Oscient, King, Advanced Life Sciences, and others. • Drug delivery companies, such as Johnson & Johnson’s Alza division, Biovail, DepoMed, Flamel Technologies, and SkyePharma, which may develop a dosing regimen that is more effective than pulsatile dosing. • Generic drug companies, such as Teva, Ranbaxy, Sandoz and Stada, which produce low-cost versions of antibiotics that may contain the same APIs as our PULSYS product candidates. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in: • developing products; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining approvals of products from the FDA and other regulatory agencies; and • manufacturing and marketing products. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses of products or technology. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than ours. If we experience delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, or are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals, we may be unable to commercialize any products. Our product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic government regulation as described more fully under Item 1. Business- “Government Regulation” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results or our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may adversely affect our revenue and the marketing of our products. If our products are marketed abroad, they will 32 also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. None of our PULSYS product candidates have been approved for sale in any foreign market. The regulatory review and approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. The actual time required for satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or the medical condition it is intended to treat. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon a manufacturer’s activities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • adversely affect the commercialization of any drugs that we or our collaborative partners develop; • impose costly procedures on us or our collaborative partners; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborative partners may attain; and • adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. Success in early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of a NDA to the FDA, and the FDA approves even fewer for commercialization. Any required approvals, once obtained, may be withdrawn. Further, if we fail to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we may encounter difficulties including: • delays in clinical trials or commercialization; • product recalls or seizures; • suspension of production and/or distribution; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. We may need to successfully address a number of challenges in order to complete the development of our future products. For example, to obtain marketing approval for a new product candidate, we and our third-party manufacturers will be required to demonstrate that we can consistently produce the product in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis. This requirement is referred to as process validation. If we are unable to satisfy this process validation requirement for a future product candidate, through our third party manufacturers or otherwise, we will not receive approval to market such product. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory agencies may apply new standards for safety, manufacturing, packaging, and distribution of future product candidates. Complying with such standards may be time consuming or expensive and could result in delays in our obtaining marketing approval for future product candidates, or possibly preclude us from obtaining such approval. Such a delay could also increase our commercialization costs, possibly materially. Furthermore, our future products may not be effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude us from obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Even if we do obtain regulatory approval, such regulatory approvals may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product, which may limit the size of the market for such product. We may rely on future collaborative partners to file investigational new drug applications and generally direct the regulatory approval process for some of our products. These collaborative partners may not diligently conduct clinical testing or obtain necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any product candidates. If we fail to obtain required governmental approvals, we or our collaborative partners will experience delays in, or be precluded from, marketing products developed through our research. We and our contract manufacturers are also required to comply with applicable FDA cGMP regulations. cGMP regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the 33 corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the FDA. These facilities must be approved before we can use them in commercial manufacturing of our products. We or our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with the applicable cGMP requirements and other FDA regulatory requirements. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions, or be precluded from marketing our products. Furthermore, if the FDA implements additional regulations with which we and our third party manufacturers have to comply, our expenses would increase. Furthermore, our failure to comply with the FDA, U.S. Federal Trade Commission or state regulations relating to our product claims and advertising may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect our marketing strategy and product sales. The manufacture and storage of pharmaceutical and chemical products is subject to environmental regulation and risk. Because of the chemical ingredients of pharmaceutical products and the nature of their manufacturing process, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation and the risk of incurring liability for damages or the costs of remedying environmental problems. We use a number of chemicals and drug substances that can be toxic. These chemicals include acids, solvents and other reagents used in the normal course of our chemical and pharmaceutical analysis, and other materials, such as polymers, inactive ingredients and drug substances, used in the research, development and manufacture of drug products. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately or otherwise to comply with the conditions attached to our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked and we could be subject to criminal sanctions and/or substantial liability or could be required to suspend or modify our operations. Environmental laws and regulations can require us to undertake or pay for investigation, clean-up and monitoring of environmental contamination identified at properties that we currently own or operate or that we formerly owned or operated. Further, these laws and regulations can require us to undertake or pay for such actions at offsite locations where we may have sent hazardous substances for disposal. These obligations are often imposed without regard to fault. In the event we are found to have violated environmental laws or regulations, our reputation will be harmed and we may incur substantial monetary liabilities. We currently have insurance coverage that we believe is adequate to cover our present activities. However, this insurance may not be available or adequate to cover any losses arising from contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous substances. Our current and future products may be associated with certain transient side effects. If we or others identify additional, more severe side effects associated with our current or future products, we may be required to withdraw our products from the market, perform lengthy additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. Our current cephalexin-based products may be associated with mild and transient side effects including diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastritis, and abdominal pain. Our amoxicillin-based product may be associated with vulvovaginal myotic infection, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and headaches. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals; • we may be required to reformulate our products, conduct additional clinical trials, change the labeling of our products, or implement changes to obtain new approvals of manufacturers’ facilities; • we may recall the affected products from the market; • we may experience a significant drop in sales of the affected products; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; • we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits; and • we may be required to withdraw our products from the market and not be able to re-introduce them into the market. 34 Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing or marketing these products, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Market acceptance of our products will be limited if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. The commercial success of our products and product candidates will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, including government health administrators, managed care providers and private health insurers. We cannot assure you that third-party payors will consider our products cost-effective or provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, effective or cost-effective than existing products. Therefore, third-party payors may not approve our products for reimbursement. If third-party payors do not approve our products for reimbursement or fail to reimburse them adequately, sales will suffer as some physicians or their patients will opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, reimbursement levels may not be sufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Moreover, the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our products. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals, if any government or regulatory agencies adopt these proposals, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Potential regulatory changes, and the billing and reimbursement process applicable to underlying conditions may cause price erosion and reduce sales revenue for our products, and our products may not be accepted by healthcare providers. Government and private healthcare programs currently are under financial stress due to overall medical cost increases. Federal and state governments are taking steps to ease the burden on healthcare programs in ways that could affect the pricing of pharmaceuticals. Any such federal and state laws and regulations can have a negative impact on the pricing of prescription drugs, including Medicare, Medicaid, pharmaceutical importation laws and other laws and regulations that directly or indirectly impose controls on pricing. Market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability of reimbursement by government and private third-party payors. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the healthcare system in the United States. The growth of managed care organizations, or MCOs (e.g., medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, hospital alliances and pharmaceutical benefit managers) has placed increased pressure on drug prices and on overall healthcare expenditures. MCOs and government and other private third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both the coverage and the level of reimbursement for drug products. Consequently, the reimbursement status of our products is highly uncertain, and we cannot assure that third-party coverage will be available or that available third-party coverage or payment will be adequate. Other Risks Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. Selling of a large number of shares by any of our existing shareholders or management shareholders could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 35 In September 2008, we issued and sold 30,303,030 shares of common stock and a warrant to acquire up to 12,121,212 additional shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.90 per share to EGI-MBRK, L.L.C. In January 2008, we completed a private placement of 8,750,001 shares of common stock and warrants to acquire up to 3,500,001 shares of common stock at a price of $3.00 per unit. In April 2007, we completed a private placement of 10,155,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 7,616,250 shares of common stock, at a price of $2.36375 per unit. In December 2006, we completed a private placement of 6,000,000 shares of common stock. In April 2005, we completed a private placement of 6,846,735 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase a total of 2,396,357 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $4.78 per share. We have registered approximately 15,817,679 and 4,500,000 shares of common stock that are authorized for issuance under our Stock Incentive Plan and New Hire Stock Incentive Plan, respectively. As of March 1, 2009, options to purchase 16,608,379 shares were outstanding, 3,883,293 of which are vested and exercisable. Because they are registered, the shares authorized for issuance under our stock plans can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. We could be forced to pay liquidated damages if we do not maintain the effectiveness of our S-3 registration statements. Pursuant to the terms of the registration rights agreements for each of the private placement transactions described directly above, we filed with the SEC shelf registration statements on Form S-3 covering resales of common stock. The registration rights agreement in each transaction provides that if we do not maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement, then in addition to any other rights the investor may have, we will be required to pay the investor liquidated damages in cash. A small number of stockholders have significant influence over our business, and the interests of those stockholders may not be consistent with the interests of our other stockholders. EGI currently beneficially owns an aggregate of 43.05% of our outstanding common stock (assuming the exercise of its outstanding warrant to acquire 12,121,212 shares of our common stock). William C. Pate, a member of our board, is the Chief Investment Officer and a Managing Director of Equity Group Investments, L.L.C., an affiliate of EGI, and Mark Sotir, a member of our board, is also a Managing Director of Equity Group Investments, L.L.C. Neither Mr. Pate nor Mr. Sotir share beneficial ownership with EGI of any shares of our common stock. Affiliates of Healthcare Ventures currently beneficially own an aggregate of 14.95% of our outstanding common stock. James H. Cavanaugh and Harold R. Werner, members of our board of directors, are general partners of HealthCare Ventures. Affiliates of Rho Ventures currently beneficially own an aggregate of 7.80% of our outstanding common stock. Martin A. Vogelbaum, a member of our board, is a member of the general partner of Rho Ventures. Accordingly, these stockholders are able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, as well as over the day-to-day management of our business. These stockholders may direct our affairs in a manner that is not consistent with the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Our certificate of incorporation and provisions of Delaware law could discourage a takeover you may consider favorable or could cause current management to become entrenched and difficult to replace. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, or making a merger or acquisition less desirable to a potential acquirer, even when the stockholders may consider the acquisition or merger favorable. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, we are authorized to issue 25.0 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock, and to determine the price, privileges, and other terms of these shares. The issuance of any preferred stock with superior rights to our common stock could reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights we may grant to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict an ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party, preserving control by present owners and management and preventing you from realizing a premium on your shares. 36 In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. These provisions could affect our stock price adversely. The price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. Prior to our October 2003 initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock. The initial public offering price of our common stock was $10.00 per share. Since our initial public offering, the price of our common stock has been as high as $10.30 and as low as $0.86 per share. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may undertake strategic acquisitions of technologies and products. Integration of such technologies and products will involve a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions. We intend to pursue opportunities to acquire technologies, brands and products that would allow us to leverage our professional field sales force or our marketing and development expertise or enhance our product portfolio or brand recognition in the prescription market. We have limited experience in identifying and completing such acquisitions. Further, acquisitions typically entail many risks, including risks related to the integration of the technologies and products. In attempting to integrate such technologies and products, we may experience unexpected integration costs and delays, which may divert management and employee attention and disrupt our ability to develop and introduce new products. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not be able to realize the intended benefits of the acquisition. As a result of acquiring products or entering into other significant transactions, we will likely experience, significant charges to earnings for acquisitions and related expenses, including transaction costs, closure costs or acquired in-process product development charges. These costs may include substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants, and financial printing costs. Charges that we may incur in connection with acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. In addition, we may lack the required funds or resources to carry out such acquisitions. We may need additional financing, which may be difficult to obtain. Our failure to obtain necessary financing or doing so on unattractive terms could adversely affect our marketing and development programs and other operations. We will require substantial funds to commercialize our products, launch new products, promote our brands, and conduct development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials, of our potential products. We believe that our existing cash, coupled with cash flow from product sales, will be sufficient to fund our anticipated levels of operations through at least the next 12 months. However, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the success of our commercialization of our products and the costs associated with related marketing, promotional and sales efforts; • the timing of new product launches, product development and advancement of other product candidates into development; • potential acquisitions or in-licensing of other products or technologies; • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; • the cost of manufacturing activities, including raw material sourcing and regulatory compliance; and • the costs involved in establishing and protecting our patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights. 37 Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or on favorable terms, especially during the unfavorable economic conditions that currently exist and that may exist in the future. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our marketing, development, licensing, or acquisition programs. We could be required to seek funds through arrangements with others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise pursue on our own. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our then-existing stockholders will experience dilution and the terms of any new equity securities may have preferences over our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 