ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us as our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected by any of them. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us may also impair our operations. Risks Relating to Our Capital Structure Holders of Class A Common Stock Who Also Own Memberships in the CBOT May Have Interests That Differ From or Conflict With Those of Holders of Class A Common Stock Who Are Not Also Owners of Memberships in the CBOT We believe that holders of Class A common stock who also own memberships in the CBOT collectively own a substantial portion of our outstanding Class A common stock. As a result, such stockholders will, if voting in the 13 Table of Contents same manner on any matters, control the outcome of a vote on all such matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including electing directors and approving changes of control. In addition, 13 of the 17 members of our board of directors are members of the CBOT. We are dependent upon the revenues from the trading and clearing activities of the members of the CBOT. This dependence also gives the CBOT members substantial influence over how we operate our business. Many of the CBOT’s members derive a substantial portion of their income from their trading or clearing activities on or through the CBOT. The amount of income that members of the CBOT derive from their trading or clearing activities and the value of their memberships in the CBOT are in part dependent on the fees they are charged to trade, clear and access our markets and the rules and structure of our markets. CBOT members, many of whom act as floor brokers and floor traders, benefit from trading rules, membership privileges and fee discounts that enhance their trading opportunities and profits. In addition, trading privileges on the CBOT have substantial independent value, including, in the case of Series B-1 (Full) members, value associated with the CBOE exercise right described below. Holders of Class A common stock who are not members will not have trading privileges or the CBOE exercise right. In view of the foregoing, holders of Class A common stock who do not also own a membership in the CBOT may not have the same economic interests as holders of Class A common stock who also own a membership in the CBOT. In addition, CBOT members may have differing interests among themselves depending on a variety of factors, including the class of membership they own, whether they possess the CBOE exercise right, the role they serve in our markets, their method of trading and the products they trade. Consequently, CBOT members may advocate that we enhance and protect their clearing and trading opportunities and the value of their trading privileges over their economic interest in us represented by the Class A common stock they own. For example, the CBOE has announced its own plans to demutualize. In connection therewith, we currently expect that, if necessary, we would vigorously defend the rights of CBOT members who are eligible to utilize the CBOE exercise right to participate in such demutualization. Although we believe that defending the CBOE exercise right would be in the best interests of the holders of Class A common stock and CBOT members over the long-term, holders of Class A common stock and the various classes of CBOT members would likely not experience the same benefits during the short-term as a result of our taking such actions. Series B-1 (Full) and Series B-2 (Associate) Members of the CBOT Have Certain Special Rights, Which Protect Their Trading Rights and Give Them Special Board Representation Under the terms of the CBOT’s certificate of incorporation, the holders of Series B-1 (Full) and B-2 (Associate) memberships in the CBOT have the exclusive right among members to vote on proposals by the board of directors of the CBOT to amend the bylaws of the CBOT in a manner that would adversely affect the following “core rights”: • the allocation of products that holders of any series of Class B membership may trade on the CBOT (that is, the elimination of any product from a holder’s trading rights and privileges); • the requirement that, subject to certain limited exceptions, holders of Class B memberships are charged transaction fees for trades of the CBOT’s products that are lower than the transaction fees charged to someone who is not a holder of a Class B membership for the same products; • the membership and eligibility requirements to become a holder of a Class B membership or to exercise the associated trading rights or privileges; • the commitment to maintain current open-auction markets so long as each such market is deemed liquid; and • the requirement that any proposal to offer electronic trading between 6:00 a.m., Central Time, and 6:00 p.m., Central Time, of agricultural products currently traded on our open-auction markets be approved by the holders of Series B-1 (Full) and B-2 (Associate) memberships in the CBOT. 14 Table of Contents The CBOT has called a special meeting of its members to vote on a proposal to amend its amended and restated certificate of incorporation and rules to eliminate the requirement that Series B-1 (Full) and Series B-2 (Associate) members approve any proposal to permit trading of agricultural contracts and products on the e-cbot system between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Central time. The special meeting is scheduled for March 8, 2006. We cannot assure you whether the proposals will be approved by members or, if approved, whether electronic trading of agricultural products during the day will be approved by the CBOT’s board of directors. In addition, we cannot assure you that the proposals or any decision by the board of directors regarding electronic trading of agricultural products will not be challenged by some of the CBOT’s members. Amendments to the CBOT’s certificate of incorporation require the approval of a majority of votes cast by the holders of Series B-1 (Full) and B-2 (Associate) memberships, voting together as a single class based on their respective voting rights, except for any amendment to the requirement to maintain open-auction markets, which would require approval of a majority of the total voting power of the outstanding Series B-1 (Full) and Series B-2 (Associate) memberships, voting together as a single class. Series B-1 (Full) members are entitled to one vote per Series B-1 (Full) membership, and Series B-2 (Associate) members are entitled to one-sixth of one vote per Series B-2 (Associate) membership. In addition, six of our 17 directors are designated “subsidiary directors” and are elected exclusively by a voting trust which holds the sole share of our Class B common stock. This voting trust is required by its terms to elect as directors of CBOT Holdings those persons elected to the board of directors of the CBOT by the Series B-1 (Full) and B-2 (Associate) members of the CBOT. Consequently, CBOT members have certain special rights, which are designed to protect their clearing and trading opportunities and the value of their trading privileges over the economic interest in us represented by Class A common stock. The Lapse of Transfer Restrictions Applicable to Common Stock Issued to CBOT Members May Cause Volatility in the Market Price for our Common Stock As of February 23, 2006, there were issued and outstanding 52,816,929 shares of our Class A common stock (consisting of 3,708,096 shares of Class A common stock, 16,376,502 shares of Series A-1, Class A common stock, 16,353,172 shares of Series A-2, Class A common stock, and 16,379,159 shares of Series A-3, Class A common stock). The shares of Series A-1, A-2 and A-3 common stock were received by CBOT members in connection with the restructuring transactions and are generally subject to a complete restriction on transfer, subject to certain permitted transfers. However, holders of Series A-1, A-2 and A-3 common stock may transfer all, but not less than all, of their shares of Series A-1, A-2 and A-3 common stock if all such shares are transferred together with the Class B membership associated with such shares. The transfer restriction periods applicable to each series of Class A common stock are scheduled to expire: • April 22, 2006 in the case of Series A-1 common stock; • October 19, 2006 in the case of Series A-2 common stock; and • April 17, 2007 in the case of Series A-3 common stock. The first two of these periods may be extended by as much as 150 days in the event we elect to conduct organized sales of Class A common stock in connection with the lapse of such restriction periods. However, our board has determined not to conduct an organized sale in connection with the first period. Consequently, as early as April 22, 2006, the transfer restrictions that currently limit the holders of restricted Class A common stock from selling as many as approximately 16,376,502 shares of Class A common stock in the public markets will lapse. Given the large number of shares that will become available for sale in the public markets 15 Table of Contents at that time as well as in connection with the lapse of the transfer restrictions applicable to the Series A-2 and A-3, Class A common stock relative to the number of shares currently available for sale in the public markets, the market price for our common stock may be volatile, and may decline, in connection with the lapse of such transfer restrictions. Of course, the effect of these lapses in transfer restrictions on the volatility of the market price for our common stock may be offset to an extent by exchange-related requirements for members to continue to hold such common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business Intense Competition Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Financial Performance The derivatives trading industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are more established or have greater financial resources than we do. Many of our competitors also have greater access to capital markets as well as more substantial marketing capabilities and technological and personnel resources. We expect that competition will intensify in the future. Such competition is likely to include price competition. For example, in February 2004, in response to market conditions, we decreased exchange fees on selected contracts traded on our electronic trading platform, which resulted in a 57% reduction of electronic trading fees for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the prior year period. Price competition in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competitive pressures may cause us to re-evaluate our current business model and strategies. For example, in an industry where a substantial portion of derivatives are traded electronically, the concept of an open-auction platform may change swiftly and substantially. Increased development of the electronic trading could substantially increase competition for some or all of the products and services we currently provide. In addition, our competitors may: • respond more quickly to competitive pressures; • develop products similar to the products we offer that are preferred by our customers; • develop non-traditional alternative risk transfer products that compete with our products; • price their products and services more competitively; • develop and expand their network infrastructures and service offerings more efficiently; • adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements; • utilize better, more user-friendly and more reliable technology; • take greater advantage of acquisitions, alliances and other opportunities; • more effectively market, promote and sell their products and services; • better leverage existing relationships with clients and strategic partners or exploit better recognized brand names to market, distribute and sell their services; and • exploit regulatory disparities between traditional, regulated exchanges and alternative markets that benefit from a reduced regulatory burden and a lower-cost business model. Our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include securities exchanges, options and other derivatives exchanges, market data and information vendors, electronic communications networks, crossing systems and similar entities, consortia of large customers and some of our clearing member firms and interdealer brokerage firms. We may also face competition from computer software companies and media and technology companies. As a result of this intense competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers to our markets, products and services. In addition, we cannot assure you that we 16 Table of Contents will not lose customers because of more economical alternatives offered from competitors with comparable or possibly superior products, services or trade execution services. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we fail to attract new customers or lose a substantial number of our current customers to competitors. We May Not Be Successful in Executing Our Electronic Trading Strategy We have committed substantial resources to develop our electronic trading platform, e-cbot powered by LIFFE CONNECT®. In developing e-cbot, we have attempted to balance the desire to maximize system functionality against the associated costs, in both capital expenditure and time to market. We cannot assure you these initiatives will be successful. Our failure to successfully execute our electronic trading strategy could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We Are Subject to Certain Risks Associated with the Globalization of Our Business We expect that the expansion of our electronic markets will continue to increase the portion of our business that is generated from outside the United States. The globalization of our business presents a number of inherent risks, including the following: • potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • the evolving global tax treatment of electronic commerce, and the possibility that foreign governments could adopt onerous or inconsistent tax policies with respect to taxation of products traded on our markets or of the services that we provide; • tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those of the United States and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • listed derivatives markets are regulated in most developed nations, and it may be impractical for us to secure or maintain the regulatory approvals necessary for our markets to be accessible from one or more nations; • certain of our expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, which exposes us to the risk of fluctuating exchange rates and we may not fully eliminate this risk through our hedging activity; • general economic and political conditions in the countries from which our markets are accessed may have an adverse effect on our trading from those countries; and • it may be difficult or impossible to enforce our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries. As we expand our business globally, our success will be dependent, in part, upon our ability to anticipate and manage these and other risks effectively. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole. Our Recent Change to a For-Profit Company May Cause Members to Seek Alternative Trading Venues and Products, Which Could Negatively Impact the Liquidity of Our Markets and Our Trading Volume When we became a for-profit company, we changed the role of our members in the operation of our business. We gave our professional staff greater decision-making responsibilities. Subject to the oversight of our board of directors, our management is charged with making decisions that are designed to enhance stockholder value, which may lead to decisions or outcomes with which our members disagree. These changes may make us less attractive to our members and encourage them to conduct their business at, or seek membership in, another exchange or to trade in equivalent products among themselves on a private, bilateral basis. A material decrease in member trading activity would negatively impact liquidity and trading volume in our products and reduce our revenues. A material reduction in the number of our clearing firms and the capital they provide to guarantee their trades and the trades of their customers would also diminish the strength and attractiveness of our markets. 17 Table of Contents Our Trading Volume, and Consequently Our Revenues and Profits, Could Be Materially Adversely Affected If We Are Unable to Retain Our Current Customers or Attract New Customers to Our Exchange or If Derivative Trading Volume in General Decreases The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase our trading volume and the resulting exchange fees. To do so, we must maintain and expand our product offerings, our customer base and our trade execution alternatives. Our success also depends on our ability to offer competitive prices and services in an increasingly price-sensitive business. In addition, our success depends on our ability to increase the base of individual customers who trade our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to expand our product lines, or that we will be able to retain our current customers or attract new customers. We also cannot assure you that we will not lose customers to low-cost competitors with comparable or superior products, services or trade execution facilities. If we fail to expand our product offerings or execution facilities, or lose a substantial number of our current customers, or are unable to attract new customers, our business will be adversely affected. Furthermore, declines in the overall volume of trading derivatives may negatively impact market liquidity on our exchange, which would result in lower exchange fee revenues and could materially adversely affect our ability to retain our current customers or attract new customers. We Have Little Internal Experience in Operating a For-Profit Derivatives Exchange From our formation over 150 years ago until our demutualization on April 22, 2005, we operated as a mutual, or member-owned, organization for the benefit of our members, focused on delivering member benefits and enhancing member opportunity at reasonable cost. Since then, we have begun to operate our business for the long-term benefit of our stockholders rather than solely for the purpose of delivering member benefits and enhancing member opportunity. As a result, our historical financial and business results may not be representative of what they may be in the future. Further, our management has limited experience operating a for-profit business. Consequently, our continued transition to for-profit operations will be subject to risks, expenses and difficulties that we cannot predict and may not be capable of handling in an efficient manner. We Depend on Our Executive Officers and Other Key Personnel Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive officers, as well as various key management, technical and trading operations personnel. We believe that it is difficult to hire and retain executive management with the skills and abilities desirable for managing and operating a derivatives exchange. The loss of key management such as our President and Chief Executive Officer, Bernard W. Dan, our Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer, William M. Farrow III, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Bryan T. Durkin, our Executive Vice President of Marketing and Business Development, Christopher Malo, or our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Glen M. Johnson, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assure you that any of our key personnel will not voluntarily terminate his or her employment with us. Our future success also depends, in significant part, upon our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled and often specialized individuals as employees, particularly in light of the rapid pace of technological advances. The level of competition in our industry for people with these skills is intense, and from time to time we have experienced losses of key employees. Significant losses of key personnel, particularly to other employers with which we compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We May Not Effectively Manage Our Growth We intend to develop and expand our business, including both our electronic trading and open-auction platforms. This growth may place a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures, and we 18 Table of Contents will need to continue to expand, train and manage our technology workforce. We must also maintain close coordination among our technology, compliance, accounting, finance, marketing and sales organizations. We cannot assure you that we will manage our growth effectively, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We Are Subject to Certain Risks Relating to the Operation of an Electronic Trading Platform We are subject to risks relating generally to our electronic trading platform, e-cbot, which include our failure or inability to: • acquire, develop or implement new, enhanced or updated versions of electronic trading software; • attract independent software vendors to write front-end software that effectively accesses our electronic trading platform; • increase the number of devices, such as trading and order routing terminals, capable of sending orders to our floor and to our electronic trading platform; and • respond effectively to technological developments or service offerings by competitors. If our electronic trading platform is not successful, our business or future financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. We Depend on Third Party Suppliers for Services That Are Important to Our Business We depend on a number of suppliers, such as banking, clearing and settlement organizations, telephone companies, online service providers, data processors and software and hardware vendors for elements of our trading, clearing and other systems, as well as communications and networking equipment, computer hardware and software and related support and maintenance. In particular, we rely upon the CME to provide certain clearing services as part of the CME/CBOT Common Clearing Link and AEMS to support our electronic trading platform, e-cbot. Thus, in addition to being competitors (or affiliated with competitors), CME and AEMS are two of our critical third-party suppliers. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We May Be Unable to Keep Up With Rapid Technological Changes To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and features of our proprietary software, network distribution systems and other technologies. The financial services and e-commerce industries are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in use and customer requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render obsolete our existing proprietary technology and systems. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • develop or license leading technologies useful in our business; • enhance our existing services; • develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective clients; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. 19 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, and a failure to so respond could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Computer and Communications Systems Failures and Capacity Constraints Could Harm Our Reputation and Our Business Our failure to operate, monitor or maintain our computer systems and network services, including those systems and services related to our electronic trading platform, or, if necessary, to find replacements for our technology in a timely and cost-effective manner, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. We rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, on-line service providers, data processors, clearance organizations and software and hardware vendors. Our systems or those of our third-party providers have in the past failed and may in the future fail, causing one or more of the following effects: • suspension of trading; • unanticipated disruptions in service to customers; • slower response times; • delays in trade execution; • decreased customer satisfaction; • incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; • financial losses; • security breaches; • litigation or other customer claims; and • regulatory sanctions. Our status as a CFTC registrant requires that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volume. Heavy use of our computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause our systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. We monitor system loads and performance and regularly implement system upgrades to handle estimated increases in trading volume. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volume will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volume without failure or degradation of performance. System failure or degradation could lead our customers to file formal complaints with industry regulatory organizations, file lawsuits against us or cease doing business with us or could lead the CFTC or other regulators to initiate inquiries or proceedings for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that we will not experience system failures, outages or interruptions on either our electronic trading platform or open-auction platform that will materially adversely affect our business. Any such system failures, outages or interruptions could result from a number of factors, including power or telecommunications failure, war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, acts of vandalism or similar events. Any failures that cause an interruption in service or decrease our responsiveness, including failures caused by customer error or misuse of our systems, could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 20 Table of Contents Our Networks and Those of Our Third-Party Service Providers May be Vulnerable to Security Risks We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers, our member firms and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. Declines in the Global Financial Markets May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business Adverse economic and political conditions may cause declines in global financial markets and may affect our operating results. The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the global financial services markets, which could potentially result in reduced trading volume. These events could materially adversely affect our business. These factors include: • economic and political conditions in the United States and elsewhere in the world; • wavering institutional/consumer confidence levels; • the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other wholesale and retail investors; and • legislative and regulatory changes. Our Decision to Operate Both Electronic and Open-Auction Trading Platforms May Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Costs, Markets and Profitability It is expensive in terms of costs and management and other resources to continue operating two trading platforms for the same products. We may not have sufficient resources to adequately fund or manage both trading platforms. This may result in resource allocation decisions that materially adversely impact one or both platforms. Also, if we continue to operate both trading platforms, liquidity on each may be less than the liquidity on a competitive unified trading platform, making our trading platforms less attractive and less competitive. As a result, our total revenues may be lower than if we operated only electronic trading or only open-auction trading platforms. Moreover, to the extent that we continue to operate two trading platforms, our boards and management may make decisions which are designed to enhance the continued viability of two separate trading platforms. These decisions may have a negative impact on the overall competitiveness of each trading platform. Acquisitions and Strategic Partnerships May Not Produce the Results We Expect We currently believe that acquisitions and strategic partnerships are an important component of our growth strategies and could play an important role in our long-term success. In this regard, we may seek to enter into alliances or other arrangements with other parties. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in either developing, or fulfilling the objectives of, any such alliance. Further, our participation in these alliances may strain our resources and may limit our ability to pursue other strategic and business initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our Market Data Fee Revenue May Decline Due to Industry Consolidation Among Market Data Vendors We license our market data to vendors who distribute such data to persons or entities that use or monitor our markets. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our revenue from the sale of market data represented about 16% of our total revenue. Due to industry consolidation among our market data vendors, our year-end subscription levels decreased 8% during 2003, remained relatively flat in 2004 and decreased 2% in 2005. If we continue to experience 21 Table of Contents an overall trend of declining subscription levels, we may lose market data fee revenue if we are unable to continue to recover that lost revenue through terminal usage fees, increased transaction fees or the development of alternative market data products. Our Cost Structure is Largely Fixed Our cost structure, with the exception of any stock-based compensation, is largely fixed. We base our overall cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. If demand for our products and services and our resulting revenues decline, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. If we are unable to reduce our costs in the amount that our revenues decline, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. Our Average Rate Per Contract is Subject to Fluctuation due to a Number of Factors and, as a Result, May Not be a Reliable Indicator of Our Average Rate Per Contract in any Future Period Our average rate per contract, which is a measure of our exchange and clearing revenue relative to our total reported contract volume, fluctuates due to a number of factors, including: the exchange and clearing fee structure, types of products transacted, mix of transactions on the electronic trading and open auction platforms, persons initiating transactions (e.g., member or customer) and availability of any exchange incentives. As a result, our average rate per contract reported in any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of our average rate per contract in any future period. Our Business is Subject to Risks Related to Our Real Estate Holdings Revenue from our real estate operations represented about 5% of our operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. Lower occupancy rates, market rental rates and non-renewal of leases by tenants could have a material adverse effect on revenue from building operations. Any decrease in leased space could also affect future building service revenue if there is no corresponding demand for the vacated office space. Furthermore, most of our tenants are engaged in businesses that are directly or indirectly related to the brokerage/trading industry or related areas of financial services and adverse business conditions affecting those businesses could have a material adverse effect on our occupancy rates and building services revenues. We Are Dependent Upon Distributions and Dividends From Our Operating Subsidiaries to Meet Our Obligations CBOT Holdings has no business operations of its own. CBOT Holdings is a holding company and its only significant asset consists of a special membership in the CBOT. This membership entitles CBOT Holdings to all dividends and distributions, including proceeds upon liquidation, from the CBOT. As a result, CBOT Holdings relies exclusively upon distributions from the CBOT in order to meet its obligations. We expect that most of the earnings and cash flow of the CBOT will continue to be retained and used by it in its operations, including for purposes of servicing debt obligations it has now or may incur in the future. Risks Relating to Regulation and Litigation The Legal Framework for Our Industry Has Been Modified to Lower Barriers to Entry and Decrease Continuing Regulatory Costs for Competitors Our industry has been subject to several fundamental regulatory changes, including changes in the statute under which we have operated since 1974. In the past, the Commodity Exchange Act generally required all futures contracts to be executed on an exchange that has been approved by the CFTC. The exchange trading requirement was modified by CFTC regulations to permit privately negotiated swap contracts to be transacted in the over-the-counter market. The CFTC exemption under which the over-the-counter derivative market operated 22 Table of Contents precluded the over-the-counter market from avoiding CFTC regulation for exchange-like electronic transaction systems and clearing. These regulatory restrictions on the over-the-counter market were repealed by the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000. It is possible that the chief beneficiaries of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act will be over-the-counter dealers and competitors that operate or intend to open electronic trading facilities or to conduct their futures business directly among themselves on a bilateral basis. The customers who may access such electronic exchanges or engage in such bilateral private transactions are the same customers who conduct the vast majority of their financial business on regulated exchanges. The Commodity Futures Modernization Act also permits banks, broker-dealers and some of their affiliates to engage in foreign exchange futures transactions for or with retail customers without being subjected to regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act. In the future, our industry may become subject to new regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing regulations. We cannot predict the extent to which any future regulatory changes may materially adversely affect our business. We May Not Be Able to Maintain Our Self-Regulatory Responsibilities Some financial services regulators have publicly stated their concerns about the ability of a financial exchange, organized as a for-profit corporation, to adequately discharge its self-regulatory responsibilities. Our regulatory programs and capabilities contribute significantly to our brand name and reputation. Although we believe that we will be permitted to maintain these responsibilities, we cannot assure you that we will not be required to modify or restructure our regulatory functions in order to address these or other concerns. Any such modifications or restructuring of our regulatory functions could entail material costs for which we have not currently planned. We Are Subject to Significant Risks of Litigation Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. For example, dissatisfied customers frequently make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud against their service providers. We may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of systems and services provided by us. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. An adverse resolution of lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and/or operating results. We are currently subject to various litigation matters. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending any of these matters, and resulting adverse judgments could have a material adverse effect on us. Any Infringement by Us on Patent Rights of Others Could Result in Litigation and Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operations Our competitors as well as other companies and individuals may obtain, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents that concern products or services related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products, services or technologies. Claims of infringement are not uncommon in our industry. For example, we believe that in recent years Trading Technologies International, Inc. has filed numerous lawsuits against derivatives industry participants, alleging infringement of certain patents relating to Trading Technologies’ trading software. Although we do not believe that Trading Technologies has sued any exchanges, Trading Technologies has indicated that it intends to protect its intellectual property, and we cannot assure you that Trading Technologies will not take such actions in the future. In general, if one or more of our products, services or technologies were to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products, services or technologies, to obtain licenses to develop 23 Table of Contents and market the services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products, services or technologies in such a way as to avoid infringing on the patent claims. If we were unable to obtain these licenses and were required to redesign or stop developing or marketing our products, services or technologies to avoid infringement, we may not be able to redesign, and could be required to stop developing or marketing, our products, services or technologies, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We May Not Be Able to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights We rely primarily on trade secret, copyright, service mark, trademark law and contractual protections to protect our proprietary technology and other proprietary rights. Notwithstanding that we take precautions to protect our intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. We also seek to protect our software and databases as trade secrets and under copyright law. We have copyright registrations for certain of our software, user manuals and databases. The copyright protection accorded to databases, however, is fairly limited. While the arrangement and selection of data generally are protectable, in many instances the actual data are not, and others may be free to create databases that would perform the same function. In some cases, including a number of our most important products, there may be no effective legal recourse against duplication by competitors. In addition, in the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and diversions of our resources, either of which could materially adversely affect our business. Member Misconduct Could Harm Us and is Difficult to Detect Although we perform significant self-regulatory functions, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct in the futures industry in recent years. We run the risk that the holders of Class B memberships in the CBOT, other persons who use our markets or our employees will engage in fraud or other misconduct, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational harm. It is not always possible to deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 