Risk Factors” section, a number of factors may cause our revenue to fall short of our expectations or cause fluctuations in our operating results, including: • Our ability to gain and maintain “design wins” with our customers and ramp up new designs into production volumes; • Customer inventory levels and market share; • Growth rate of the flat-panel TV and LCD monitor markets; • Seasonal consumer demand for flat-panel TV, high definition TV (“HDTV”) and LCD monitors into which our products are incorporated; • Changes in the mix of products we sell, especially between our higher-priced TV/video products and our lower-priced monitor products; • Increased competition and competitive pricing pressures; • The timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors; • Availability and pricing of panels and other components for flat-panel TVs and LCD monitors; • Wafer costs and other product fabrication costs; • Foreign exchange rate fluctuations, research and development tax credits and other factors that impact tax rates; and • Changes in product costs or manufacturing yields or available production capacity at our fabrication facilities. As a result of the fluctuation in our revenues and operating results, our stock price can be volatile, especially if our actual financial performance in a quarter deviates from the financial targets we set at the beginning of that quarter, or from market expectations. 9 Table of Contents We have had significant senior management and key employee turnover, and may not be able to attract, retain and motivate the personnel we need to succeed. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales and marketing positions. We have recently experienced significant turnover in our senior management team. Several executives and other key employees have left the company, while others have joined or have been appointed to senior management roles, including the following: • In May 2006, Tzoyao Chan, our Senior Vice President, Product Development, resigned and Behrooz Yadegar joined the company as his successor. • In July 2006, Ken Murray, our Vice President, Human Resources, resigned and we appointed a successor. • In August 2006, Mohammad Tafazzoli, our Senior Vice President, Operations, resigned and we appointed a successor. • In September 2006, Hildy Shandell, our Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, joined the company. • In October 2006, Raphael Mehrbians, our Senior Vice President, Product Marketing, resigned and we appointed two Vice Presidents of Marketing, but have not yet appointed a Senior Vice President. • In May 2007, Michael Healy, our Chief Financial Officer, resigned and we have not yet appointed a successor. • In June 2007, Anders Frisk, our Executive Vice President, resigned and we have not yet appointed a successor. In addition, we have lost key technical personnel. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. We may not be able to attract and retain the senior management or other key employees that we need. Competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. If we cannot attract and retain the employees we need, our business could be harmed, particularly if the departure of any executive or key employee results in a business interruption or if we are not successful in preserving material knowledge of our departing employees. We must increase our revenues and reduce our operating expenses in order to return to profitability and we may not be able to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We were not profitable in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 was approximately $144.3 million. As of March 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $141.5 million. Returning to profitability will depend in large part on our ability to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods. We also need to reduce operating expenses to a level commensurate with our revenues, while successfully executing our product development strategy. As a result, we have and expect that we may continue to implement cost reductions through reductions-in-force, outsourcing, and the like. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our operating expenses. We may not succeed in returning to profitability and could incur losses in future periods and, even if we do return to profitability, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. If we cannot increase our revenue at a greater rate than our expenses, we will not become profitable. We face intense competition in our market, especially from larger, better-known companies, and we may lack sufficient financial or other resources to maintain or improve our competitive position. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive and are characterized by technological change, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and improvements, evolving industry standards and rapidly declining average selling prices. We expect the level of competition to increase in the future. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, our competitive position will be harmed, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. 10 Table of Contents Our chief competitors include both large and small companies, such as AMD (ATI Technologies), Broadcom Corporation, LSI Corporation, Micronas Semiconductor Holding AG, Mediatek Inc., MStar Semiconductor, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, Novatek Microelectronics Corp., NXP Seminconductors, Pixelworks, Inc., Realtek Semiconductor Corp., Renesas Technology Corp., Silicon Image, Inc., ST Microelectronics,N.V., Trident Microsystems, Inc., and Zoran Corporation. In addition, many of our current and potential customers have their own internally developed integrated circuit solutions, and may choose not to purchase solutions from third party merchant suppliers like Genesis. We may also face competition from start-up companies. Some of our competitors, who may include our own customers, also include companies with greater financial and other resources than we have. Large companies may have advantages over us because of their longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger customer bases or greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They also have greater resources to devote to the promotion and sale of their products than we have. In addition, our overseas competitors have reduced cost structures that enable them to compete aggressively on price. Increased competition could harm our business, by, for example, increasing pressure on our profit margins or causing us to lose customers. Also, we have received a license from Silicon Image, Inc. for certain of their digital visual interface (DVI) patents and high definition multimedia interface (HDMI) patents, and must pay Silicon Image royalties on all of our DVI and HDMI products. This agreement, and other royalty obligations we may have, could hinder our ability to compete with unlicensed competitors that are not required to pay royalties on competing products. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or potential competitors, especially those with significantly greater financial resources or brand name recognition. Our failure to respond quickly to customer demand for technological improvements and integrate new features could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete. To compete successfully, we must develop new products and improve our existing products at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. For example, in order to compete successfully in the digital television market, consumer electronics manufacturers must first select our products for incorporation into their digital televisions (giving us a so-called “design win”), and then we must be able to deliver those products in high volumes in a timely fashion. Manufacturers may not choose our digital television solution over our competitors’ solutions. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that our product will be selected for a design win. Even if we are chosen, the design win may not result in any significant revenues to us, since sales of our products largely depend on the commercial success of our customers’ display products, and whether our customers are relying on us merely as a second source. In addition, we need to design products for customers that continually require higher functionality at lower costs. We must, therefore, continue to add features to our products and to include these features on a single chip. The development process for these advancements is lengthy and will require us to accurately anticipate technological innovations and market trends. Developing and enhancing these products is time-consuming, costly and complex. There is a risk that these developments and enhancements will be late, fail to meet customer or market specifications, and will not be competitive with other products using alternative technologies that offer comparable functionality. These types of events could continue have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize and record impairments of our assets. We do not have long-term commitments from our customers, so it is difficult for us to forecast our revenues, and could result in excess inventory. Our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. In addition, our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders. We provide revenue guidance and manufacture our products according to our estimates of customer demand and we have limited visibility of such demand beyond one quarter. This process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may miss our revenue guidance, which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, the timing and correction of this overestimation, could cause us to manufacture 11 Table of Contents products that we may not be able to sell. As a result, we could have excess inventory, which could increase our losses. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we could forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. A limited number of our customers comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenue from these customers could have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results. The markets for our products are highly concentrated. Our revenues are derived from a limited number of customers. Revenues from our largest five customers accounted for 52% of our revenues, with 16% of our revenues coming from our largest customer, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. Any downturn in the business of our key customers or potential new customers could have a negative impact on our sales to such customers, which could adversely affect our net revenues and results of operations. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a large amount of our revenues. The decision by any large customer to decrease or cease using our products would harm our business. For example, during fiscal year 2007, we lost significant TV designs with one of our largest customers. This loss is expected to negatively impact our revenue until we are able to regain designs with that customer or other customers. In addition, several of our customers sell to a limited number of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). The decision by any large OEM to decrease or cease using our customer’s products could, in turn, cause our customer to decrease or cease buying from us. Most of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements so that any customer could cease purchasing products at any time without penalty. Our success will depend on the growth of the market for flat-panel televisions and LCD monitors, and our customers’ commercial success in those markets. Our ability to generate revenues depends on the growth of the market for flat-panel televisions, digital televisions and LCD computer monitors. Since we do not sell to every manufacturer in those markets, our revenues also depend on how well our customers perform in those markets. To the extent that our customers’ share of the flat panel television, LCD monitor or digital television markets declines or does not grow, the sales of our products will be negatively impacted. In addition, our growth will also depend upon emerging markets for consumer electronics such as HDTV. The potential size of these markets and the timing of their development are uncertain and will depend in particular upon: • A continued reduction in the costs of products in the respective markets; • The availability, at a reasonable price, of components required by such products (such as LCD panels); and • The emergence of competing technologies and standards. These and other potential markets may not develop as expected, which would harm our business. Our success may depend in part on market adoption of the DisplayPort digital interface standard. The DisplayPort digital display interface, which is based on technology developed by Genesis and is expected to be used in our products, is a new interface standard that has yet to achieve widespread adoption. DisplayPort is an alternative to older, established interconnect standards such as DVI, and therefore could face significant obstacles to adoption. In addition, other new standards may be introduced which could impact DisplayPort’s success. If DisplayPort does not achieve market adoption in the computer and/or consumer electronics industry, our ability to generate revenue from DisplayPort-based products would be limited. Our customers experience fluctuating product cycles and seasonality, which causes their sales to fluctuate. Our products are incorporated into flat-panel and CRT displays. Because the market for flat-panel displays is characterized by numerous new product introductions, our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our customers also experience seasonality in the sales of their products, which affects their orders of our 12 Table of Contents products. Typically, the second half of the calendar year represents a disproportionate percentage of sales for our customers due to the holiday shopping period for consumer electronics products, and therefore, a disproportionate percentage of our sales. Also, our sales in the first quarter of the calendar year may be lower as a result of the Chinese New Year holiday in Asia. We expect these sales fluctuations to continue for the foreseeable future. We must sell our current products in greater volumes, or introduce new products with improved margins. Average selling prices for our products have declined in the past, in many cases significantly, and we expect them to continue to decline in the future. When average selling prices decline, our revenues decline unless we are able to sell more units, and our gross margin dollars decline unless we are able to reduce our manufacturing and/or other supply chain costs by a commensurate amount. We, therefore, need to sell our current products in greater volumes to offset the decline in their ASPs, and introduce new products that have improved gross margins. Our semiconductor products are complex and are difficult to manufacture cost-effectively. Manufacturing semiconductor products is a complex process. It is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to achieve acceptable product yields. Product yields depend on both our product design and the manufacturing process technology unique to the semiconductor foundry. Since low yields may result from either design or process difficulties, identifying yield problems may occur well into the production cycle, when a product exists which can be physically analyzed and tested. Low yields negatively impact our gross margins and our financial results. Product quality problems could increase our costs, cause customer claims, and delay our product shipments. Although we test our products, they are complex and may contain defects and errors. In the past, we have encountered defects and errors in our products. Delivery of products with defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems may damage our reputation and our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, product defects and errors could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical resources, delayed product shipments, increased product returns, and product liability claims against us which may not be covered by insurance. Any of these could harm our business. We rely on distribution partners to sell our products, and disruptions to or our failure to effectively develop these channels could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products. We derive a substantial percentage of our total revenues from sales by distributors of our products. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, revenues and sales through distributors represented approximately 22% of our total revenue. We expect that our revenues will continue to depend, in part, on the performance of these distributors. We do not expect to have any long-term contracts or minimum purchase commitments with any of our distributors. In addition, our distributors may sell products that are competitive with ours, may devote more resources to those competitive products and may cease selling our products altogether. The distributors through whom we sell our products may not be successful in selling our products for reasons beyond our control. If any of the foregoing occurs, our operating results will suffer. We subcontract our manufacturing, assembly and test operations. We do not have our own fabrication facilities, assembly or testing operations. Instead, we rely on others to fabricate, assemble and test all of our products. We do not have any long-term supply contracts with any of these suppliers. Most of our products use silicon wafers manufactured by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation. If we were required to obtain silicon wafers from other manufacturers, we could experience a material increase in the price we must pay for silicon wafers. There are many risks associated with our dependence upon outside manufacturing, including: • Lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; 13 Table of Contents • Increased manufacturing cost or the unavailability of product in the event that manufacturing capacity becomes constrained; • Reduced control over manufacturing and delivery schedules of products; • Reduced control over quality assurance and reliability; • Difficulty of managing manufacturing costs and quantities; • Potential misappropriation of intellectual property; and • Political or environmental risks (including earthquake and other natural disasters) in Taiwan, where the manufacturing facilities are located. We depend upon outside manufacturers to fabricate silicon wafers on which our integrated circuits are imprinted. These wafers must be of acceptable quality and in sufficient quantity and the manufacturers must deliver them to assembly and testing subcontractors on time for packaging into final products. We have, at times, experienced delivery delays, long manufacturing lead times and product quality issues. These manufacturers fabricate, test and assemble products for other companies. We cannot be sure that our manufacturers will devote adequate resources to the production of our products or deliver sufficient quantities of finished products to us on time or at an acceptable cost. The lead-time necessary to establish strategic relationships with new manufacturing partners is considerable. We would be unable to readily obtain an alternative source of supply for any of our products if this proves necessary. Any occurrence of these manufacturing difficulties could harm our business or cause us to incur costs to obtain adequate and timely supply of products. Our products require licenses of third-party technology that may not be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. We license technology from third parties that is incorporated into our products. Future products or product enhancements may require additional third-party licenses, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Third-party licenses may impact our gross margins. We also license third-party intellectual property in order to comply with display technology standards. For example, we signed the DVI Adopters Agreement and the HDMI Adopters Agreement in order to obtain a license to those standards. However, even though we licensed the DVI technology, Silicon Image, Inc., one of the promoters of the DVI standard, sued us for allegedly infringing certain DVI patents. In December 2006, we entered into a royalty-bearing Settlement and License Agreement with Silicon Image. If we are unable to obtain third-party licenses required to develop new products and product enhancements, or to comply with applicable standards, we could be at competitive disadvantage. Because of the lengthy sales cycles for our products and the fixed nature of a significant portion of our expenses, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue and may not ultimately achieve our forecasted sales for our products. Because our products are based on new technology and standards, a lengthy sales process, typically requiring several months or more, is often required before potential customers begin the technical evaluation of our products. This technical evaluation can then exceed nine months and it may take an additional nine months before a customer commences volume shipments of systems that incorporate our products. However, even when a manufacturer decides to design our products into its systems, the manufacturer may never ship systems incorporating our products. Given our lengthy sales cycle, we experience a delay between the time we increase expenditures for research and development, sales and marketing efforts and inventory and the time we generate revenues, if any, from these expenditures. These long cycles, as well as our expectation that customers will tend to sporadically place large orders with short lead times, may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our business could be harmed if a significant customer reduces or delays its orders or chooses not to release products incorporating our products. Given our customer concentration and our lengthy sales cycle, the loss or decline in volume of one or several key customers could have a material impact on our revenue for a sustained period of time. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with international operations, which may harm our business. We depend on product design groups located outside of the United States, primarily in Canada and India. We also rely on foreign third-party manufacturing, assembly and testing operations. These foreign operations subject us to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the United States, including the following: • Unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; • Delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; • Imposition of additional taxes and penalties; • The burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and • Other factors beyond our control, including acts of terrorism, which may delay the shipment of our products, impair our ability to travel or our ability to communicate with foreign locations. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be designed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This increases the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. Our multi-jurisdictional tax structure is complex and we could be subject to increased taxation. We conduct business operations in a number of countries and are subject to taxation in those jurisdictions. We develop our tax position based upon the anticipated nature and structure of our business and the tax laws, administrative practices and judicial decisions now in effect in the countries in which we have assets or conduct business, all of which are subject to change or differing interpretations. We are also subject to audit by local tax authorities which could result in additional tax expense in future periods. Any increase in our income tax expense could adversely impact on our future earnings and cash flows. In addition, some of our subsidiaries provide products and services to, and may undertake significant transactions with, our other subsidiaries that are incorporated in different jurisdictions. Some of these jurisdictions have tax laws with detailed transfer pricing rules which require that all transactions with non-resident related parties be priced using arm’s-length pricing principles. International transfer pricing is a complex area of taxation and generally involves a significant degree of judgment. If international taxation authorities successfully challenge our transfer pricing policies, our income tax expense may be adversely affected. Most of our revenues will come from sales to customers outside of the United States, which creates additional business risks. Most of our revenues come from sales to customers outside of the United States, particularly to equipment manufacturers located in South Korea, China, Europe, Japan and Taiwan. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, sales to regions outside of the United States represented 99% of revenues. For that same period, sales to China and South Korea alone constituted 39% and 25%, respectively. These sales are subject to numerous risks, including: • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Political and economic instability; • Exposure to litigation or government investigations in these countries; • Longer payment periods; • Ability to enforce contracts or payment terms; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; 15 Table of Contents • Export license requirements; and • Unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. Because our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price of our products in non-U.S. markets and may make our products more expensive than competitors’ products denominated in local currencies. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may lead to significant variances in the demand for our products. In the past, significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand have characterized the semiconductor industry. Also, the industry has experienced significant fluctuations in anticipation of changes in general economic conditions, including economic conditions in Asia. These cycles have led to significant variances in product demand and production capacity. They have also accelerated the erosion of average selling prices per unit. We may experience periodic fluctuations in our future financial results because of changes in industry-wide conditions. We have in the past and may in the future engage in acquisitions of companies, products or technologies, which involve numerous risks and the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we make may never be realized. Our growth is dependent upon our ability to enhance our existing products and introduce new products on a timely basis. One of the ways we may address the need to develop new products is through acquisitions of other companies or technologies, such as our prior acquisitions of Sage and the assets of VM Labs. These acquisitions and potential future acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • We may experience difficulty in assimilating the acquired operations and employees; • We may be unable to retain the key employees of the acquired operations; • The acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing business; • We may not be able to incorporate successfully the acquired technologies and operations into our business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • We may lack the experience to enter into new markets, products or technologies; and • An acquisition we choose to pursue may require a significant amount of capital, which limits our ability to pursue other strategic opportunities. Acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and recent or potential future acquisitions may not be successful and may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We must also maintain our ability to manage growth effectively. Failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquisitions made by us could materially harm our business and operating results. Intellectual property infringement suits brought against us or our customers may significantly harm our business. We defended and settled claims brought against us by Silicon Image, Inc., alleging that certain of our products that contain digital receivers infringe various Silicon Image patent claims. In addition, IP Innovation LLC has sued Toshiba Corporation and other companies that incorporate our products into their displays, alleging patent infringement by certain consumer and professional electronics products, including some that contain our display controller products. These lawsuits, or any future patent infringement lawsuits, could subject us to permanent injunctions preventing us from selling the accused products and/or cause us to incur significant costs, including defense costs, settlements and judgments. In addition, as a result of this lawsuit or any future patent infringement lawsuits, our existing customers may decide to stop buying our products, and prospective customers may be unwilling to buy our products. 16 Table of Contents Intellectual property lawsuits, regardless of their success, are time-consuming and expensive to resolve and divert management time and attention. In addition, if we are unsuccessful and our products (or our customers’ monitors or televisions that contain our products) are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to do one or more of the following: • Stop selling the products or using the technology that are allegedly infringing; • Attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • Incur substantial costs including defense costs, settlements and/or judgments; and • Attempt to redesign those products that are allegedly infringing. As a result, intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial results and market share. We may be required to indemnify our customers against claims of intellectual property infringement. From time to time, we enter into agreements with our customers that contain indemnification provisions for claims based on infringement of third party intellectual property rights. As a result, if such a claim based on our products is made against an indemnified customer, we may be required under our indemnification obligations to defend or settle the litigation, and/or to reimburse that customer for its costs, including defense costs, settlements and judgments. From time to time, we receive requests for indemnification from customers with whom we do not have indemnification agreements. We may also be subject to claims for indemnification under statutory or common law. Patent litigation and any indemnification obligations we may have could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial results and market share, and could result in significant payments by us that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as non-disclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary technologies. We have been issued patents and have pending United States and foreign patent applications. Our patents may be subject to challenges, may not be broad enough to protect our technology, or could be invalidated or circumvented. If we are not successful in obtaining the patent protection we need, our competitors may be able to replicate our technology and compete more effectively against us. The legal protections described above afford only limited protection. It is possible that we may also have to resort to litigation to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents and trade secrets, which litigation could be costly and a diversion of management resources. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents, or even court rulings in our favor regarding our patents, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products, or otherwise attempt to obtain and use our intellectual property or develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and the steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We need to continually evaluate internal financial controls against evolving standards. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers impose duties on us and our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accountants. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations, we have evaluated our internal controls systems that require management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses for internal and outside legal, accounting and advisory services, which have increased our operating expenses and accordingly 17 Table of Contents reduced our net income or increased our net losses. In addition, our Chief Financial Officer resigned in May 2007 and we have otherwise experienced significant turnover in our senior management as more fully described under the risk factor entitled “We have had significant senior management and key employee turnover, and may not be able to attract, retain and motivate the personnel we need to succeed.” If we are not able to maintain internal controls over financial reporting in light of the significant senior management and key employee turnover, we may not be able to meet the requirements of Section 404. While we have met the requirements of Section 404 including the evaluation, documentation and testing of internal controls for the year ended March 31, 2007, we cannot be certain as to the future outcome of our testing and resulting remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with this process. In the event that our Chief Executive Officer, Principal Accounting Officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine in the future that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. In addition, current regulatory standards are subject to change, and additional standards may be imposed. We may become subject to judgments for securities class action suits. We have been a defendant in a securities class action suit. In March 2006, Genesis and the plaintiff signed an agreement to settle the lawsuit, and in December 2006, the court issued a final judgment approving the settlement and dismissing the case with prejudice. However, we may be subject to future securities class action suits, which could subject us to judgments in excess of our insurance coverage and could harm our business. In addition, this kind of lawsuit, regardless of its outcome, is likely to be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and may divert management time and resources. A breakdown in our information technology systems could cause a business interruption, impair our ability to manage our business or report results, or result in the unauthorized disclosure of our confidential and proprietary information. Our information technology systems could suffer a sudden breakdown as a result of factors beyond our control, such as earthquakes, insecure connections or problems with our outside consultants who provide information technology services to us. If our information technology systems were to fail and we were not able to gain timely access to adequate alternative systems or back-up information, this could have a negative impact on our ability to operate and manage our business and to report results in a timely manner. Also, any breach of our information systems by an unauthorized third party could result in our confidential information being made public or being used by a competitor, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to realize the potential of our proprietary rights. General economic conditions may reduce our revenues and harm our business. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. During times of economic slowdown, many industries may delay or reduce technology purchases. As a result, if economic conditions in the United States, Asia or Europe worsen, or if a wider or global economic slowdown occurs, reduced orders and shipments may cause us to fall short of our revenue expectations for any given period and may result in us carrying increased inventory. These conditions would negatively affect our business and results of operations. If our inventory builds up as a result of order postponement, we would carry excess inventory that is either unusable or that must be sold at reduced prices which will harm our revenues and gross margins. In addition, weakness in the technology market could negatively affect the cash flow of our customers who could, in turn, delay paying their obligations to us. This would increase our credit risk exposure, which could harm our financial condition. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 