ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We believe that the following risk factors address the known material risks related to our business, partnership structure and debt obligations, as well as the material tax risks to our common unitholders. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as well as any related benefits of owning our securities, could be materially and adversely affected. On October 5, 2012, Sunoco, Inc. (“Sunoco”) was acquired by Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (“ETP”). Prior to this transaction, Sunoco (through its wholly-owned subsidiary Sunoco Partners LLC) served as the Partnership’s general partner and owned a two percent general partner interest, all of the incentive distribution rights and a 32.4 percent limited partner interest in the Partnership. In connection with the acquisition, Sunoco’s interests in the general partner, including the incentive distribution rights, and limited partnership were contributed to ETP. This resulted in a change in control of the general partner, and as a result, the Partnership became a consolidated subsidiary of ETP on the acquisition date. The risk factor information presented below reflects the impacts of these transactions, including the change in the general partner ownership, and the ongoing business implications. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, our ability to pay quarterly distributions to our common unitholders at current levels or to increase our quarterly distributions in the future, could be materially impaired. Our ability to pay quarterly distributions depends primarily on cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and credit facilities, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses and may be unable to pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations is largely dependent on our ability to successfully manage our business which may also be affected by economic, financial, competitive, and regulatory factors that are beyond our control. To the extent we do not have adequate cash reserves, our ability to pay quarterly distributions to our common unitholders at current levels could be materially impaired. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our units to decline. We depend upon Sunoco for a substantial portion of the volumes transported on our refined products pipelines and handled at our terminals. If Sunoco were to significantly reduce these volumes, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our refined products pipelines and terminal assets provide an efficient outlet to supply Sunoco’s retail marketing network, and as such, we expect that Sunoco will continue to utilize our assets going forward. However, if Sunoco were to reduce its use of our facilities, it could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 20 Table of Contents A sustained decrease in demand for refined products in the markets served by our pipelines and terminals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The following are material factors that could lead to a sustained decrease in market demand for refined products: • a sustained recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower purchases of refined petroleum products; • higher refined products prices due to an increase in the market price of crude oil, changes in economic conditions, or other factors; • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasoline or other refined products; • a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient or alternative fuel vehicles or an increase in fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, pending legislation proposing to mandate higher fuel economy, or otherwise; and • a temporary or permanent material increase in the price of refined products as compared to alternative sources of refined products available to our customers. A material decrease in demand or distribution of crude oil available for transport through our pipelines or terminal facilities could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The volume of crude oil transported through our crude oil pipelines and terminal facilities depends on the availability of attractively priced crude oil produced or received in the areas serviced by our assets. A period of sustained crude oil price declines could lead to a decline in drilling activity, production and import levels in these areas. Similarly, a period of sustained increases in the price of crude oil supplied from any of these areas, as compared to alternative sources of crude oil available to our customers, could materially reduce demand for crude oil in these areas. In either case, the volumes of crude oil transported in our crude oil pipelines and terminal facilities could decline, and it could likely be difficult to secure alternative sources of attractively priced crude oil supply in a timely fashion or at all. If we are unable to replace any significant volume declines with additional volumes from other sources, our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Any reduction in the capability of our shippers to utilize either our pipelines or interconnecting third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes transported in our pipelines and through our terminals. Users of our pipelines and terminals are dependent upon our pipelines, as well as connections to third-party pipelines, to receive and deliver crude oil and refined products. Any interruptions or reduction in the capabilities of our pipelines or these interconnecting pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes would result in reduced volumes transported in our pipelines or through our terminals. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volume over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to our existing shippers on these interconnecting pipelines could be reduced, which also could reduce volumes transported in our pipelines or through our terminals. Allocation reductions of this nature are not infrequent and are beyond our control. Any such interruptions or allocation reductions that, individually or in the aggregate, are material or continue for a sustained period of time could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows could be affected materially and adversely. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving construction of new facilities (or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted 21 Table of Contents operating results. Although we evaluate and monitor each capital spending project and try to anticipate difficulties that may arise, such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of factors that are beyond our control, including: • denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; • disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; • severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; • changes in market conditions impacting long lead-time projects; • market-related increases in a project’s debt or equity financing costs; and • nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. Our forecasted operating results also are based upon our projections of future market fundamentals that are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, availability to our customers of attractively priced alternative supplies of crude oil and refined products and overall customer demand. An impairment of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2012, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $1.37 billion of goodwill and $843 million of intangible assets. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States require us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur, indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Long-lived assets such as intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets were impaired, we would be required to take an immediate charge to earnings with a correlative effect on partners’ capital and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. Future acquisitions and expansions may increase substantially the level of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, and we may be unable to integrate them effectively into our existing operations. We evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement or diversify our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future material acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions, including the integration with our new general partner, involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets, new geographic areas and the businesses associated with them. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. In some cases, we have indemnified the previous owners and operators of acquired assets. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. In addition, the terms of an acquisition may require us to assume certain prior known or unknown liabilities for which we may not be indemnified or have adequate insurance. 22 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. Our operations and those of our customers and suppliers may be subject to operational hazards or unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, and other events beyond our control. If one or more of the facilities that we own, or any third-party facilities that we receive from or deliver to, are damaged by any disaster, accident, catastrophe or other event, our operations could be significantly interrupted. These interruptions might involve a loss of equipment or life, injury, extensive property damage, or maintenance and repair outages. The duration of the interruption will depend on the seriousness of the damages or required repairs. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance to cover these types of interruptions, or in coverage amounts desired, at reasonable rates. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Any event that interrupts the revenues generated by our operations, or which causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We are exposed to the credit and other counterparty risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business. We have various credit terms with virtually all of our customers, and our customers have varying degrees of creditworthiness. Although we evaluate the creditworthiness of each of our customers, we may not always be able to fully anticipate or detect deterioration in their creditworthiness and overall financial condition, which could expose us to an increased risk of nonpayment or other default under our contracts and other arrangements with them. In the event that a material customer or customers default on their payment obligations to us, this could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines or products stored in or distributed through our terminals, or reduced crude oil marketing margins or volumes. Mergers between existing customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing systems instead of ours in those markets where the systems compete. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Rate regulation or market conditions may not allow us to recover the full amount of increases in our costs. Additionally, a successful challenge to our rates could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The primary rate-making methodology of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) is price indexing. We use this methodology in many of our interstate markets. In an order issued in December 2010, the FERC announced that, effective July 1, 2011, the index would equal the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 2.65 percent (previously, the index was equal to the change in the producer price index for finished goods plus 1.3 percent). This index is to be in effect through July 2016. If the changes in the index are not large enough to fully reflect actual increases to our costs, our financial condition could be adversely affected. If the index results in a rate increase that is substantially in excess of the pipeline’s actual cost increases, or it results in a rate decrease that is substantially less than the pipeline’s actual cost decrease, the rates may be protested, and, if successful, result in the lowering of the pipeline’s rates. The FERC’s rate-making methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. 23 Table of Contents Under the Energy Policy Act adopted in 1992, certain interstate pipeline rates were deemed just and reasonable or “grandfathered.” On our FERC-regulated pipelines, most of our revenues are derived from such grandfathered rates. A person challenging a grandfathered rate must, as a threshold matter, establish a substantial change since the date of enactment of the Act, in either the economic circumstances or the nature of the service that formed the basis for the rate. If the FERC were to find a substantial change in circumstances, then the existing rates could be subject to detailed review. There is a risk that some rates could be found to be in excess of levels justified by our cost of service. In such event, the FERC would order us to reduce rates prospectively and could order us to pay reparations to shippers. Reparations could be required for a period of up to two years prior to the date of filing the complaint in the case of rates that are not grandfathered and for the period starting with the filing of the complaint in the case of grandfathered rates. In addition, a state commission could also investigate our intrastate rates or terms and conditions of service on its own initiative or at the urging of a shipper or other interested party. If a state commission found that our rates exceeded levels justified by our cost of service, the state commission could order us to reduce our rates. Potential changes to current rate-making methods and procedures may impact the federal and state regulations under which we will operate in the future. In addition, if the FERC’s petroleum pipeline rate-making methodology changes, the new methodology could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and operational safety that could require substantial expenditures. Our pipelines, gathering systems, and terminal operations are subject to increasingly strict environmental and safety laws and regulations. The transportation and storage of refined products and crude oil result in a risk that refined products, crude oil, and other hydrocarbons may be suddenly or gradually released into the environment, potentially causing substantial expenditures for a response action, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies for natural resource damages, personal injury, or property damage to private parties and significant business interruption. We own or lease a number of properties that have been used to store or distribute refined products and crude oil for many years. Many of these properties also have been previously owned or operated by third parties whose handling, disposal, or release of hydrocarbons and other wastes were not under our control, and for which, in some cases, we have indemnified the previous owners and operators. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and, to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. We may be unable to recover these costs through increased revenues. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the petroleum products that we store and transport. The petroleum products that we store and transport are sold by our customers for consumption into the public market. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to commodities sold into the public market. Changes in product quality specifications could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require the expenditure of significant capital. In addition, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of products transported and stored in our pipeline systems and terminal facilities and could require the construction of additional storage to segregate products with different specifications. We may be unable to recover these costs through increased revenues. In addition, the operations of our butane blending services are reliant upon gasoline vapor pressure specifications. Significant changes in such specifications could reduce butane blending opportunities, which would affect our ability to market our butane blending services licenses and which would ultimately affect our ability to recover the costs incurred to acquire and integrate the butane blending acquisition. 24 Table of Contents Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services. The U.S. Senate has considered legislation to restrict U.S. emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (“GHG”) that may contribute to global warming and climate change. Many states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun implementing legal measures to reduce GHG emissions. The U.S. House of Representatives has previously approved legislation to establish a “cap-and-trade” program, whereby the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major GHG emission sources so they could continue to emit GHGs into the atmosphere. The cost of such allowances would be expected to escalate significantly over time, making the combustion of carbon-based fuels (e.g., refined petroleum products, oil and natural gas) increasingly expensive. Beginning in 2011, EPA regulations required specified large domestic GHG sources to report emissions above a certain threshold occurring after January 1, 2010. Our facilities are not subject to this reporting requirement since our GHG emissions are below the applicable threshold. In addition, the EPA has proposed new regulations, under the federal Clean Air Act, that would require a reduction in GHG emissions from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. It is not possible at this time to predict how pending legislation or new regulations to address GHG emissions would impact our business. However, the adoption and implementation of federal, state, or local laws or regulations limiting GHG emissions in the U.S. could adversely affect the demand for our crude oil or refined products transportation and storage services, and result in increased compliance costs, reduced volumes or additional operating restrictions. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically the nation’s pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. Any terrorist attack at our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, refineries, or terminals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Our risk management policies cannot eliminate all commodity risk, and our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. In addition, any non-compliance with our risk management policies could result in significant financial losses. We follow risk management practices designed to minimize commodity risk, and engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of refined products. These hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices received. In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for such refined products. The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions that are effective economically (whether to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates), these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes. Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point. In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in a hedging transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to commodity prices. Our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. We have adopted risk management policies designed to manage risks associated with our businesses. However, these policies cannot eliminate all price-related risks, and there is also the risk of non-compliance with such policies. We cannot make any assurances that we will detect and prevent all violations of our risk 25 Table of Contents management practices and policies, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Any violations of our risk management practices or policies by our employees or agents could result in significant financial losses. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we lease certain facilities and equipment, which subjects us to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which certain of our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew rights-of-way contracts on acceptable terms, or increased costs to renew such rights could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our rental agreements with landowners, primarily through rental increases and renewals of expired agreements. Whether we have the power of eminent domain for our pipelines varies from state to state, depending upon the type of pipeline (e.g., crude oil, or refined products) and the laws of the particular state. In either case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property and, in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court. Our inability to exercise the power of eminent domain could negatively affect our business if we were to lose the right to use or occupy the property on which our pipelines are located. Additionally, certain facilities and equipment (or parts thereof) used by us are leased from third parties for specific periods. Our inability to renew equipment leases or otherwise maintain the right to utilize such facilities and equipment on acceptable terms, or the increased costs to maintain such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. A portion of our general and administrative services have been outsourced to third-party service providers. Fraudulent activity or misuse of proprietary data involving our outsourcing partners could expose us to additional liability. We utilize both Sunoco and third parties in the processing of our information and data. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud or other forms of deception, could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, lead to reputational damage, increase our compliance costs, or otherwise harm our business. The Partnership continues to work with ETP in determining how the acquisition will impact these general and administrative functions going forward. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business. 26 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR PARTNERSHIP STRUCTURE Our general partner’s discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner may reduce operating surplus by establishing cash reserves to provide funds for our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement provides that our general partner may reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to our unitholders in any one or more of the next four quarters. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for current distribution to our unitholders. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they have limited rights under the partnership agreement to remove our general partner without its consent, which could lower the trading price of the common units. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or its board of directors and will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by ETP, the sole member of our general partner. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a control premium in the trading price. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner has the right to transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of our general partner from transferring its ownership interest in the general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner with its own appointees. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and ETP, as the owner of our general partner which, due to limited fiduciary responsibilities, may permit ETP and its affiliates to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. ETP owns and controls our two percent general partner interest and owns 32.3 percent of our limited partnership interests. Conflicts of interest may arise, from time to time, between ETP and its affiliates (including our general partner), on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates (including ETP) over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts may include, among others, the following situations: • ETP and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires ETP to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, and our general partner may consider the interests of parties other than us, such as ETP, in resolving conflicts of interest; • under our partnership agreement, our general partner’s fiduciary duties are restricted, and our unitholders have only limited remedies available in the event of conduct constituting a potential breach of fiduciary duty by our general partner; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities, and reserves, each of which can 27 Table of Contents affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders and the amount received by our general partner in respect of its incentive distribution rights (“IDRs”); • our general partner determines which costs incurred by ETP and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; and • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us; and our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates. We are a holding company. We conduct our operations through our subsidiaries and depend on cash flow from our subsidiaries to pay distributions to our unitholders and service our debt obligations. We are a holding company. We conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders and to service our debt is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries. In addition, we are dependent on the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments from our subsidiaries to us. Any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments from our subsidiaries to us could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries also will be contingent upon the profitability of our subsidiaries. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries we may not be able to pay distributions to our unitholders or pay interest or principal on our debt securities when due. Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to make cash distributions, even where the purpose or effect of the borrowing benefits the general partner or its affiliates. Our general partner is a wholly-owned subsidiary of ETP, and ETP also owns 32.3 percent of our limited partnership interests and all of our IDRs. Our general partner may cause us to borrow funds from affiliates of ETP or from third parties in order to pay cash distributions to our unitholders and to our general partner, including distributions with respect to our general partner’s IDRs. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price, may not receive a return on the investment, and may incur a tax liability upon the sale. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute our unitholders’ ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of common units or other limited partner interests, including limited partner interests that rank senior to our common units, without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units, or other equity securities of equal or senior rank, will decrease the proportionate ownership interest of existing unitholders and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our common unitholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common units. 28 Table of Contents A unitholder may not have limited liability if a state or federal court finds that we are not in compliance with the applicable statutes or that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. A unitholder could be held liable in some circumstances for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a state or federal court determined that: • we had been conducting business in any state without complying with the applicable limited partnership statute; or • the right or the exercise of the right by the unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to the partnership agreement, or to take other action under the partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of our business. Under applicable state law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, including our debts and environmental liabilities, if any, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT References under this heading to “we,” “us,” and “our” mean Sunoco Logistics Partners Operations L.P. or Sunoco Partners Marketing & Terminals L.P. We may not be able to obtain funding, or obtain funding on acceptable terms, to meet our future capital needs. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been impacted by, among other things, significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated market. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets could be higher and the availability of funds from those markets could be diminished if we seek access to those markets. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If additional funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plan, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Restrictions in our debt agreements may prevent us from engaging in some beneficial transactions or paying distributions to unitholders. As of December 31, 2012, our total outstanding indebtedness was $1.59 billion excluding net unamortized fair value adjustments. Our payment of principal and interest on the debt will reduce the cash available for distribution on our units, as will our obligation to repurchase the senior notes upon the occurrence of specified events involving a change in control of our general partner. In addition, we are prohibited by our credit facilities and the senior notes from making cash distributions during an event of default, or if the payment of a distribution would cause an event of default, under any of our debt agreements. Our leverage and various limitations in our credit facilities and our senior notes may reduce our ability to incur additional debt, engage in some transactions, and capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new debt could have similar or greater restrictions. 29 Table of Contents We could incur a substantial amount of debt in the future, which could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We are permitted to incur additional debt, subject to certain limitations under our revolving credit facilities and, in the case of secured debt, under the indenture governing the notes. If we incur additional debt in the future, our increased leverage could, for example: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt securities or other indebtedness and, if we fail to comply with the requirements of the other indebtedness, could result in an event of default under our debt securities or such other indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow from working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • detract from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors. Our notes and related guarantees are effectively subordinated to any secured debt of ours or the guarantor as well as to any debt of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, and, in the event of our bankruptcy or liquidation, holders of our notes will be paid from any assets remaining after payments to any holders of our secured debt. Our notes and related guarantees are general unsecured senior obligations of us and the guarantor, respectively, and effectively subordinated to any secured debt that we or the guarantor may have to the extent of the value of the assets securing that debt. The indentures permit the guarantor and us to incur secured debt provided certain conditions are met. Our notes are effectively subordinated to the liabilities of any of our subsidiaries unless such subsidiaries guarantee such notes in the future. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or are liquidated, the holders of our secured debt will be entitled to be paid from our assets securing their debt before any payment may be made with respect to our notes. If any of the preceding events occur, we may not have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on our secured debt and our notes. We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash, which may limit cash available to service our debt or to repay debt at maturity. Our partnership agreement requires us to distribute, on a quarterly basis, 100 percent of our available cash to our general partner and Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. within 45 days following the end of every quarter. The Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. partnership agreement requires it to distribute, on a quarterly basis, 100 percent of its available cash to its unitholders of record within 45 days following the end of every quarter. Available cash with respect to any quarter is generally all of our or Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P.’s, as applicable, cash on hand at the end of such quarter, less cash reserves for certain purposes. The sole director of our general partner and the board of directors of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P.’s general partner will determine the amount and timing of such distributions and have broad discretion to establish and make additions to our or Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P.’s, as applicable, reserves or the reserves of our or Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P.’s, as applicable, operating subsidiaries as they determine are necessary or appropriate. As a result, we and Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. do not have the same flexibility as corporations or other entities that do not pay dividends or that have complete flexibility regarding the amounts they will distribute to their equity holders. Although our payment obligations to 30 Table of Contents our partners are subordinate to our payment obligations on our debt, the timing and amount of our quarterly distributions to our partners could significantly reduce the cash available to pay the principal, premium (if any) and interest on our notes. Rising short-term interest rates could increase our financing costs and reduce the amount of cash we generate. As of December 31, 2012, we had $139 million of floating-rate debt outstanding. Rising short-term rates could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Any reduction in our credit ratings or in ETP’s credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We currently maintain an investment grade rating by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Ratings. However, our current ratings may not remain in effect for any given period of time and a rating may be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. If Moody’s, S&P or Fitch Ratings were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs could significantly increase, which would adversely affect our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. Further, due to our relationship with ETP, any down-grading in ETP’s credit ratings could also result in a down-grading in our credit ratings. Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. TAX RISKS TO OUR COMMON UNITHOLDERS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) treats us as a corporation or we become subject to a material amount of entity level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this matter. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the ones we take. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may impact adversely the market for our common units, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax at the corporate tax rate, and likely would pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders generally would be taxed again as corporate distributions. Treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or to otherwise subject us to a material level of entity-level taxation. States are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. If any of these states were to impose a tax on us, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be reduced. The partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to a material level of entity-level taxation for federal, state, or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profit interests during any twelve-month period will result in our termination as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are considered to have been terminated for tax purposes since there were sales or exchanges which, in the aggregate, constituted 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve- 31 Table of Contents month period (a “technical termination”). For purposes of measuring whether the 50 percent threshold was reached, multiple sales of the same interest were counted only once. We believe that the 50 percent threshold was exceeded with ETP’s acquisition of Sunoco’s interests in the Partnership. The technical termination does not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we will be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. The technical termination resulted in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in the unitholder’s taxable income for the year of termination. As a result of the technical termination, we are required to file two tax returns (and unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if the relief discussed below is not available) for the calendar year and the cost of the preparation of these returns will be borne by all unitholders. We are required to make new tax elections after the technical termination, including a new election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code, and the termination has resulted in a deferral of our deductions for depreciation. A termination could also result in penalties if we had been unable to determine that the termination had occurred. Moreover, the technical termination could accelerate the application of, or subject us to, any tax legislation enacted before the technical termination. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and the IRS grants such relief, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the calendar year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. We are in the process of petitioning the IRS for this technical termination relief. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which will be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our limited partner units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their limited partner units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those limited partner units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income the unitholder was allocated for a unit, which decreased their tax basis in that unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if the limited partner unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that limited partner unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. 32 Table of Contents Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our limited partner units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct our business and own assets in approximately 30 states, most of which impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Moreover, any such modification could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception which allows publicly traded partnerships that generate qualifying income to be treated as partnerships (rather than corporations) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, affect or cause us to change our business activities, or affect the tax consequences of an investment in our common units. For example, members of Congress have been considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income and the treatment of certain types of income earned from partnerships. While these specific proposals would not appear to affect our treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 