Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those that are indicated by forward-looking statements. Those factors include, without limitation, those listed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business We may be forced to file for bankruptcy protection if we fail to identify and consummate a strategic transaction in the near future. We currently believe our existing cash resources, coupled with our ability to continue to manage expenses after recent cost reduction measures, will be sufficient to support our current operations and obligations into July 2010. However, our near-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the cash received from sales of existing MOXATAG and KEFLEX products; • our ability to successfully commercialize our products and the costs associated with related marketing, promotional and sales efforts; 17 Table of Contents • the cost of products sold, including royalties due to Eli Lilly on KEFLEX 750 mg net revenues, and the cost of manufacturing activities, including raw material sourcing and regulatory compliance; and • the costs involved in establishing and protecting our patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights. We expect that we will need to enter into a strategic transaction to continue to operate through the second quarter of 2010. We recently engaged Broadpoint to assist us in identifying and evaluating strategic options, including a potential sale of the Company. However, there can be no assurance that this engagement will enable us to identify and implement strategic options. Based on the current credit markets and our financial condition, we may not identify any potential strategic partners. If we are unable to consummate a strategic transaction on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail our operations, effect further reductions in our facilities or personnel, reduce our commercialization and marketing efforts, and we may be forced to seek bankruptcy protection. In addition, if we are unable to meet our payment obligations to third parties as they come due, we may be subject to litigation claims and may seek bankruptcy protection. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs, distract management and may result in unfavorable results that could further adversely impact our financial condition and may impact our ability to continue operations. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our auditors included a going concern explanatory paragraph in their audit opinion. A going concern explanatory paragraph is included when management concludes, and the auditor agrees, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for at least 12 months following the balance sheet date. If we are unable to consummate a strategic transaction in the near future, we may be unable to continue operations as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. We may be required to pay liquidated damages if we do not maintain the effectiveness of our S-3 registration statements. Pursuant to the terms of the registration rights agreements for the private placement transactions we previously completed, we filed with the SEC shelf registration statements on Form S-3 covering resales of common stock. If we do not remain eligible to file a registration statement on Form S-3 at the time of our 10-K each year, our existing resale registration statements on Form S-3 will no longer remain effective. The registration rights agreement in each transaction provides that if we do not maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement, then in addition to any other rights the investor may have, we will be required to pay the investor liquidated damages in cash. The loss of certain senior management could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. We are dependent on the expertise of our senior management team, and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. In particular, the loss of David Becker, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and acting President and Chief Executive Officer, could disrupt our operations. We have employment agreements in place with Mr. Becker and our senior management team. However, any existing employment agreements do not assure the retention of any employee. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees and are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees. We have a history of losses, we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never become profitable. From the date we began operations in January 2000 through December 31, 2009, we have incurred losses of approximately $299.2 million, including losses of approximately $62.3 million and $41.6 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Our losses to date have resulted principally from research and development costs related to the development of our product candidates, the purchase of equipment and establishment of our facilities, and selling, general and administrative costs related to our operations. We expect to incur substantial losses in 2010, and we may incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future thereafter. Among other things, in 2010 we expect to incur significant expenses related to the commercialization of our MOXATAG product. We may also incur losses in connection with the continued sales and marketing of our KEFLEX 750 mg product. In addition, we expect to incur additional expenses related to regulatory compliance activities. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on numerous factors, including success in: • commercializing our MOXATAG (amoxicillin extended-release) Tablets, 775 mg product; • maintaining sales of our KEFLEX products; and • consummating a strategic transaction. We may never become profitable, and our investors may never receive a return on their investment. 18 Table of Contents Our products may never be successfully accepted by the market. We launched our KEFLEX 750 mg product in July 2006 and MOXATAG product in March 2009. While we have invested considerable resources in the launch of these products, to date, sales have not met our expectations. We had previously anticipated that these products would generate revenues in excess of related expenses and would contribute additional cash flow to help fund our other operations. However, these products have not gained wide market acceptance among physicians, patients, pharmacists, healthcare payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of our current products and any pharmaceutical product that we may develop depends on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; • cost-effectiveness; • potential advantages over competitive products and alternative therapies, including generics; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; • pharmacist substitution; and • effectiveness of our marketing and distribution capabilities and the effectiveness of such capabilities of our collaborative partners. Our products compete with a number of products manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and manufacturers of generic drugs. Our products may also compete with new products developed by our competitors. Physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community may not widely accept and use any of our current products or product candidates that we or our collaborative partners develop. To the extent current antibiotics already successfully treat certain infections, physicians may not be inclined to prescribe our drugs for the same indications, especially if less expensive generic alternatives exist. While we believe that physicians make antibiotic prescribing decisions based primarily on efficacy, safety, and compliance, we also believe that, when deciding whether to prescribe a drug or its generic analog, physicians also weigh patient co-pay and patient preferences. In addition, in the United States, most states have enacted legislation requiring or permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a generic equivalent to the prescribed drug. As a result, we believe that price is an important driver of the adoption of our products and product candidates. We believe it is important to carefully manage resistance from payor organizations by pricing our products in such a way as to minimize the incremental payor cost burden relative to generic analogs. If our product pricing does not achieve significant market acceptance, the sales of our products will be significantly impacted. In addition, if our MOXATAG product is not successfully accepted by the market, our growth strategy will be materially adversely affected. Although our MOXATAG product is our only product currently using our PULSYS technology, our longer-term business plan focuses on the development and commercialization of additional PULSYS pharmaceutical products. To the extent the healthcare community does not accept our current PULSYS product based on its therapeutic advantages, it is unlikely that the medical community will accept additional products providing the same therapeutic advantages to other currently available antibiotics. Current unfavorable market conditions may continue to adversely affect our product sales and business. Adverse economic conditions impacting our customers, including high unemployment, low consumer confidence in the economy, high consumer debt levels, increasing numbers of the U.S. population without health insurance and low availability of consumer credit, could impact the ability or willingness of consumers to purchase our products. We expect that our products will be more expensive for consumers than competing products, and in the current economy, consumers may be reluctant to accept higher costs. If market conditions remain unfavorable or deteriorate further, we may experience a further material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. If a competitor produces and commercializes an antibiotic that is superior to our PULSYS antibiotics, the market for our potential products would be reduced or eliminated. In the past, we have devoted a substantial amount of our research efforts and capital to the development of pulsatile antibiotics. Competitors are developing or have developed new drugs that may compete with our pulsatile antibiotics. A number of pharmaceutical companies are also developing new classes of compounds, such as oxazolidinones, that may also compete against our pulsatile antibiotics, including MOXATAG. In addition, other companies are developing technologies to enhance the efficacy of antibiotics by adding new chemical entities that inhibit bacterial metabolic function. If a competitor produces and commercializes an antibiotic or method of delivery of antibiotics that provides superior safety, effectiveness or other significant advantages over our pulsatile antibiotics, the value of our pulsatile drugs would be substantially reduced. As a result, we would need to conduct substantial new research and development activities to establish new product targets, which would be costly and time consuming. In the event we are unable to establish new product targets, we will be unable to generate additional sources of revenue and implement our growth strategy. Any inability to protect our intellectual property could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate our competitive advantage. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these foreign countries. 19 Table of Contents The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our patent positions, involve complex legal and factual questions, and validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that we cover our proprietary technologies with valid and enforceable patents or we effectively maintain such proprietary technologies as trade secrets. We apply for patents covering both our technologies and product candidates as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or products in a timely fashion, or at all, and the applications we do file may be challenged and may not result in issued patents. Further, any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Others may also independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. In addition, if challenged, our patents may be declared invalid. We also rely upon trade secrets protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. A significant part of our business strategy is to position MOXATAG and our KEFLEX line of products as preferred brands for relief of tonsillitis and/or pharyngitis secondary to Streptococcus pyogenes and skin and skin structure infections, respectively. We believe that familiarity with our brands is an important competitive advantage and that the growth and sustainability of our market share for our product lines will depend to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our related trademarks, trade names and copyrights. We intend to use the trademarks and trade names on our products to convey that the products we sell are “brand name” products, and we believe consumers and physicians will ascribe value to our brands. We own the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and sale of our products, which prevents our competitors or new entrants to the market from using our brand names. Therefore, we view trademark and trade name protection as critical to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the United States, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. If we were to lose the exclusive right to use the MOXATAG or KEFLEX brand names or other brand names we establish or acquire in the future, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We could also incur substantial costs to prosecute legal actions relating to the use of our trademarks and trade names, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, other parties may infringe on our property rights in our trademarks and trade names, which may dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace. Our competitors may also introduce brands that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, which could adversely affect the value that our customers associate with our brands and thereby negatively impact our sales. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect those rights through litigation or otherwise. Claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others may adversely affect our reputation and financial condition. Our patents, prior art and infringement investigations were primarily conducted by our senior management and other employees. Although our patent counsel has consulted with management in connection with management’s intellectual property investigations, our patent counsel has not undertaken an extensive independent analysis to determine whether our PULSYS technology infringes upon any issued patents or whether our issued patents or patent applications covering pulsatile dosing could be invalidated or rendered unenforceable for any reason. We are aware of one issued patent owned by a third party that covers certain aspects of delivering drugs by the use of two delayed-release pulses. However, we believe that we will be able to manufacture and market formulations of our pulsatile products without infringing any valid claims under this patent. We cannot assure you that a claim will not be asserted by such patent holder, or any other holder of an issued patent, that any of our products infringe their patents or that our patents are invalid or unenforceable or that, in the event of litigation, any claims would be resolved in our favor. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not valid, may result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management and harm our reputation. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively because of their substantially greater financial resources. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could result in substantial damages and force us to do one or more of the following, which would adversely affect our results of operations and growth: • cease selling, incorporating or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, including MOXATAG; • obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign our products, which would be costly and time-consuming and may not be possible. Third parties may also assert claims against our trademark and trade name rights, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these claims. In such event, we may lose our ability to use the brand names that are the subject of these claims, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales. We could also incur substantial costs to defend even those claims that are not ultimately successful, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We have not sought patent protection for certain aspects of the technology used in our PULSYS product candidates, and if we are not able to protect the confidentiality of such information, others may use our technology to compete against us. We have not filed for patent protection with respect to all of our specific formulations, materials (including inactive ingredients) or manufacturing process approaches that are incorporated in our PULSYS product candidates, and we may not seek such patent coverage in the future. In producing our PULSYS products, we expect to use general formulation techniques used in the industry that would be modified by us and that would, therefore, include know-how and trade secrets that we have developed. We cannot be certain that a patent would issue to cover such intellectual property, and currently, we intend to keep such techniques and know-how as our trade secrets. In the event a competitor is able to develop and patent technology substantially similar to ours, we may be blocked from using certain of our formulations or manufacturing process approaches, which could limit our ability to develop and commercialize products. We have a post-marketing commitment to proceed with a Phase II clinical trial for our pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate, which we may never be able to conduct. As part of the FDA’s approval of MOXATAG, we committed to submitting a final clinical trial report to the FDA for a Phase III clinical study by March 2013 for our pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate. However, all of our product development plans are currently on hold pending successful commercialization of MOXATAG and sufficient financial resources. Should we proceed with our product development plans, we intend to conduct a Phase II clinical trial, and if the results of the Phase II clinical trial support proceeding into a Phase III clinical trial, we would then plan to conduct a Phase III clinical trial. If we lack adequate funds to proceed with a Phase II clinical trial for our pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate, we will be unable to meet our commitment and will have to request that the FDA extend our current deferral until such resources are available. In addition, if the results of the Phase II clinical study do not support proceeding into a Phase III clinical trial, we will have to request a waiver for the further assessment of the safety and effectiveness of our pediatric PULSYS sprinkle product candidate. There can be no assurance that the FDA will grant our deferral or waiver requests. If we fail to obtain a deferral or waiver from the FDA regarding this post-marketing commitment, it could have a material adverse affect on our business and growth strategy. Our ability to commercialize our products is dependent upon the success of our own sales and marketing capabilities and infrastructure. In order to commercialize our MOXATAG product, beginning in late 2008, we expanded our commercial capabilities with the addition of sales and marketing personnel, using a significant portion of the proceeds raised in our September 2008 private placement offering. However, to more aggressively preserve our financial resources, we reduced our sales force and managers in September and December 2009 by 25% and 33%, respectively. Effective March 15, 2010, we eliminated our field sales force to preserve our cash resources as we explore strategic options. In February 2010, we partnered with DoctorDirectory to promote MOXATAG through DoctorDirectory’s virtual marketing solution, IncreaseRx®. We now rely entirely on IncreaseRx® to market MOXATAG. Although we have previously outsourced our sales and marketing for the promotion of KEFLEX 750 mg capsules, we have never outsourced our MOXATAG marketing efforts. IncreaseRx® and virtual marketing is an unproven marketing strategy for us, and we can offer no assurance that it will allow us to successfully promote MOXATAG. We also plan to market KEFLEX in the United States through a third party marketer. However, we have not yet identified or initiated this marketing effort, and any third party marketing efforts may not be successful in maintaining or growing our sales of KEFLEX. Further, because we no longer have an internal sales force, in the event any of our other products or product candidates are approved by the FDA, we may again have to expand our sales and marketing personnel, which could divert the attention of management and have a material adverse affect on other areas of our business. These efforts may not be successful and cause a delay in product sales and increased costs. We rely upon a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors, which could impact our ability to sell our products. We primarily rely on specialty pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers to deliver our products to end users, including physicians, hospitals, and pharmacies. A limited number of major wholesalers and retailers of pharmaceuticals account for a majority of our sales. Cardinal Health, McKesson, and CVS accounted for 36.9%, 33.2% and 12.7% of our gross revenues from sales of KEFLEX and MOXATAG in the year ended December 31, 2009. Cardinal Health, McKesson, and AmerisourceBergen accounted for 50.3%, 33.6% and 10.6% of our gross revenues from sales of KEFLEX in the year ended December 31, 2008. There can be no assurance that our distributors and wholesalers will adequately meet the market demand for our products. Given the high concentration of sales to certain pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers, we could experience a significant loss if one of our top customers were to cease buying our product(s), declare bankruptcy or otherwise become unable to pay its obligations to us. We are dependent on our contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide us with active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products, and any failure of such third parties to meet our product demand could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We do not maintain our own commercial scale manufacturing facilities. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks, including: • the possibility that third parties may not comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations, other regulatory requirements or quality assurance; 21 Table of Contents • the possible breach of manufacturing agreements by third parties due to factors beyond our control; and • the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of an agreement by a third-party manufacturer, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. In addition, any damage to, or disruption at, our manufacturers’ facilities could halt production of our products, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. The manufacturer of our KEFLEX products ceased its manufacture of KEFLEX in February 2009. Although we have an inventory of KEFLEX, we cannot guarantee that the amount of product currently in inventory will meet our near-term demand for KEFLEX. We are actively pursuing a third-party manufacturer to produce our immediate-release KEFLEX products and to perform development work on our KEFLEX pulsatile development product, should we proceed with our development activities. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to select a site and obtain approval from the FDA for a third-party manufacturing and development site. If we are unable to obtain approval, or if such approval is delayed, it could result in a significant disruption to our business, which may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. MOXATAG is manufactured for us pursuant to a contract manufacturing arrangement by Stada Production Ireland Limited, or SPI, previously known as the manufacturing division of Clonmel Healthcare Limited, a subsidiary of STADA Arzneimittel AG. Samples of our MOXATAG product are packaged by ALMAC pursuant to a three-year packaging agreement. Although we believe that we could obtain our finished MOXATAG product and samples from several suppliers, our applications for regulatory approval currently only identify SPI and ALMAC as our authorized sources for MOXATAG product and samples, respectively. In the event that a third party supplier is unable to supply product to us in sufficient quantities on a timely basis or at a commercially reasonable price or if a third party supplier loses its regulatory status as an acceptable source, we would need to locate another source. A limited number of manufacturers operating under cGMP regulations are capable of manufacturing amoxicillin and cephalexin to our specifications. As a result, we may not be able to identify or qualify new manufacturers in a timely manner or obtain a sufficient allocation of their capacity to meet our requirements. In addition, a change to a supplier not previously approved or an alteration in the procedures or product provided to us by an approved supplier may involve additional manufacturing expense and delay production and may require formal approval by the FDA before the product could be sold. Any resulting delays in meeting demand for our products could result in significant disruption to our business and negatively impact our sales and reputation. All of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the United States, which exposes us to additional business risks that may adversely impact our financial results. SPI and ALMAC manufacture and package MOXATAG product and samples in their respective facilities in Ireland. Our costs associated with SPI are denominated in euros, or EUR, and those of ALMAC are in British pound sterling, or GBP. We are therefore exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, or USD, and the EUR and GBP, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We are currently in the process of selecting a third party manufacturer for our KEFLEX products. We believe this manufacturer will also be located overseas, and the costs for the manufacturer will be denominated in a foreign currency, which exposes us to additional currency risk. In addition, our third party manufacturers’ operations are subject to separate foreign laws and regulations, which may be modified in the future, and our manufacturing operations may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. Our PULSYS technology is based on a finding that could ultimately prove to be incorrect or could have limited applicability. Our PULSYS product candidates are based on our in vitro finding that bacteria exposed to antibiotics in front-loaded, rapid sequential bursts are eliminated more efficiently and effectively than those exposed to presently available treatment regimens. Ultimately, our finding may be incorrect, in which case our pulsatile dosage form would not differ substantially from competing dosage forms and may be inferior to them. If these products are substantially identical or inferior to products already available, the market for our pulsatile drugs will be reduced or eliminated, and we would be unable to capitalize on our PULSYS technology. Even if pulsatile dosing is more efficient than traditional dosing, we may be unable to apply this finding in vivo successfully to a substantial number of products in the anti-infective market. Our preliminary studies indicate that pulsatile dosing may not provide superior performance for all types of antibiotics. If these preliminary findings are correct, certain pulsatile product candidates we may develop would not be more effective than the products of our competitors, which may decrease or eliminate market acceptance of our products. Additionally, we have not conducted any studies with anti-viral or anti-fungal medications. If we cannot apply our technology to a wide variety of antibiotics or other anti-infectives, our potential market will be substantially reduced, which would have an adverse effect on our growth strategy. 22 Table of Contents If clinical trials for our products are unsuccessful or delayed, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. Our growth strategy is focused on the development of additional drug products. The development of drugs is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, and FDA approval is required before any new drug can legally be marketed in the United States. The FDA requires significant research and development for product candidates, which generally involves successful completion of preclinical laboratory testing, submission and approval of an investigational new drug application, successful completion of human clinical trials, and submission and approval of a NDA. Preclinical testing and clinical trials must demonstrate that product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans before the FDA will grant approval for their commercial sale. In addition, clinical trials must also prove any claims that a product candidate is comparable or superior to existing products. For drug products containing active ingredients in fixed combinations that the FDA has not previously approved, clinical studies are also necessary to establish the contribution of each active component to the effectiveness of the combination in an appropriately identified patient population. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials for our products may be delayed by many factors, including: • lack of efficacy during the clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues; • slower than expected rate of patient recruitment; or • government or regulatory delays. Even if we receive promising results in preclinical and initial clinical trials for a product candidate, the drug may subsequently prove unfeasible or impossible to generate sufficient safety and efficacy data necessary for regulatory approval. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials are often not predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. For example, in the event we incorrectly identify a dosage as appropriate for human clinical trials, any results we receive from such trials may not properly reflect the optimal efficacy or safety of our products and may not support approval in the absence of additional clinical trials using a different dosage. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are also susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may encounter regulatory delays or rejections as a result of many factors, including results that do not support our claims, perceived defects in the design of clinical trials and changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Our growth prospects may be materially adversely affected by any delays in or termination of any clinical trials we may conduct in the future or a determination by the FDA that the results of such trials are inadequate to justify regulatory approval. We submitted a SPA to the FDA in June 2009 to obtain the FDA’s agreement on the design of our Phase III clinical trial for our KEFLEX PULSYS product candidate. The FDA responded to our SPA on July 30, 2009, stating that it disagreed with the non-inferiority design and planned analysis of the study as outlined in the SPA. Accordingly, we have delayed the development of our KEFLEX PULSYS product candidate. Any future development of KEFLEX PULSYS is contingent upon the successful commercialization of our MOXATAG product, adequate financial resources and the FDA’s agreement with a revised study design. The development of all of our other product candidates is also currently delayed pending the successful commercialization of MOXATAG and adequate financial resources to continue our development efforts. If we are not able to successfully develop our product candidates, we may be unable to meet our anticipated development and commercialization timelines, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. If we proceed with our long-term development plan, clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed due to our dependence on third parties for the conduct of such trials. We have limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials. If we pursue our growth strategy, we expect to rely on third parties, including contract research organizations and outside consultants, to assist us in managing and monitoring clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties may result in delays in the completion of, or the failure to complete, our clinical trials if these third parties fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. Our success may depend on our ability to successfully attract and retain collaborative partners. For certain product candidates, we may enter into collaborative arrangements with third parties. Collaborations may be necessary for us to: • fund our research and development activities; • fund manufacturing by third parties; • seek and obtain regulatory approvals; and • successfully commercialize our product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into collaborative agreements with partners on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any future agreement may expose us to risks that our partner might fail to fulfill its obligations and delay commercialization of our products. We also could become involved in disputes with collaborative partners, which could lead to delays in or terminations of our development and commercialization programs, as well as time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. Our inability to enter into additional collaborative arrangements with other partners, or our failure to maintain such arrangements, may limit the number of product candidates we can develop and ultimately decrease our sources of future revenues. 23 Table of Contents If we cannot enter into new licensing arrangements or otherwise gain access to products, our ability to develop a diverse product portfolio could be limited. A component of our longer-term business strategy may involve in-licensing or acquiring drug compounds developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or academic research laboratories that may be marketed and developed or improved upon using our novel technologies. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of these product candidates and approved products, and competition for promising compounds can be intense. At this time, we have not entered into any arrangement to license or acquire any drugs from other companies, other than Eli Lilly. If we are not able to identify licensing or acquisition opportunities or enter into arrangements on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop a diverse portfolio of products as part of our growth strategy. Any product candidate that we acquire may require significant additional research and development efforts prior to seeking regulatory approval and commercial sale, including extensive preclinical and clinical testing. In addition to any development and regulatory expenses, as a result of acquiring products or entering into other significant transactions, we would likely experience significant charges to earnings for acquisitions and related expenses, including transaction costs, closure costs or acquired in-process product development charges. The acquisition of rights to additional products would also likely require us to make significant up-front cash payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity and may require us to raise additional capital and secure external sources of financing. We may seek funding for product acquisitions through equity or debt offerings, through royalty-based financings or by a combination of these methods. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise the funds necessary to complete any product acquisitions on acceptable terms or at all. If we raise funds, it could substantially dilute shareholders, or if we use existing resources, it could adversely affect our liquidity and increase the amount of capital we would need. Charges that we may incur in connection with acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe and effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any approved products that we develop or acquire will be manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized, widely accepted in the marketplace, or that we will be able to recover our significant expenditures in connection with the development or acquisition of such products. Proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition is a lengthy and complex process and could substantially divert the attention of management. If we are not able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not be able to realize the intended benefits of the acquisition. In addition, if we acquire product candidates from third parties, we may be dependent on third parties to supply such products to us for sale. Risks Related to Our Industry We could be forced to pay substantial damage awards if product liability claims that may be brought against us are successful. The use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, may expose us to liability claims and financial losses resulting from the use or sale of our products. We have limited product liability insurance coverage for the clinical trials we previously conducted. However, such insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims made against us. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against losses from any future clinical trials we may conduct. Generic pricing plans, such as those implemented by Wal-Mart, CVS, Rite Aid and Walgreens, may affect the market for our products. In September 2006, Wal-Mart began offering certain generic drugs at $4 per prescription, and various other retailers including CVS, Rite Aid and Walgreens currently offer generic drugs at similar prices or for free. Amoxicillin and cephalexin are on the list of drugs that retailers provide at $10 per prescription or less. Wal-Mart, CVS, Rite Aid, Walgreens and many other retailers have significant market presence, and their decision to make generic analogs of our products available at substantially lower prices may have a material adverse effect on the market for our products. Our products are subject to Medicaid reimbursement and price reporting, and further limitations on or reductions in reimbursement would reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The cost of pharmaceutical products continues to be a subject of investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies and private organizations in the United States and other countries. Federal and state governments continue to pursue efforts to reduce spending in Medicaid programs, including imposing restrictions on the amounts agencies will reimburse for certain products. Federal law also requires pharmaceutical companies to pay prescribed rebates on drugs to state Medicaid agencies to enable such products to be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid programs. We also must give discounts or rebates on purchases or reimbursements of our products by certain other federal and state agencies and programs. Our ability to earn sufficient returns on our products will depend, in part, on limitations on coverage by and reimbursements from third-party payors, such as health insurers, governmental healthcare administration authorities and other organizations and on the amount of rebates payable under Medicaid programs. 24 Table of Contents Our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and noncompliance could harm our business. The repackaging, marketing, sale, and purchase of medications are extensively regulated by federal and state governments. As a pharmaceutical manufacturer, our operations are subject to complex and evolving federal and state laws and regulations enforced by federal and state governmental agencies, including, but not limited to, the federal False Claims Act, federal and state anti-kickback laws, the PDMA, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and various other state laws and regulations. If we fail to, or are accused of failing to, comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties that may include exclusion from the Medicare or Medicaid programs, fines, requirements to change our practices, and civil or criminal penalties, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we believe we are operating our business in substantial compliance with existing legal requirements material to the operation of our business, there are significant uncertainties involving the application of many of these legal requirements to our business. Changes in interpretation or enforcement policies could subject our current practices to allegation of impropriety or illegality. The applicable regulatory framework is complex and evolving, and the laws are very broad in scope. Many of the laws remain open to interpretation and have not been addressed by substantive court decisions to clarify their meaning. There has also been a great deal of activity in Congress regarding health reform, including the consideration of such proposals as increased rebates for pharmaceutical manufacturers, government negotiation of prices for Medicare Part D drugs, and allowance of prescription drug reimportation. We are unable to predict the likelihood that any health reform legislation or similar legislation will be enacted into law or the effects that any such legislation would have on our business. We are also unable to predict what additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future relating to our business or the healthcare industry in general, or what effect any such legislation or regulation might have on us. Further, we cannot provide any assurance that federal or state governments will not impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could increase our cost of compliance with such laws or reduce our ability to remain profitable. Federal and state investigations and enforcement actions continue to focus on the healthcare industry, scrutinizing a wide range of items such as product discount arrangements, clinical drug research trials, pharmaceutical marketing programs, and gifts for patients. It is difficult to predict how any of the laws implicated in these investigations and enforcement actions may be interpreted to apply to our business. Any future investigation may cause publicity, regardless of the eventual result of the investigation, or its underlying merits, which could cause harm our business. If we do not compete successfully in the development and commercialization of products and keep pace with rapid technological change, we will be unable to capture and sustain a meaningful market position. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. While we are not aware of any company using rapid bursts of antibiotics as a treatment method, there are numerous companies actively engaged in the research and development of anti-infectives. Our main competitors are: • Large pharmaceutical companies, such as Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck, Johnson & Johnson, Roche, Novartis, sanofi-aventis, Abbott Laboratories, AstraZeneca, and Bayer, which may develop new drug compounds that render our drugs obsolete or noncompetitive. • Smaller pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and specialty pharmaceutical companies engaged in focused research and development of anti-infective drugs, such as Trimeris, Vertex, Gilead Sciences, Cubist, Basilea, InterMune, King, Advanced Life Sciences, and others. • Drug delivery companies, such as Johnson & Johnson’s Alza division, Biovail, DepoMed, Flamel Technologies, and SkyePharma, which may develop a dosing regimen that is more effective than pulsatile dosing. • Generic drug companies, such as Teva, Ranbaxy, Sandoz (a subsidiary of Novartis) and Stada, which produce low-cost versions of antibiotics that may contain the same APIs as our PULSYS product candidates. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in: • developing products; • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • obtaining approvals of products from the FDA and other regulatory agencies; and • manufacturing and marketing products. Developments by others may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses of products or technology. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than ours, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and growth prospects. If we experience delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, or are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals, we may be unable to commercialize our products. Our products and product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic government regulation, as described more fully under Item 1. Business — Government Regulation in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. If we or our contract manufacturers or repackagers fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or our ability to operate our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs, discontinuation of product sales, and disapproval of or delays in obtaining market approval for product candidates and may adversely affect our revenue and the marketing of our products. Although none of our PULSYS product candidates have been approved for sale in any foreign market, if our products are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. The regulatory review and approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance, may require risk evaluation and mitigation strategies and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. The actual time required for satisfaction of FDA pre-market approval requirements may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or the medical condition it is intended to treat. Government regulation may delay or prevent marketing of potential products for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon a manufacturer’s activities. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • adversely affect the commercialization of any drugs that we or our collaborative partners develop; • impose costly procedures on us or our collaborative partners; • diminish any competitive advantages that we or our collaborative partners may attain; and • adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. Success in early stage clinical trials does not assure success in later stage clinical trials. Data obtained from clinical activities is not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of a NDA to the FDA, and the FDA approves even fewer for commercialization. 25 Table of Contents Any required approvals, once obtained, may also be withdrawn. Further, if we fail to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we may encounter difficulties, including: • delays in clinical trials or commercialization; • product recalls or seizures; • suspension of production and/or distribution; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and • fines, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions. We may need to successfully address a number of challenges in order to complete the development of our future products. For example, to obtain marketing approval for a new product candidate, we and our third-party manufacturers will be required to demonstrate that we can consistently produce the product in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis. This requirement is referred to as process validation. If we are unable to satisfy this process validation requirement for a future product candidate, through our third-party manufacturers or otherwise, we will not receive approval to market such product. Furthermore, our future products may not be effective or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may preclude us from obtaining regulatory approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Even if we do obtain regulatory approval, such regulatory approvals may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product, which may limit the market for such product. We may rely on future collaborative partners to file investigational new drug applications and generally direct the regulatory approval process for some of our products. These collaborative partners may not diligently conduct clinical testing or obtain necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any product candidates. If we fail to obtain required governmental approvals, we or our collaborative partners will experience delays in, or be precluded from, marketing products developed through our research. We and our contract manufacturers are also required to comply with applicable FDA cGMP regulations. The cGMP regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the FDA, and these facilities must be approved before we can use them in commercial manufacturing of our products. We or our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with the applicable cGMP requirements and other FDA regulatory requirements. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply, we could be subject to fines or other sanctions, or be precluded from marketing our products. Furthermore, our failure to comply with the FDA, U.S. Federal Trade Commission or state regulations relating to our product claims and advertising may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect our marketing strategy and product sales. The manufacture and storage of pharmaceutical and chemical products is subject to environmental regulation and risk. Because of the chemical ingredients of pharmaceutical products and the nature of the manufacturing process, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation and the risk of incurring liability for damages or the costs of remedying environmental problems. We use a number of chemicals and drug substances that can be toxic. These chemicals include acids, solvents and other reagents used in the normal course of our chemical and pharmaceutical analysis, and other materials, such as polymers, inactive ingredients and drug substances, used in the research, development and manufacture of drug products. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations to use, discharge or dispose of hazardous materials appropriately or otherwise to comply with the conditions attached to our operating licenses, the licenses could be revoked and we could be subject to criminal sanctions and substantial liability or could be required to suspend or modify our operations. Environmental laws and regulations can require us to undertake or pay for investigation, clean-up and monitoring of environmental contamination identified at properties that we currently own or operate, or that we formerly owned or operated. Further, these laws and regulations can require us to undertake or pay for such actions at offsite locations where we may have sent hazardous substances for disposal. These obligations are often imposed without regard to fault. In the event we are found to have violated environmental laws or regulations, our reputation will be harmed and we may incur substantial monetary liabilities. We currently have insurance coverage that we believe is adequate to cover our present activities. However, this insurance may not be available or adequate to cover any losses arising from contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous substances. Our current and future products may be associated with certain transient side effects. If we or others identify additional, more severe side effects associated with our current or future products, we may be required to withdraw our products from the market, perform lengthy additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products, any of which could have an adverse impact on revenues. Our current cephalexin-based products may be associated with mild and transient side effects, including diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastritis, and abdominal pain. Our amoxicillin-based product may be associated with vulvovaginal myotic infection, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and headaches. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals; • we may be required to reformulate our products, conduct additional clinical trials, change the labeling of our products, or implement changes to obtain new approvals of manufacturers’ facilities; 26 Table of Contents • we may recall the affected products from the market; • we may experience a significant drop in sales of the affected products; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; • we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits; and • we may be required to withdraw our products from the market and not be able to re-introduce them into the market. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing or marketing these products, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Market acceptance of our products will be limited if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. The commercial success of our products and product candidates depends in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, including government healthcare administrators, managed care providers and private health insurers. We cannot assure you that third-party payors will consider our products cost-effective or provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use. Furthermore, the coverage status of our products with these payors is subject to change at any time. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, effective or cost-effective than existing products. Therefore, third-party payors may not approve our products for reimbursement. If third-party payors do not approve our products for reimbursement or fail to reimburse them adequately, sales will suffer as some physicians or their patients will opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, reimbursement levels may not be sufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Moreover, the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs has placed increased pressure on drug prices and overall healthcare expenditures. Managed care organizations and government and other private third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both the coverage and the level of reimbursement for drug products. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may reduce reimbursement for our products. Consequently, the reimbursement status of our products is highly uncertain, and we cannot assure that third-party coverage will be available or that available third-party coverage or payment will be adequate. Other Risks We are currently not in compliance with NASDAQ rules for continued listing of our Common Stock, which could result in our delisting. Our common stock is currently not in compliance with NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, rules for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market and is at risk of being delisted. On December 1, 2009, we received a letter from NASDAQ notifying us that, for the prior 30 consecutive business days, our common stock had not maintained a minimum $1.00 per share bid price as required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). In accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1), we were provided 180 days, or until June 1, 2010, to regain compliance. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must remain at or above $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance, NASDAQ will provide us with written notification that our common stock will be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. At that time, the Company has the right to appeal NASDAQ’s determination to a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reestablish or maintain compliance with listing criteria on NASDAQ or that an appeal, if taken, would be successful. If our stock is delisted, it may substantially decrease the liquidity of, and could negatively impact the price of, our common stock. We can offer no assurance that, if we are delisted, our stockholders will be able to liquidate their investment in us without considerable delay, if at all. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. We have a history of significant sales of our stock. In September 2008, we issued and sold 30,303,030 shares of common stock and a warrant to acquire up to 12,121,212 additional shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.90 per share to EGI-MBRK, L.L.C. In January 2008, we completed a private placement of 8,750,001 shares of common stock and warrants to acquire up to 3,500,001 shares of common stock at a price of $3.00 per unit. In April 2007, we completed a private placement of 10,155,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 7,616,250 shares of common stock, at a price of $2.36375 per unit. In December 2006, we completed a private placement of 6,000,000 shares of common stock. In April 2005, we completed a private placement of 6,846,735 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase a total of 2,396,357 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $4.78 per share. 27 Table of Contents We have registered approximately 19,317,679 and 4,500,000 shares of common stock that are authorized for issuance under our Stock Incentive Plan and New Hire Stock Incentive Plan, respectively. As of March 1, 2010, options to purchase 13,843,085 shares were outstanding, 6,670,236 of which are vested and exercisable. Because they are registered, the shares authorized for issuance under our stock plans can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. A small number of stockholders have significant influence over our business, and the interests of those stockholders may not be consistent with the interests of our other stockholders. EGI currently beneficially owns an aggregate of 45.04% of our outstanding common stock (assuming the exercise of its outstanding warrant to acquire 12,121,212 shares of our common stock). William C. Pate, a member of our board, is the Chief Investment Officer and a Managing Director of Equity Group Investments, L.L.C., an affiliate of EGI, and Mark Sotir, a member of our board, is also a Managing Director of Equity Group Investments, L.L.C. Neither Mr. Pate nor Mr. Sotir share beneficial ownership with EGI of any shares of our common stock. Affiliates of Healthcare Ventures currently beneficially own an aggregate of 14.93% of our outstanding common stock (assuming the exercise of its outstanding warrants to acquire 1,290,578 shares of our common stock). James H. Cavanaugh and Harold R. Werner, members of our board of directors, are general partners of HealthCare Ventures. Affiliates of Rho Ventures currently beneficially own an aggregate of 7.80% of our outstanding common stock (assuming the exercise of its outstanding warrant to acquire 1,955,276 shares of our common stock) . Martin A. Vogelbaum, a member of our board, is a member of the general partner of Rho Ventures. Accordingly, these stockholders are able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, as well as over the day-to-day management of our business. These stockholders may direct our affairs in a manner that is not consistent with the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination or a sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Our certificate of incorporation and provisions of Delaware law could discourage a takeover you may consider favorable or could cause current management to become entrenched and difficult to replace. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, or making a merger or acquisition less desirable to a potential acquirer, even when the stockholders may consider the acquisition or merger favorable. Under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, we are authorized to issue 25.0 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock, and to determine the price, privileges, and other terms of these shares. The issuance of any preferred stock with superior rights to our common stock could reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights we may grant to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict an ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party, preserving control by present owners and management and preventing you from realizing a premium on your shares. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years, unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. These provisions could affect our stock price adversely. The price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile. Prior to our October 2003 initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock. The initial public offering price of our common stock was $10.00 per share. Since our initial public offering, the price of our common stock has been as high as $10.30 and as low as $0.305 per share. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 