Item 1A. Risk Factors. MGE Energy and its subsidiaries, including MGE, operate in a market environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond their control. The following risk factors may adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and market price for their publicly traded securities. While MGE Energy and MGE believe they have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting their business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect their performance or financial condition in the future. Regulatory Risk We are subject to extensive government regulation in our business, which affects our costs and responsiveness to changing events and circumstances. Our business is subject to regulation at the State and Federal levels. We are subject to regulation as a holding company by the PSCW. MGE is regulated by the PSCW as to its rates, terms and conditions of service; various business practices and transactions; financing; and transactions between it and its affiliates, including MGE Energy. MGE is also subject to regulation by the FERC, which regulates certain aspects of its business. The regulations adopted by the State and Federal agencies affect the manner in which we do business, our ability to undertake specified actions since pre-approval or authorization may be required, the costs of operations, and the level of rates charged to recover such costs. Our ability to attract capital is also dependent in part, upon our ability to obtain a fair return from the PSCW. 16 We face risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs. MGE burns natural gas in several of its peak electric generation facilities, and in many cases, the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. Under the electric fuel rules, MGE would be required to make a refund to customers if the fuel rules costs fall outside the lower end of the range and would be allowed to request a surcharge if the fuel rules costs exceeded the upper end of the range. The range is defined by the PSCW and is currently plus or minus 2%. MGE assumes the risks and benefits of variances that are within the bandwidth. We are subject to changing environmental laws and regulations that may affect our costs and business plans. Our subsidiaries are subject to environmental laws and regulations that affect the manner in which they conduct business, including capital expenditures, operating costs and potential liabilities. Changes and developments in these laws and regulations may alter or limit our business plans, make them more costly, or expose us to liabilities for past or current operations. Numerous environmental laws and regulations govern many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, threatened and endangered species and hazardous waste. These evolving regulations can introduce uncertainty projects, and can introduce costly delays if previous decisions need to be revisited as a result of judicial mandate or regulatory change. These regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental permits and approvals, and can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. These effects can be seen not only with respect to new construction, such as our participation in the Elm Road generating units, but could also require the installation of additional control equipment or other compliance measures such as altered operating conditions at existing facilities such as Columbia or Blount. In addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean-up at current or future sites identified as containing hazardous materials. It is difficult to predict the costs potentially associated with a site clean-up due to the potential joint and several liability for all potentially responsible parties, the nature of the clean-up required and the availability of recovery from other potentially responsible parties. Additionally, if adopted, legislative and regulatory GHG initiatives could have the potential for a significant financial impact on MGE, including the cost to install new emission control equipment, purchase allowances, or do fuel switching. Operating Risk We are affected by weather, which affects customer demand and can affect the operation of our facilities. The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather. Very warm and very cold temperatures, especially for prolonged periods, can dramatically increase the demand for electricity for cooling and heating, respectively, as opposed to the softening effect of more moderate temperatures. Our electric revenues are sensitive to the summer cooling season and, to a lesser extent, the winter heating season. Similarly, very cold temperatures can dramatically increase the demand for gas for heating. A significant portion of our gas system demand is driven by heating. Extreme summer conditions or storms may stress electric transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance costs and limiting the ability to meet peak customer demand. We are affected by economic activity within our service area. Higher levels of development and business activity generally increase the numbers of customers and their use of electricity and gas. Likewise, periods of recessionary economic conditions generally adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to manage our purchased power costs is influenced by a number of uncontrollable factors. We are exposed to additional purchased power costs to the extent that our power needs cannot be fully covered by the supplies available from our existing facilities and contractual arrangements. Those needs, and our costs, could be affected by: 路 Increased demand due to, for example, weather, customer growth, or customer obligations, 路 The inability to transmit our contracted power from its generation source to our customers due to transmission line constraints, outages, or equipment failures, 17 路 Reductions in the availability of power from our owned or contracted generation sources due to equipment failures, shortages of fuel or environmental limitations on operations, and 路 Failure to perform on the part of any party from which we purchase capacity or energy. An unexpected change in demand or the availability of generation or transmission facilities can expose us to increased costs of sourcing electricity in the short-term market where pricing may be more volatile. Our financial performance depends on the equipment and facilities in our distribution system being operational. Weather conditions, accidents, catastrophic events, and failures of equipment or facilities can disrupt or limit our ability to deliver electricity and gas. Efforts to repair or replace equipment and facilities may not be successful, or we may be unable to make the necessary improvements to our distribution system, causing service interruptions. The resulting interruption of services could result in lost revenues and additional costs. We face construction risk in connection with the completion of generating units. We have assumed risks under the agreements related to our ownership interest in two 615 MW coal-fired generating units in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. If the units' final construction costs exceed the fixed costs allowed in the PSCW order, this excess will not be recoverable from MGE or its customers unless specifically allowed by the PSCW. Any Oak Creek project costs above the authorized amount will be subject to a prudence determination made by the PSCW. Financial Risk We are exposed to commodity price risk relating to our purchases of natural gas, electricity, coal and oil. We face commodity price risk exposure with respect to our purchases of natural gas, electricity, coal and oil, SO2 allowances and risk through our use of derivatives, such as futures, forwards and swaps, to manage that commodity price risk. We could experience increased costs as a result of volatility in the market values of those commodities. We could also experience losses on our derivative contracts as a result of that market value volatility or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these derivative contracts involves our exercise of judgment and use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. We are exposed to interest rate risk. We are exposed to interest rate risk on our variable rate financing. MGE Energy had $22.5 million of variable-rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2010, including $3.5 million for MGE. Borrowing levels under commercial paper arrangements vary from period to period depending upon capital investments and other factors. Such interest rate risk means that we are exposed to increased financing costs and associated cash payments as a result of changes in the short-term interest rates. Also, interest rates affect discount rates which are a key assumption for our defined benefit pension plans and may impact the amount of expense and timing of contributions to the plan. Market performance affects our employee benefit plan asset values. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy the future obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. A decline in the market value of those assets may increase our current and longer-term funding requirements for these obligations. Changes in the value of trust fund assets may affect the level of required contributions to these trusts to meet benefit obligations. Reduced benefit plan assets could result in increased benefit costs in future years and may increase the amount and accelerate the timing of required future funding contributions. We are exposed to credit risk primarily through our regulated energy business. Credit risk is the loss that may result from counterparty nonperformance. We face credit risk primarily through MGE's regulated energy business. Failure of contractual counterparties to perform their obligations under purchase power agreements, commodity supply arrangements or other agreements may result in increased expenses for MGE as a result of being forced to cover the shortfall in the spot or short-term market, where prices may be more volatile. 18 As a holding company, we are dependent on upstream cash flows from our subsidiaries for the payment of dividends on our common stock. As a holding company, we have no operations of our own, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of our operating subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to us. Prior to funding us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and obligations to trade creditors, and are subject to contractual and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends. Disruptions in the financial markets may affect our ability to finance at a reasonable cost and in accordance with our planned schedule. The credit markets have experienced some recent disruption and uncertainty. To the extent that such issues affect the ability or willingness of credit providers or investors to participate in the credit markets or particular types of investments, or affect their perception of the risk associated with particular types of investments, our cost of borrowing could be affected. General economic conditions may affect our operating revenues, our capital costs and our counterparty risks. Operational MGE Energy's and MGE's operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions. The consequences of a prolonged period of reduced economic activity may include lower demand for energy, uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets, and increased credit risk. A decline in energy consumption may adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Increased credit risk reflects the risk that our retail customers will not pay their bills in a timely manner or at all, which may lead to a reduction in liquidity and an eventual increase in bad debt expense. Liquidity Long-term instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. Although MGE Energy and MGE believe they have sufficient liquidity despite the disruption of capital and credit markets, the costs of such funds may increase. Counterparty creditworthiness Credit risk also includes the risk that trading counterparties that owe us money or product will breach their obligations. MGE's risk management policy is to limit transactions to a group of high quality counterparties. Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. MGE Energy and MGE None. 19 