ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by a number of factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, including causing our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. The following list of significant risk factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect us in future periods. You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. Revenue from the U.S. represents a significant part of our total revenue. In 2015, our U.S. revenue increased by 38%, compared to 2014. Unless our U.S. revenue continues to improve, we could experience a material adverse effect on our total revenue, profitability, employee retention and stock price. Revenue from the U.S. represented 52% of our total revenue in 2015 compared to 45% in 2014. U.S revenue increased by 38% in 2015, compared to 2014, due to several factors, including: ● In 2014 and in 2015, we continued to expand our North American direct sales force, restructured their compensation arrangements, and hired new sales management experienced in the medical equipment industry. ● Historically, following a new product introduction, we experience revenue growth, compared to the same period in the prior year. We experienced revenue growth from our new enlighten and excel HR products launched in the fourth and second quarter of 2014, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will continue to introduce new products each year, or that the new product introductions will translate into increased revenue in the long term in the U.S., or that the new direct sales employees and management hired to replace the departed sales employees will continue to be effective and result in improved sales productivity. Further, if the current economic recovery does not continue, or there is another recession in the U.S., our future revenue would be adversely impacted and we could experience a material adverse effect on total revenue, profitability, employee retention and stock price. 17 Table Of Contents In over seven years we have only had three profitable quarters and we are unable to predict whether we will return to sustained quarterly profits in the future. Although we had a profitable fourth quarter in 2009, 2012 and 2015, we have otherwise had net quarterly losses in each quarter since the third quarter of 2008. There is no guarantee that we will be profitable in the future and you should not rely on our operating results for any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. Any predictions about the performance of our operations in the future may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer history of profitability. Revenue growth in our business is driven by several factors and one such factor is new product introductions. While our recently released products in 2014 — enlighten- Q4’14 and excel HR- Q2’14 — have resulted in the growth of our revenue over the last seven quarters ended December 31, 2015, sales of our truSculpt product introduced in 2012 have not penetrated the market to the degree we had expected. In an effort to improve our revenue, we have invested in the restructuring and expansion of our global sales force, re-evaluated and changed the structure of their compensation arrangements, hired new senior sales management with prior experience in the aesthetic medical device industry, and increased our marketing and promotional activities. We have also invested heavily in training our new sales employees to sell our products and in marketing efforts to generate additional revenue. For the full-year 2015, compared to 2014, our revenue increased by $16.6 million but our combined cost of revenue and operating expenses increased by $10.5 million. Our ability to return to sustained profitability depends on the extent to which we can increase revenue and control our costs to be able to leverage our expenses. In addition, we need to be able to counter any unforeseen difficulties, complications, product delays or other unknown factors that may require additional expenditures. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our growth prospects, product development, sales and marketing and other efforts, unforeseen litigation expenses, etc., we are unable to predict the extent of our future profitability or losses. If our revenue does not continue to improve, or we do not achieve adequate growth in the future, or if we are not able to control our costs to leverage our expenses, like we had in the four quarters of 2015, then we may not be able to sustain quarterly profitability or be able to continue to generate cash in our operations in the future. We rely heavily on our sales professionals to market and sell our products worldwide. If we are unable to hire, effectively train, manage, improve the productivity of, and retain the sales professionals, our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability. Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, train, manage and improve the productivity levels of our sales professionals worldwide. Because of our focus on the non-core market in the past, several of our sales professionals do not have established relationships with the core market, consisting of dermatologists and plastic surgeons, or where those relationships exist, they are not very strong. We have experienced direct sales employee and sales management turnover in North America for several reasons. One such reason was a change in sales leadership in 2014. Further, competition for sales professionals who are familiar and trained to sell in the aesthetic equipment market continues to be strong. As a result, we have lost some of our sales people to our competitors. However, we have also hired a record number of new sales people, including several from our competitors. Several of our sales employees and sales management have been recently hired or recently transferred into different roles, and it will take time for them to be fully trained to improve their productivity. In addition, due to the competition for sales professionals in our industry, we have recruited sales professionals from outside the industry. Sales professionals from outside the industry take longer to train and to become familiar with our products and the procedures in which they are used. As a result of a lack of industry knowledge, these sales professionals may take longer to become productive members of our sales force. Over the past approximately fifteen months, we restructured and have been expanding our North American direct sales force and sales management. We have increased our efforts to hire industry experienced sales professionals but there can be no guarantee that we will be able to retain all of the hired sales professionals or that they will all become productive in a short period of time. Our industry is characterized by a few established companies that compete vigorously for talented sales professionals. Further, as the economy in North America has rebounded from the recent recession, some of those sales professionals have left our company for jobs that they perceive to be better opportunities, both within and outside of the aesthetic industry. We believe that the sales employee turnover, restructuring and expansion of the sales force had a negative impact on our North American productivity in 2014. We train our existing and recently recruited sales professionals to better understand our existing and new product technologies and how they can be positioned against our competitors’ products. These initiatives are intended to improve the productivity of our sales professionals and our revenue and profitability. It takes time for the sales professionals to become productive following their training and there can be no assurance that the recently recruited sales professionals will be adequately trained in a timely manner, or that our direct sales productivity will improve, or that we will not experience significant levels of attrition in the future. Measures we implement in an effort to recruit, retain, train and manage our sales professionals, strengthen their relationships with core market physicians, and improve their productivity may not be successful and may instead contribute to instability in our operations, additional departures from our sales organization, or further reduce our revenue and harm our business. If we are not able to improve the productivity and retention of our North American and international sales professionals, then our total revenue, profitability and stock price may be adversely impacted. 18 Table Of Contents If our revenue does not improve, or if our cost of revenue and/or operating expenses increase by a greater percentage than our revenue, our gross margins and operating margins may be adversely impacted, our loss from operations will increase, and our cash used in operating activities will increase, which could reduce our assets and have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our gross margin (revenue less cost of revenue) was 57% in 2015, compared to 56% in 2014. Our gross margin is impacted by the revenue that we generate and the costs incurred to generate the revenue. To the extent that our revenue declines, it is difficult to improve our gross margins as our fixed costs must be spread over a lower revenue base. Our future revenue may be adversely affected by a number of factors including the competitive market environment in which we operate, which may result in a decrease in the number of units sold, a decrease in the number of applications per system purchased by customers, a decrease in the average selling prices achieved for our product sales, a shift in our product mix towards products with lower average selling prices, or a shift in our product mix towards products with lower margins. Our cost of revenue may also be adversely impacted by various factors such as obsolescence of our inventory, impairment of our intangibles, increased expenses associated with the repair of defective products covered by our warranty program, utilization of our relatively fixed manufacturing costs, and a shift in our product mix towards products that have a higher cost of manufacturing. We have also been investing significant resources in our research and development and sales and marketing activities. We have expanded our global direct sales force, and while the increase in revenue exceeded the increase in sales and marketing expenses in 2015, the productivity of our new sales professionals may not continue to improve and be accretive to our operating income. We plan to continue making such investments in order to bring new products to market and to distribute them effectively. If these investments do not yield increased revenue, our profitability may not improve in the future. If our revenue does not improve, or if our cost of revenue increases by a greater percentage than our revenue, or if we are not able to reduce expenses in the event of a decline in revenue, we may continue to generate losses from operations and use cash, which could reduce our assets and have a material adverse effect on our operations and stock price. In February 2016, a lawsuit was filed against us by Kendall Jenner and Kendall Jenner Inc. (“Plaintiffs”), alleging trademark infringement, false endorsement and violation of Jenner’s right of publicity. There can be no assurance regarding the potential outcome of this litigation, or its impact upon us, at this time. The expense of defending and resolving this lawsuit may adversely impact our future earnings, cash flows and stock price. On February 11, 2016, Kendall Jenner and Kendall Jenner Inc. (“Plaintiffs”), filed a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. District Court, Central District of California, alleging trademark infringement, false endorsement and violation of Jenner’s right of publicity. The claims arise out of alleged advertising referring to news articles describing Jenner’s blog posting regarding her use of our Laser Genesis treatment for her acne. In their complaint, the Plaintiffs state that they are seeking “at least $10 million” in compensatory damages and reasonable costs and attorney’s fees. We are presently investigating the matter and intend to defend the matter vigorously. While we believe we have meritorious defenses to the claims made, there can be no assurance regarding the potential outcome of this litigation, or its impact upon us, at this time. The expense of defending and resolving this lawsuit may adversely impact our future earnings, cash flows and stock price. The aesthetic equipment market is characterized by rapid innovation. To compete effectively, we must develop and/or acquire new products, market them successfully, and identify new markets for our technology. We have created products to apply our technology to body contouring, hair removal, treatment of veins, tattoo removal, and skin rejuvenation, including the treatment of diffuse redness, skin laxity, fine lines, wrinkles, skin texture, pore size and benign pigmented lesions, etc. In the fourth quarter of 2014, we launched enlighten, a dual wavelength, dual pulse duration tattoo removal and benign pigmented lesions treatment system featuring picosecond technology. Additionally, in the second quarter of 2014 we launched excel HR, a premium hair removal platform for all skin types. To grow in the future, we must continue to develop and/or acquire new and innovative aesthetic products and applications, identify new markets, and successfully launch the newly acquired or developed product offerings. To successfully expand our product offerings, we must, among other things: ● Develop and acquire new products that either add to or significantly improve our current product offerings; ● Convince our existing and prospective customers that our product offerings are an attractive revenue-generating addition to their practice; ● Sell our product offerings to a broad customer base; ● Identify new markets and alternative applications for our technology; ● Protect our existing and future products with defensible intellectual property; and ● Satisfy and maintain all regulatory requirements for commercialization. 19 Table Of Contents Historically, product introductions have been a significant component of our financial performance. To be successful in the aesthetics industry, we need to continue to innovate. Our business strategy has therefore been based, in part, on our expectation that we will continue to increase our product offerings. We need to continue to devote substantial research and development resources to make new product introductions, which can be costly and time consuming to our organization. We also believe that, to increase revenue from sales of new products, we need to continue to develop our clinical support, further expand and nurture relationships with industry thought leaders and increase market awareness of the benefits of our new products. However, even with a significant investment in research and development, we may be unable to continue to develop, acquire or effectively launch and market new products and technologies regularly, or at all. If we fail to successfully commercialize new products, our business may be harmed. While we attempt to protect our products through patents and other intellectual property, there are few barriers to entry that would prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products that compete directly with ours. We expect that any competitive advantage we may enjoy from current and future innovations may diminish over time as companies successfully respond to our, or create their own, innovations. Consequently, we believe that we will have to continuously innovate and improve our products and technology to compete successfully. If we are unable to innovate successfully, our products could become obsolete and our revenue could decline as our customers and prospects purchase our competitors’ products. Demand for our products in any of our markets could be weakened by several factors, including: ● Our ability to develop and market our products to the core market specialties of dermatologists and plastic surgeons; ● Poor financial performance of market segments that try introducing aesthetic procedures to their businesses; ● The inability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors; ● Reduced patient demand for elective aesthetic procedures; ● Failure to build and maintain relationships with opinion leaders within the various market segments; ● An increase in malpractice lawsuits that result in higher insurance costs; and ● The lack of credit financing for some of our potential customers. If we do not achieve anticipated demand for our products, there could be a material adverse effect on our total revenue, profitability, employee retention and stock price. Macroeconomic political and market conditions, and catastrophic events may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control, including: ● General economic and business conditions; ● The overall demand for our products by the core market specialties of dermatologists and plastic surgeons; ● Governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; ● General political developments; ● Natural disasters; and ● Currency exchange rate fluctuations. Macroeconomic developments, like the global recession and the financial crisis in the U.S. and certain countries in the European Union during 2007 to 2009, could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. A general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their budgets or be unable to fund product or upgrade application purchases, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. In addition, political unrest in regions like the Middle East, terrorist attacks around the globe and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. Macroeconomic declines, negative political developments, adverse market conditions and catastrophic events may cause a decline in our revenue, negatively affect our operating results, adversely affect our cash flow and could result in a decline in our stock price. 20 Table Of Contents To successfully market and sell our products internationally, we must address many issues that are unique to our international business. While our international revenue in 2015 increased by 8%, compared to 2014, it was negatively impacted by the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar versus the major currencies in which we transact. International revenue is a material component of our business strategy, and represented 48% of our total revenue in 2015, compared to 55% in 2014. We depend on third-party distributors and a direct sales force to sell our products internationally, and if they underperform, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of international revenue. For example, our direct business in Japan declined in 2015, negatively impacting our revenue from international operations. We have experienced significant turnover of our European sales team in the past. While we continue to have a direct sales and service organization in France, Belgium, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, a significant portion of our European revenue is generated through our network of distributors. Though we continue to evaluate and replace non-performing distributors, and have recently brought greater focus on collaborating with our distributor partners, there can be no assurance given that these initiatives will result in improved European-sourced revenue or profitability in the future. To grow our business, we will need to improve productivity in current sales territories and expand into new territories. However, direct sales productivity may not improve and distributors may not accept our business or commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. If we are not able to increase or maintain international revenue growth, our total revenue, profitability and stock price may be adversely impacted. We believe, as we continue to manage our international operations and develop opportunities in additional international territories, our international revenue will be subject to a number of risks, including: ● Fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates; ● Difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign operations; ● Political and economic instability; ● Foreign certification and regulatory requirements; ● Lengthy payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; ● Export restrictions, trade regulations and foreign tax laws; ● Customs clearance and shipping delays; ● Lack of awareness of our brand in international markets; ● Preference for locally-produced products; and ● Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. If one or more of these risks were realized, it could require us to dedicate significant resources to remedy the situation; and if we were unsuccessful at finding a solution, we may not be able to sell our products in a particular market and, as a result, our revenue may decline. We are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar and foreign currencies. Foreign currency fluctuations could result in volatility of our revenue. We do not actively hedge our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. While we transact business primarily in U.S. Dollars, and a significant proportion of our revenue is denominated in U.S. Dollars, a portion of our costs and revenue is denominated in other currencies, such as the Euro, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies to the U.S. Dollar will affect our results from operations. For example, as a result of the recent strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, relative to many other major currencies, our products priced in U.S. Dollars have become more expensive relative to products of our foreign competitors. In addition, our revenue earned in foreign currencies, such as our locally generated revenue in Japan, has been negatively impacted upon translation into U.S. Dollars. Both these factors had a negative impact on our international revenue in 2015, compared to 2014. Future foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact and increase the volatility of our revenue, profitability and stock price. Our ability to effectively compete and generate additional revenue from new and existing products depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products, and to develop and effectively market new and existing products. Our success is dependent on many factors, including the following: ● Speed of new and innovative product development; ● Effective strategy and execution of new product launches; ● Identification and development of clinical support for new indications of our existing products; ● Product performance; ● Product pricing; ● Quality of customer support; ● Development of successful distribution channels, both domestically and internationally; and ● Intellectual property protection. 21 Table Of Contents To compete effectively, we have to demonstrate that our new and existing products are attractive alternatives to other devices and treatments, by differentiating our products on the basis of such factors as innovation, performance, brand name, service, and price. This is difficult to do, especially in a crowded aesthetic market. Some of our competitors have newer or different products and more established customer relationships than we do, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. For example, we have encountered, and expect to continue to encounter, situations where, due to pre-existing relationships, potential customers decided to purchase additional products from our competitors. Potential customers also may need to recoup the cost of products that they have already purchased from our competitors and may decide not to purchase our products, or to delay such purchases. If we are unable to increase our market penetration or compete effectively, our revenue and profitability will be adversely impacted. We compete against companies that offer alternative solutions to our products, or have greater resources, a larger installed base of customers and broader product offerings than ours. If we are not able to effectively compete with these companies, it may harm our business. Our industry is subject to intense competition. Our products compete against similar products offered by public companies, such as Cynosure, Elen (in Italy), Lumenis (acquired by XIO Group in September 2015), Solta (acquired by Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. in January 2014), Syneron, as well as private companies such as Alma, Sciton and several other companies. Recently, there has been consolidation in the aesthetic industry leading to companies combining their resources. For example, XIO Group acquired Lumenis in September 2015, and Valeant acquired Solta in January 2014 and Cynosure acquired Palomar in June 2013. We are likely to compete with new companies in the future. Competition with these companies could result in reduced selling prices, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The energy-based aesthetic market faces competition from non-energy-based medical products, such as Botox, an injectable compound used to reduce wrinkles, and collagen injections. Other alternatives to the use of our products include electrolysis, a procedure involving the application of electric current to eliminate hair follicles, and chemical peels. We may also face competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other products that have not yet been developed. If there is not sufficient consumer demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner demand for our products could be inhibited, resulting in unfavorable operating results and reduced growth potential. Continued expansion of the global market for laser and other-energy-based aesthetic procedures is a material assumption of our business strategy. Most procedures performed using our products are elective procedures not reimbursable through government or private health insurance, with the costs borne by the patient. The decision to utilize our products may therefore be influenced by a number of factors, including: ● Consumer disposable income and access to consumer credit, which as a result of the unstable economy, may have been significantly impacted; ● The cost of procedures performed using our products; ● The cost, safety and effectiveness of alternative treatments, including treatments which are not based upon laser or other energy-based technologies and treatments which use pharmaceutical products; ● The success of our sales and marketing efforts; and ● The education of our customers and patients on the benefits and uses of our products, compared to competitors’ products and technologies. If, as a result of these factors, there is not sufficient demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner demand for our products could be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, revenue and result of operations. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), federal and state agencies and international regulatory bodies have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it could result in enforcement action by the FDA, federal and state agencies or international regulatory bodies. The FDA, state authorities and international regulatory bodies have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with any U.S. law or any of the applicable regulatory requirements of the FDA, or federal or state agencies, or one of the international regulatory bodies, it could result in enforcement action by the agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: ● Warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; ● Repair, replacement, refund, recall or seizure of our products; ● Operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; ● Refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; ● Withdrawing 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals that have already been granted; and ● Criminal prosecution. 22 Table Of Contents If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances for our products and indications, if clearances for future products and indications are delayed or not issued, if there are federal or state level regulatory changes or if we are found to have violated applicable FDA marketing rules, our commercial operations would be harmed. Our products are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. by the FDA for manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or labeling claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the U.S., it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. In the event that we do not obtain FDA clearances or approvals for our products, our ability to market and sell them in the U.S. and revenue derived from the U.S. market may be adversely affected. Medical devices may be marketed in the U.S. only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared by the FDA. If we fail to comply with these regulations, it could result in enforcement action by the FDA which could lead to such consequences as warning letters, adverse publicity, criminal enforcement action and/or third-party civil litigation, each of which could adversely affect us. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the indications for which we market our products. However, our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. We also are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Our products are also subject to state regulations, which are, in many instances, frequently changing. Changes in state regulations may impede sales. For example, federal regulations allow our products to be sold to, or on the order of, “licensed practitioners,” as determined on a state-by-state basis. As a result, in some states, non-physicians may legally purchase our products. However, a state could change its regulations at any time, thereby disallowing sales to particular types of end users. We cannot predict the impact or effect of future legislation or regulations at the federal or state levels. Federal regulatory reforms and changes occurring at the FDA could adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably and financial condition. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a device. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Changes in FDA regulations may lengthen the regulatory approval process for medical devices and require additional clinical data to support regulatory clearance for the sale and marketing of our new products. In addition, it may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market. Either of these changes lengthen the duration to market, increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and laser performance standards, our manufacturing operations could be halted, and our business would suffer. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (the “QSR”). The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Because our products involve the use of lasers, our products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record-keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the QSR and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. We have had multiple quality system audits by the FDA, our Notified Body, and other foreign regulatory agencies, with the most recent inspection by the FDA occurring over three weeks in March 2014. There were no significant findings and only one observation as a result of this audit. Our response to this observation was accepted by the FDA. Failure to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or our failure to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, such as those described in the preceding paragraph, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. 23 Table Of Contents If we modify one of our FDA-approved devices, we may need to seek re-approval, which, if not granted, would prevent us from selling our modified products or cause us to redesign our products. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a pre-market approval. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearance would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearance or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign our products. We may be unable to obtain or maintain international regulatory qualifications or approvals for our current or future products and indications, which could harm our business. Sales of our products outside the U.S. are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. In addition, exports of medical devices from the U.S. are regulated by the FDA. Complying with international regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time-consuming process and approval is not certain. The time required for obtaining clearance or approvals, if required by other countries, may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approvals, and requirements for such clearances or approvals may significantly differ from FDA requirements. We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory qualifications, clearances or approvals in other countries. We may also incur significant costs in attempting to obtain and in maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or qualifications. If we experience delays in receiving necessary qualifications, clearances or approvals to market our products outside the U.S., or if we fail to receive those qualifications, clearances or approvals, we may be unable to market our products or enhancements in international markets effectively, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and growth strategy. Any defects in the design, material or workmanship of our products may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could materially increase our expenses, adversely impact profitability and harm our business. The design of our products is complex. To manufacture them successfully, we must procure quality components and employ individuals with a significant degree of technical expertise. If our designs are defective, or the material components used in our products are subject to wearing out, or if suppliers fail to deliver components to specification, or if our employees fail to properly assemble, test and package our products, the reliability and performance of our products will be adversely impacted. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired easily, inexpensively, or on a timely basis, we may experience: ● Damage to our brand reputation; ● Loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; ● Increased costs due to product repair or replacement; ● Inability to attract new customers; ● Diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and ● Legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could materially increase expenses, adversely impact profitability and harm our business. We depend on skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are unable to recruit, hire, train and retain these employees, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees. Except for Change of Control and Severance Agreements for our executive officers and a few key employees, we do not have employment contracts with any of our officers or other key employees. Any of our officers and other key employees may terminate their employment at any time. We do not have a succession plan in place for each of our officers and key employees. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our senior management team members could weaken our management expertise and harm our business. Our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees are critical factors in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel. The staff we hire to perform administrative functions may become stretched due to our increased growth and they may not be able to perform their jobs effectively or efficiently as a result. 24 Table Of Contents We may face particularly significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees. Failure to attract, train and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel, would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. Product liability suits could be brought against us due to a defective design, material or workmanship or misuse of our products and could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Misusing our products or failing to adhere to operating guidelines could cause significant eye and skin damage, and underlying tissue damage. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. We have been involved, and may in the future be involved, in litigation related to the use of our products. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all future claims. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and could reduce product sales. In addition, we historically experienced steep increases in our product liability insurance premiums as a percentage of revenue. If our premiums continue to rise, we may no longer be able to afford adequate insurance coverage. If customers are not trained and/or our products are used by non-physicians, it could result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation, result in product liability litigation, distract management, result in additional costs, all of which could harm our business. Because we do not require training for users of our products, and sell our products at times to non-physicians, there exists an increased potential for misuse of our products, which could harm our reputation and our business. U.S. federal regulations allow us to sell our products to or on the order of “licensed practitioners.” The definition of “licensed practitioners” varies from state to state. As a result, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training, and in many states, by non-physicians, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. Outside the U.S., many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, nor do we require that direct medical supervision occur. We and our distributors generally offer but do not require product training to the purchasers or operators of our products. In addition, we sometimes sell our systems to companies that rent our systems to third parties and that provide a technician to perform the procedures. The lack of training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and our business, and, in the event these result in product liability litigation, distract management and subject us to liability, including legal expenses. In the past we entered into strategic alliances to distribute third party products internationally. To successfully market and sell these products, we must address many issues that are unique to these businesses and could reduce our available cash reserves and negatively impact our profitability. In the past we entered into distribution arrangements pursuant to which we utilize our sales force and distributors to sell products manufactured by other companies. In Japan, we have a non-exclusive right to distribute a Q-switched laser product manufactured by a third party OEM. We also have an exclusive agreement with ZO to distribute certain of their proprietary skincare products, in Japan. Each of these agreements requires us to purchase annual minimum dollar amounts of their product. If we do not make these minimum purchases, we could lose distribution rights of these products to physicians in Japan. Finally, we had an agreement with Merz Aesthetics to distribute its Radiesse dermal filler product in Japan, but terminated this agreement in the second quarter of 2014. Each of these distribution agreements presents its own unique risks and challenges. For example, to sell skincare products we need to invest in creating a sales structure that is experienced in the sale of these products and not in capital equipment. We need to commit resources to training this sales force, obtaining regulatory licenses in Japan and developing new marketing materials to promote the sale of skincare products. In addition, the minimum commitments and other costs of distributing products manufactured by these companies may exceed the incremental revenue that we derive from the sale of their products thereby negatively impacting our profitability and reducing our available cash reserves. Adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our marketable investments or impair our liquidity. We invest our excess cash primarily in money market funds and in highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies and U.S. municipalities, in commercial paper and high grade corporate debt. As of December 31, 2015, our balance in marketable investments was $38 million. The longer the duration of a security, the more susceptible it is to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. For example, assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the fair value of our total investment portfolio as of December 31, 2015 would have potentially decreased by approximately $242,000, resulting in an unrealized loss that would subsequently adversely impact our earnings. As a result, changes in the market interest rates will affect our future net income (loss). 25 Table Of Contents The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to several factors, some of which are discussed below. Further, we have a limited number of shares of common stock outstanding, a large portion of which is held by a small number of investors, which could result in the increase in volatility of our stock price. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 52% of our outstanding shares of common stock were held by 10 institutional investors. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. The public market price of our common stock has in the past fluctuated substantially and, due to the current concentration of stockholders, may continue to do so in the future. The market price for our common stock could also be affected by a number of other factors, including: ● Litigation surrounding executive compensation has increased. If we are involved in a lawsuit related to compensation matters or any other matters not covered by our D&O insurance, there could be material expenses involved, fines, or remedial actions which could negatively affect our stock price; ● The general market conditions unrelated to our operating performance; ● Sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and our large institutional investors; ● Quarterly variations in our, or our competitors’, results of operations; ● Changes in analysts’ estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ estimates; ● The announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; ● The announcement of the departure of a key employee or executive officer by us or our competitors; ● Regulatory developments or delays concerning our, or our competitors’ products; and ● The initiation of any other litigation by us or against us. Actual or perceived instability and / or volatility in our stock price could reduce demand from potential buyers of our stock, thereby causing our stock price to either remain depressed or to decline further. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Many of the components and materials that comprise our products are currently manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond our current suppliers’ capabilities could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified and qualified. Our reliance on these suppliers subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business, including: ● Interruption of supply resulting from modifications to or discontinuation of a supplier’s operations; ● Delays in product shipments resulting from uncorrected defects, reliability issues or a supplier’s variation in a component; ● A lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; ● Inability to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner, or on reasonable terms; ● Inability to redesign one or more components in our systems in the event that a supplier discontinues manufacturing such components and we are unable to source it from other suppliers on reasonable terms; ● Difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our components in a timely manner; ● Production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; and ● Delay in supplier deliveries. Any interruption in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. 26 Table Of Contents Intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection for some or all of our products, which may permit third parties to compete against us more effectively. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and products. At December 31, 2015, we had 34 issued U.S. patents. Some of our components, such as our laser module, electronic control system and high-voltage electronics, are not, and in the future may not be, protected by patents. Additionally, our patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we obtain may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. Consequently, competitors could market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to, or superior to, ours. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized uses and disclosures of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. Moreover, the laws of many foreign countries will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The absence of complete intellectual property protection exposes us to a greater risk of direct competition. Competitors could purchase one of our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, design around our protected technology, or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position and our business could be adversely affected. We may be involved in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact our future business and financial performance. Our competitors or other patent holders may assert that our present or future products and the methods we employ are covered by their patents. In addition, we do not know whether our competitors own or will obtain patents that they may claim prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use, sell or import our products. Although we may seek to resolve any potential future claims or actions, we may not be able to do so on reasonable terms, or at all. If, following a successful third-party action for infringement, we cannot obtain a license or redesign our products, we may have to stop manufacturing and selling the applicable products and our business would suffer as a result. In addition, a court could require us to pay substantial damages, and prohibit us from using technologies essential to our products, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may become involved in litigation not only as a result of alleged infringement of a third party’s intellectual property rights but also to protect our own intellectual property. For example, we have been, and may hereafter become, involved in litigation to protect the trademark rights associated with our company name or the names of our products. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and could divert management’s attention from our core business. We offer credit terms to some qualified customers and also to leasing companies to finance the purchase of our products. In the event that any of these customers default on the amounts payable to us, our earnings may be adversely affected. While we qualify customers to whom we offer credit terms (generally net 30 to 90 days), we cannot provide any assurance that the financial position of these customers will not change adversely before we receive payment. For example, as of December 31, 2015, one distributor partner accounted for 10% of our outstanding accounts receivable balance. Our general and administrative expenses and earnings are negatively impacted by customer defaults and cause an increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts. In the event that there is a default by any customers to whom we have provided credit terms in the future, we may recognize a bad debt charge in our general and administrative expenses and this could negatively affect our earnings and results of operations. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and therefore adversely affect our financial condition. Some of our customers and prospective customers have had difficulty procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operation and use of our products. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain states or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using our products and potential customers may opt against purchasing laser based products due to the cost or inability to procure insurance coverage. The unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers and prospects could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and that could harm our financial condition. Healthcare reform legislation may have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. In December 2009, the President and members of Congress passed legislation relating to healthcare reform. Procedures performed by our products are not reimbursed by insurance companies or federal or state governments and as a result this legislation had a limited impact on our business. Medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax of 2.3% on certain U.S. medical device revenues on sales after January 1, 2013. Though there were some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax did apply to all or most of our products sold within the U.S. In December 2015, President Obama signed into law the Consolidated Appropriations Act (“Appropriations Act”). The Appropriations Act includes a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax such that medical device revenues in 2016 and 2017 will be exempt from the excise tax. Unless there is further legislative action during that two-year period, the tax will be automatically reinstated for sales of medical devices on or after January 1, 2018 and will have an adverse effect on our operating profitability and financial conditions in 2018 and beyond. 27 Table Of Contents Our ability to use net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards to offset future tax liabilities may be limited. As of December 31, 2015, we had cumulative net operating loss carry-forwards (“NOLs”) for federal and state income tax reporting purposes of approximately $41.8 million and $11.2 million, respectively, and research and development tax credits (“R&D tax credits”) for federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $4.7 million and $5.7 million, respectively. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs and R&D tax credit carryforwards. In addition, under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, a corporation that experiences a more-than 50% ownership change over a three-year testing period is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and R&D tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income. We have not conducted a study to-date to assess whether a limitation would apply under Section 382 of the Code. In the event it is determined that we previously experienced an ownership change, or should we experience an ownership change in the future, the amount of NOLs and R&D tax credit carryovers available in any taxable year, could be limited and may expire unutilized, and any such adjustment is not reflected in the NOL and R&D tax credits balances reported. From time to time we may become subject to income tax audits or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions where we operate through a subsidiary including Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Hong Kong, Japan, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. In July 2015, our Japan subsidiary underwent an income tax audit for the years 2012 to 2014. Although this audit resulted in a minimal adjustment, the final timing and resolution of any tax examinations are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Any acquisitions that we make could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations. While we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions or collaborative projects We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate any businesses, products or technologies that we acquire. We have limited experience as a team with acquiring companies and products. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition and management of any collaborative project may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations and we may incur significant legal, accounting and banking fees in connection with such a transaction. Acquisitions could diminish our available cash balances for other uses, result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, and restructuring charges. Also, the anticipated benefits or value of our acquisitions or investments may not materialize and could result in an impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, similar to the $650,000 charge we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014 related to an acquisition completed in 2012. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business and our financial condition or results. Anti-takeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover, and might make it more difficult for an investor to acquire a substantial block of our common stock. These provisions include: ● A classified board of directors; ● Advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; ● Limitations on stockholder actions by written consent; and ● The right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. These provisions, as well as Change of Control and Severance Agreements entered into with each of our executive officers and certain key employees, might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 28 Table Of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 