Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors set forth below and the other information contained in this Form 10-K should be considered carefully as these are important factors, among others, that could materially and adversely affect our future operating results and share price, and could cause actual results to differ materially from expected or historical results. There may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have effects similar to those set forth below. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a cautionary discussion regarding forward-looking statements. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, including the related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Deterioration of and extreme volatility in general economic conditions and consumer spending conditions could result in a decline in the number of people willing to purchase our premium travel products. Demand for our products and services may be significantly affected by the general level of economic activity, level of discretionary spending and employment levels in the United States and key international markets. Therefore, global economic downturns or a recession could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and our results of operations. While there have been positive indications that the economies of the United States and other world markets are improving, we continue to face economic conditions which have impacted demand for premium travel products in the industry and the markets in which we operate. We expect these conditions will continue to impact our operations and profitability for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to obtain quality leads or prospects and/or are ineffective in our marketing efforts, our future growth and profitability could be impacted. Performance in our travel programs is substantially reliant on our ability to attract and retain travelers through our direct and digital marketing and retention efforts. The effectiveness of marketing efforts is highly dependent on our ability to integrate a multi-channel direct and digital marketing strategy, which requires us to manage several priorities; identifying and obtaining productive lead sources, executing direct mail strategies, securing attendance and conversion at our local informational meetings, increasing our digital presence and converting those leads into delegates, and retaining delegates. Failure or underperformance of our marketing efforts due to factors such as but not limited to, adverse future changes in the direct-mail environment, inability to convert our business to an integrated multi-channel direct mail and digital marketing approach, adverse changes to privacy laws affecting lead sources, or changes to our reputation with potential participants and teachers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. A decline in the travel industry could adversely affect our results of operations. Our performance depends upon factors affecting the travel industry in general. Our earnings are especially sensitive to events that affect domestic and international air travel and availability of lodging and transportation. A number of factors, including a rise in fuel prices, reduction of airline capacity causing prices to increase, excessive inflation, currency fluctuations within the global market, the strength of the U.S. dollar, foreign taxation changes, extreme weather conditions and concerns about passenger safety could result in a temporary or longer-term decline in demand or reduced profitability for our programs. -6- Business interruption due to natural occurrences, international political or terrorist activities and threats thereof, and other world events or incidents affecting the health, safety, security, program interest and/or program satisfaction of actual and potential program participants could have an adverse effect on our profitability. Our operations are subject to the risks inherent in doing business internationally, as most of our travel programs are conducted outside of the United States. Demand for our travel programs may be adversely affected by natural occurrences such as hurricanes, tsunamis, earthquakes, extreme flooding, and epidemics or other disease outbreaks such as influenza in geographic regions in which we conduct travel programs. In the event potential risks, such as war, U.S. military deployments, international and domestic terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, governmental activities and deprivation of contract rights occur, they may impact our customers willingness to travel to these destinations or our ability to deliver planned programs. The consequences of these types of events are unpredictable and the occurrence of any of the events described above, or other unforeseen developments in one or more of the regions in which we travel, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to acquire, retain, and/or travel enrollments, which would substantially impact profitability, cash flows, and results of operations. Historically, we have experienced increased cancellations for our travel programs during such times and if these business interruptions occur during the peak travel season, the impact can be magnified. If we are unable to attract and retain effective key personnel with industry specific knowledge, our ability to market and conduct our travel programs will be diminished. Our performance is dependent on the continued services and performance of senior management and certain other key personnel with specialized knowledge of our industry. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business operations, along with our ability to grow our business, generate innovative ideas, remain strategic, and recruit and maintain highly functional teams. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. Our inability to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations. If we are unable to use our established brands such as the “People to People” name, or if the value of our name, image or brand diminishes, our ability in attracting future travelers could be significantly impacted and our business would be harmed. Our brand names and trademarks are integral to our marketing efforts. We have registered a variety of service and trademarks including, but not limited to, the names “People to People Ambassador Programs,” “People to People Student Ambassador Programs,” “People to People Sports Ambassador Programs,” “People to People Citizen Ambassador Programs,” “People to People Leadership Ambassador Programs,” “BookRags” and “Society for Global Citizens.” In addition, we have the right, subject to certain exceptions, to use the “People to People” service, trademarks and logos for use in our marketing. Our agreements with People to People International, currently scheduled to expire in 2020, give us the exclusive right to develop and conduct programs for grade school through high school students using the People to People name, and the non-exclusive right to develop and conduct programs for professionals, college students and athletes using the People to People name. If our agreement with People to People International were terminated or if we were unable to use the branded name to market our programs or destinations, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to acquire participants for our programs and consequently affect our results of operations. Similarly, if our relationship with People to People International is disrupted or is adversely impacted because People to People International experiences interruption, delay or ceases operations in the future for any reason, our business could be harmed. In addition, our ability to attract and enroll new delegates to travel with us is dependent on the value of the brands we associate with and our reputation with potential customers. If negative news coverage or other negative public relation matters occur in the student travel industry or specifically related to our company, our business could experience adverse effects impacting our volume and profitability. -7- The travel industry and specifically the educational segment within the travel industry are highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively in these markets, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected. The travel industry in general and the educational segment of the travel industry are highly competitive and have relatively low barriers to entry. We compete with other companies that provide similar educational travel programs, professional travel and adult continuing education programs, activity camps and summer camps, as well as independent programs organized and sponsored by local teachers with the assistance of local travel agents. People to People, under the terms of its agreement with us, reserves the right to offer programs to college students for studies abroad and to grant to other individuals or entities the right to use the People to People name in connection with People to People’s professional education and sports programs. In the event companies with similar operations to us are granted the right to use the People to People name, our operations and competitive position in the industry could be significantly and adversely impacted. Certain organizations engaged in the travel business could have substantially greater brand-name recognition and financial, marketing and sales resources than we do, and may offer an educational travel experience at a lower price. There can be no assurance that our present or future competitors will not exert significant competitive pressures on us in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our dependence on travel suppliers could delay the delivery of our products and services, which would impact our reputation and could reduce our profitability. We are dependent upon travel suppliers for access to their products and services. Travel suppliers include airlines, hotels, bus lines, overseas coordinators and other participants in the travel industry. Consistent with industry practices, we currently have no long-term agreements with travel suppliers that obligate such suppliers to sell services or products through us on an ongoing basis. Therefore, the travel suppliers generally can cancel or modify their agreements with us upon relatively short notice. In addition, any decline in the quality of travel products and services provided by these suppliers, or a perception by our participants of such a decline, could adversely affect our reputation and profitability. In addition, the loss of contracts, changes in our pricing agreements or commission arrangements, more restricted access to travel suppliers’ products and services, less favorable public opinion of certain travel suppliers, or loss of deposits with travel suppliers that could go bankrupt, could all have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the amount we pay for services received from foreign vendors and could adversely affect our gross margin results. The majority of our travel programs are internationally based and many of our arrangements with our foreign-based suppliers require payment to be made in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign currencies will impact the cost of the services we provide. We generally enter into forward contracts and other financial instruments with less than two years’ maturity to help manage program costs and hedge against foreign currency valuation changes. While the ability to utilize forward contracts for the delivery of foreign currencies can mitigate the effect on program costs and foreign currency exchange fluctuations, there can be no assurance that program costs will not be significantly impacted in future periods. There can also be no assurance our hedging strategy will mitigate longer-term foreign exchange valuation trends. Depending on the strength of the U.S. dollar at the time the forward contracts or other financial instruments are entered into, its strength throughout the contracted period, and the accuracy of our projected enrollment volume, we could experience over-hedged positions, which may result in a gain or loss that must be recognized immediately in our consolidated financial statements. -8- We are exposed to impairment risk of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets. Financial market volatility directly impacts fair value measurement through our estimated weighted average cost of capital, which is used to determine discount rate, and the market price of our common stock and thus market capitalization. Significant judgment must be applied to determine whether a change in the cost of credit or stock price is a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. The assessment for possible impairment requires us to make judgments including estimating future cash flows that are dependent upon internal forecasts, estimating the long-term rate of growth for our business, and estimating the useful life over which our cash flows will occur. While we have not previously recorded any impairment losses for goodwill or intangible assets, continued adverse market conditions could impact the fair value of our reporting units that could result in impairments of goodwill, intangible and other long-lived assets. Changes in our estimates and assumptions as they relate to valuation of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets could affect, potentially materially, our financial condition or results of operations in the future. We completed our annual impairment test of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets as of December 1, 2013, and concluded that no impairment existed. However, the estimated fair value of BookRags, with $9.7 million in goodwill, exceeded its carrying value by less than 5 percent. We will continue to monitor BookRags for impairment and if actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected or if circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of our goodwill, we will re-perform this test. Our financial results may suffer if we cannot successfully implement our restructuring plans and or cost cutting objectives aimed at right-sizing our operations. We have described in this report a plan to terminate or realign certain operations and to take other cost cutting measures that are intended to strengthen our company by right-sizing our operations to match revenue streams. We also described various impairment and restructuring charges related to this plan. If we fail to complete our restructuring plans timely and successfully, or if we fail to achieve the intended cost structure, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be further impacted. This plan also may have an adverse impact upon the morale or motivation of our employees, or may prove distracting or may result in further distractions to our management. Cost cutting initiatives may also reduce selling and marketing or other operating capabilities reducing our ability to respond to market demand. Any such outcomes, alone or in combination with other events or circumstances, may cause a decline in our stock price. Litigation or other claims of liability may subject us to significant costs, judgments, fines and penalties that may not be covered by or may be in excess of available insurance coverage, may divert management’s attention and resources from our business, and may result in adverse publicity. Due to the nature of our business as well as being a publicly held company, we may be subject to liability claims arising out of perceived wrong doing related to management’s decisions, securities claims, governmental investigations, business operations, or accidents or disasters causing injury to delegates on our programs, including claims for serious personal injury or death. We maintain adequate liability insurance coverage for risks arising from the normal course of our business, including, but not limited to, professional and general liability insurance. There is no assurance that the insurance maintained by us will be sufficient to cover one or more extraordinary claims, that such insurance will cover a particular claim or loss, continue to be available in the future, or that the applicable insurer will be solvent at the time of any covered loss. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and cost in the future. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large uninsured claims, or of one or a series of claims exceeding any insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition to the potential impact on profitability and public perception, liability claims asserted against us can also divert management’s attention and company resources to participation in the litigation process and defense of these asserted claims. We have been the subject of such claims historically and have incurred substantive expenses on top of insurance claim reimbursements. There can be no assurance such claims will not occur in the future. See Note 11, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K for further information. -9- The online research and advertising market is intensely competitive and changes rapidly. If we are unable to project trends and develop new sales strategies to effectively compete in this space, our ability to maintain historical growth trends could be impacted. We face significant competition from a wide variety of online content and advertising companies throughout the world. As a result, our industry is intensely competitive and has been rapidly evolving with converging technologies. We compete with many internet companies that have larger staff dedicated towards selling and advertising and have more traffic to offer potential advertisers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully, and the failure to compete successfully may have an adverse effect on our ability for future growth as well as on our results of operations and future cash flows. Significant fluctuations in financial results from quarter to quarter related to the seasonality of our business and the timing differences between marketing expenses and corresponding revenue could impact investor confidence and cause share price volatility. Our business is highly seasonal and we anticipate that this trend will persist. The majority of our travel programs and the associated revenues are delivered in June and July of each year. Counterbalancing this concentration of revenue during summer months somewhat are the limited number of travel programs delivered throughout the rest of the year and the concentration of our internet research and advertising sales during the traditional school year. While we have moved towards a year-round sales and marketing approach, the majority of sales and marketing costs have traditionally been highest in the third and fourth quarters and typically occur nine to twelve months in advance of the associated revenue, mostly recognized during the second and third quarters of the following fiscal year. Although the summer revenue has historically partially or fully offset operating losses incurred during the rest of the year, the long lead time for this revenue, creates a situation where individual quarter or annual operating results may not match expectations of public market analysts and investors. Depending on their understanding of this aspect of our business, history with our company, and confidence in forthcoming business plans, our share price could be materially and adversely affected. The market price of our common stock could also be subject to significant fluctuations due to specific market changes, such as speculation in the press or investment community, actions by institutional shareholders, general market conditions, and limited shares of common stock available for trading. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a competitive advantage or incur substantial litigation costs to protect our rights. Substantially all of our publications in the BookRags segment are protected by copyright, held either in our name, in the name of the author of the work, or in the name of the sponsoring professional society. Such copyrights protect our exclusive right to publish the work in the United States and in many countries abroad for specified periods. Our ability to obtain and continue to obtain access to existing and new content depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our results may be adversely affected by lack of adequate legal or technological protections for our intellectual property in the relevant jurisdictions and markets that we operate in. We are exposed to credit risk and interest rate risk that could affect our results of operations. A large percentage of our balance sheet consists of cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities which are exposed to concentrations of credit and interest rate risk. Although we place our cash and temporary cash investments with high credit quality institutions, at times, such balances may be in excess of the federal depository insurance limit or may be on deposit at institutions which are not covered by this insurance. If such institutions were to become insolvent while holding our cash, cash equivalents or available-for-sale securities in excess of the insurance limit, we could suffer losses or it could be necessary to obtain credit financing to operate our travel programs. Additionally, if interest rates were to fluctuate sharply, the value of our available-for-sale securities could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that we could respond timely enough to avoid losses and a swift, material change in these markets could have an adverse effect on our cash flow. -10- Failure to comply with the applicable rules and regulatory standards or maintain the security of internal or customer data, including Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data, could adversely affect our reputation and subject us to substantial fines and penalties. Our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, that are processed, summarized and reported by our various information systems and those of our service providers. The integrity and protection of all customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. We devote substantial time and incur costs to ensure proper compliance and safe guarding of such data. Our customers and employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal information and comply with the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy which is increasingly demanding. A theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer personal or credit card information, employee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and performance, and could result in significant remedial and other costs, fines and litigation. We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber-attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise. We face the risk of a security breach, whether through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. A security breach or other significant disruption involving our IT networks and related systems could cause harmful consequences: disruption of the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations; unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information, which could harm us directly and indirectly, including if others use such information to compete against us; diversion of significant management attention and resources; contractual and other claims against us; and damage to our reputation. Any or all of these consequences could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. -11- Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 