ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business and Strategy We have incurred losses since inception, and we expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We have a limited operating history and have incurred significant losses in each fiscal year since our inception, including net losses of $16.9 million, $19.1 million and $29.5 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, 23 Table of Contents respectively. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $199.3 million. These losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our selling, general and administrative expenses. We expect to continue to incur operating and net losses and negative cash flow from operations, which may increase, for the foreseeable future due in part to anticipated increases in expenses for research and product development and significant expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities. Additionally, we expect that our selling, general and administrative expenses will increase due to the additional operational and reporting costs associated with being a public company. We anticipate that our business will generate operating losses until we successfully implement our commercial development strategy and generate significant additional revenues to support our level of operating expenses. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our commercialization efforts and future product development, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, and we may never become profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability. If our products fail to achieve and sustain sufficient market acceptance, our revenue will be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market products that are recognized and accepted as reliable, enabling and cost effective. Most of our potential customers already use expensive research systems in their laboratories and may be reluctant to replace those systems. Market acceptance of our systems will depend on many factors, including our ability to convince potential customers that our systems are an attractive alternative to existing technologies. Compared to most competing technologies, our microfluidic technology is relatively new, and most potential customers have limited knowledge of, or experience with, our products. Prior to adopting our microfluidic systems, some potential customers may need to devote time and effort to testing and validating our systems. Any failure of our systems to meet these customer benchmarks could result in customers choosing to retain their existing systems or to purchase systems other than ours. In addition, many customers intend to publish the results of their experiments in scientific and medical journals. Therefore, it is important that our systems be perceived as accurate and reliable by the scientific and medical research community as a whole. Many factors influence the perception of a system including its use by leading research groups and the publication of their results in well regarded journals. Historically, a significant part of our sales and marketing efforts have been directed at convincing industry leaders of the advantages of our systems and encouraging such leaders to publish or present the results of their evaluation of our system. If we are unable to continue to induce leading researchers to use our systems or if such researchers are unable to achieve and publish or present significant experimental results using our systems, acceptance and adoption of our systems will be slowed. Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as research analysts and investors respond to these quarterly fluctuations. These fluctuations are due to numerous factors, including: fluctuations in demand for our products; changes in customer budget cycles and capital spending; seasonal variations in customer operations; tendencies among some customers to defer purchase decisions to the end of the quarter; the large unit value of our systems; changes in our pricing and sales policies or the pricing and sales policies of our competitors; our ability to design, manufacture and deliver products to our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner; quality control or yield problems in our manufacturing operations; our ability to timely obtain adequate quantities of the components used in our products; new product introductions and enhancements by us and our competitors; unanticipated increases in costs or expenses; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, in 2008 and 2009, we experienced higher sales in the fourth quarter than in the first quarter of the next fiscal year as a result of one or more of the factors described above. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our 24 Table of Contents quarterly and annual results of operations. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses are relatively fixed due to our manufacturing, research and development, and sales and general administrative efforts. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a revenue shortfall could magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. Our results of operations may not meet the expectations of research analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to expand our customer base and introduce new applications. Our customer base is primarily composed of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and Ag-Bio companies, academic institutions and life science laboratories that perform analyses for research and commercial purposes. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to increase our market share among these customers, attract additional customers outside of these markets and market new applications to existing and new customers as we develop such applications. Attracting new customers and introducing new applications requires substantial time and expense. For example, it may be difficult to identify, engage and market to customers who are unfamiliar with the current applications of our systems. In addition, certain new applications that we are considering developing are not commonly performed with conventional techniques and therefore may require additional sales efforts to create customer awareness of the utility of these applications. Any failure to expand our existing customer base or launch new applications would adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues. The life science research and Ag-Bio markets are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and we may not be able to successfully compete. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and strong price competition. We compete with both established and development stage life science research and Ag-Bio companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for gene expression analysis, genotyping, PCR, other nucleic acid detection and additional applications using well established laboratory techniques, as well as newer technologies such as bead encoded arrays, microfluidics, nanotechnology, high-throughput DNA sequencing and inkjet and photolithographic arrays. Most of our current competitors have significantly greater name recognition, greater financial and human resources, broader product lines and product packages, larger sales forces, larger existing installed bases, larger intellectual property portfolios and greater experience and scale in research and development, manufacturing and marketing than we do. For example, companies such as Affymetrix, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc., Caliper Life Sciences, Inc., Illumina, Inc., Life Technologies Corporation, Luminex Corporation, Roche Applied Science, NanoString Technologies, Inc., RainDance Technologies, Inc., Sequenom, Inc. and WaferGen Biosystems, Inc. have products that compete in certain segments of the market in which we sell our products, including gene expression analysis, genotyping and sequencing. In addition, a number of other companies and academic groups are in the process of developing novel technologies for life science markets. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. In light of these advantages, even if our technology is more effective than the product or service offerings of our competitors, current or potential customers might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our technology. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as existing companies and competitors develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. We may not be able to compete effectively against these organizations. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could harm our sales, profitability or market share. Our failure to compete effectively could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We have limited experience in marketing, selling and distributing our products, and we need to expand our direct sales and marketing force or distribution capabilities to adequately address our customers’ needs. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and distributing our products. Our BioMark and EP1 systems for genomic analysis were introduced for commercial sale in 2006 and 2008, respectively. Our Access Array system for sample preparation was introduced for commercial sale in 2009. We may not be able to market, sell and distribute our products effectively enough to support our planned growth. We sell our products primarily through our own sales force and through distributors in certain territories. Our future sales will depend in large part on our ability to develop and substantially expand our direct sales force and to increase the scope of our marketing efforts. Our products are technically complex and used for highly specialized applications. As a result, we believe it is necessary to develop a direct sales force that includes people with specific scientific backgrounds and expertise and a marketing group with technical sophistication. Competition for such employees is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel or be able to build an efficient and effective sales and marketing force, which could negatively impact sales of our products, and reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, we may continue to enlist one or more sales representatives and distributors to assist with sales, distribution and customer support globally or in certain regions of the world. If we do seek to enter into such arrangements, we may not be successful in attracting desirable sales representatives and distributors, or we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms. If our sales and marketing efforts, or those of any third-party sales representatives and distributors, are not successful, our technologies and products may not gain market acceptance, which would materially impact our business operations. Our Sales May Be Adversely Affected By Recent Events in Japan. The recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan and their aftermath have created significant economic uncertainty in that country. Sales to customers located in Japan represented approximately 8% of our product revenue in 2010 and 13% in 2009. Since the earthquake, we have noticed a significant drop in commercial activity in Japan, and we believe economic activity in the country may be disrupted for a substantial period of time. As a result, our sales in Japan may be adversely affected. Our business depends on research and development spending levels of pharmaceutical, Ag-Bio and biotechnology companies and academic, clinical and governmental research institutions and any reduction in such spending could limit our ability to sell our products. We expect that our revenue in the foreseeable future will be derived primarily from sales of our microfluidic systems and chips to academic institutions and biotechnology, Ag-Bio and pharmaceutical companies and life science laboratories worldwide. Our success will depend upon their demand for and use of our products. Accordingly, the spending policies of these customers could have a significant effect on the demand for our technology. These policies may be based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available to make purchases, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, policies regarding spending during recessionary periods and changes in the political climate. In addition, academic, governmental and other research institutions that fund research and development activities may be subject to stringent budgetary constraints that could result in spending reductions, reduced allocations or budget cutbacks, which could jeopardize the ability of these customers to purchase our system. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially due to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by these customers. For example, reductions in capital expenditures by these customers may result in lower than expected system sales and, similarly, reductions in operating expenditures by these customers could result in lower than expected sales of our microfluidic systems and chips. These reductions and delays may result from factors that are not within our control, such as: • changes in economic conditions; • changes in government programs that provide funding to research institutions and companies; 26 Table of Contents • changes in the regulatory environment affecting life science and Ag-Bio companies engaged in research and commercial activities; • differences in budget cycles across various geographies and industries; • market-driven pressures on companies to consolidate operations and reduce costs; • mergers and acquisitions in the life science and Ag-Bio industries; and • other factors affecting research and development spending. Any decrease in our customers’ budgets or expenditures or in the size, scope or frequency of capital or operating expenditures as a result of the foregoing or other factors could materially and adversely affect our operations or financial condition. We may not be able to develop new systems or enhance the capabilities of our existing microfluidic systems to keep pace with rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. Our success depends on our ability to develop new applications for our technology in existing and new markets, while improving the performance and cost effectiveness of our systems. New technologies, techniques or products could emerge that might offer better combinations of price and performance than our current or future product lines and systems. Existing markets for our products, including gene expression analysis, genotyping, digital polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, and single cell analyses, as well as potential markets for our products such as high-throughput DNA sequencing and molecular diagnostics applications, are characterized by rapid technological change and innovation. It is critical to our success for us to anticipate changes in technology and customer requirements and to successfully introduce new, enhanced and competitive technology to meet our customers’ and prospective customers’ needs on a timely basis. Developing and implementing new technologies will require us to incur substantial development costs and we may not have adequate resources available to be able to successfully introduce new applications of, or enhancements to, our systems. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain technological advantages over emerging technologies in the future. While we have planned improvements to our BioMark, EP1 and Access Array systems, we may not be able to successfully implement these improvements. If we fail to keep pace with emerging technologies, demand for our systems will not grow and may decline, and our business, revenue, financial condition and operating results could suffer materially. Even if we successfully implement some or all of these planned improvements, we cannot guarantee that our current and potential customers will find our enhanced systems to be an attractive alternative to existing technologies, including our current products. Emerging market opportunities may not develop as quickly as we expect. The application of our technologies to molecular diagnostics, single cell analysis, digital PCR and sample preparation for next generation DNA sequencing are emerging market opportunities. We believe these opportunities will take several years to develop or mature and we cannot be certain that these market opportunities will develop as we expect. Although we believe that there will be applications of our technologies in these markets, there can be no certainty of the technical or commercial success our technologies will achieve in such markets. Our success in the emerging markets of molecular diagnostics, single cell analysis, digital PCR and sample preparation for next generation DNA sequencing may depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully market and sell products using our technologies. In addition, in the case of molecular diagnostics, we will need to obtain regulatory approval for such products in the United States and in overseas markets. Our research and product development efforts may not result in commercially viable products within the timeline anticipated, if at all. Our business is dependent on the improvement of our existing products, our development of new products to serve existing markets and our development of new products to create new markets and applications that were previously not practical with existing systems. We intend to devote significant personnel and financial resources 27 Table of Contents to research and development activities designed to advance the capabilities of our microfluidic systems technology. Our technology is new and complex and the behavior of fluids and surrounding compounds in a nanoscale environment is difficult to predict in advance. Though we have developed design rules for the implementation of our technology, these are frequently revised to reflect new insights we have gained about the technology. In addition, we have discovered that biological or chemical reactions sometimes behave differently when implemented on our systems rather than in a standard laboratory environment. As a result, research and development efforts may be required to transfer certain reactions to our systems. In the past, product development projects have been significantly delayed when we encountered unanticipated difficulties in implementing a process on our systems. We may have similar delays in the future, and we may not obtain any benefits from our research and development activities. Any delay or failure by us to develop new products or enhance existing products would have a substantial adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our sales cycles are lengthy and variable, which makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and other operating results. The sales cycles for our systems are lengthy, which makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenues in a given period, and may cause revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. Due in part to the high up-front cost associated with our systems, potential customers for our systems typically need to commit significant time and resources to evaluate our technology and their decision to purchase our instruments may be further limited by budgetary constraints and several layers of internal review and approval, which are beyond our control. In addition, the novelty and complexity of our products often requires us to spend substantial time and effort assisting potential customers in evaluating our instruments, including providing demonstrations and benchmarking our products against other available technologies. Even after initial approval by appropriate decision makers, the negotiation and documentation processes for a purchase can be lengthy. As a result of these factors, our sales cycle has varied widely and, in certain instances has been longer than 12 months. The complexity and variability of our sales cycle has made it difficult for us to accurately project quarterly revenues, and we have frequently failed to meet our internal quarterly projections. Moreover, we do not recognize revenue on sales of our systems until the system has been delivered to the customer and our other revenue recognition criteria have been met. This further complicates our ability to project quarterly revenue as we may have entered into a sale agreement with a customer for a system but cannot predict when that customer will take delivery of the system and when we will be able to recognize the revenue. We expect that our sales will continue to fluctuate on a quarterly basis and that our financial results for some periods may be below those projected by securities analysts. Such fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our common stock. We may rely on strategic partnerships for research and development and commercialization purposes. We have entered into and may continue to enter into strategic partnerships, including collaborations, joint ventures and alliances with other participants in the life science, Ag-Bio and molecular diagnostics industries. For example, in 2010, we entered into a collaboration agreement in molecular diagnostics and a co-marketing agreement in next generation sequencing. If any of our strategic partners were to change their business strategies or development priorities, or encounter research and development obstacles, they may no longer be willing or able to participate in such strategic partnerships which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not control the strategic partnerships in which we participate. We may also have certain obligations, including some limited funding obligations or take or pay obligations, with regard to our strategic partnerships, joint ventures and alliances. We may be required to relinquish important rights, including intellectual property rights, and control over the development of our product candidates, assume product or other liabilities associated with the use of our products in diagnostic and other applications, agree to restrictions on the use or applications of our products, or otherwise be subject to terms unfavorable to us. 28 Table of Contents Under our collaboration agreements with Novartis Vaccines & Diagnostics, Inc., or Novartis V&D, our capabilities in digital PCR are being developed for potential in-vitro diagnostics applications, with an initial focus on the development of an NIPD test for fetal aneuploidies. These agreements provide Novartis V&D with an option to exclusively license our technology in the primary field of non-invasive testing for fetal aneuploidies and the secondary field of non-invasive testing of genetic abnormality, disease or condition in a fetus or in a pregnant woman (other than as tested in the primary field), RhD genotyping or carrier status in a pregnant woman and the genetic carrier status of a prospective mother and her male partner. Under these agreements, except with Novartis V&D, we cannot, directly or in collaboration with a third party, use, develop or sell any products or services in the primary field or the secondary field, other than for research applications in the secondary field. The agreements contain technical feasibility milestones in 2010 and 2011 and may be terminated by Novartis V&D at any time. At Novartis V&D’s option, these agreements can be extended to encompass further research, development and commercialization of our products in the primary and secondary fields described above, which could take several years or more to complete. The agreements provide that if a test is commercialized, we would supply the required systems and chips for performance of such test. Our agreements and efforts with Novartis V&D are in their early stages and are subject to numerous conditions, contingencies, development challenges, milestones, royalty and license fees, indemnification obligations, termination rights, change of control and default provisions and regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that this collaboration will lead to technology, products or services, that such technology, products or services will receive market acceptance, that we will realize any material revenue or other benefits from this collaboration or that the benefits will exceed our costs. If our facility becomes inoperable, we will be unable to continue manufacturing our products and as a result, our business will be harmed until we are able to secure a new facility. We manufacture and assemble all of our products for commercial sale at our facility in Singapore. No other manufacturing or assembly facilities are currently available to us. Our facility and the equipment we use to manufacture our products would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. The facility may be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including earthquakes, flooding and power outages, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to perform our research, development and manufacturing for some period of time. The inability to perform our research, development and manufacturing activities, combined with our limited inventory of reserve raw materials and manufactured supplies, may result in the loss of customers or harm our reputation, and we may be unable to reestablish relationships with those customers in the future. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, including the funds we raised in our initial public offering, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 18 months. However, we may need to raise substantial additional capital to: • expand the commercialization of our products; • fund our operations; and • further our research and development. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the cost of our research and development activities; • the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications; 29 Table of Contents • the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patents or violate other intellectual property rights; • the cost and timing of regulatory clearances or approvals, if any; • the cost and timing of establishing additional sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the cost and timing of establishing additional technical support capabilities; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt or additional equity financing that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets, or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our development programs. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. Any of these factors could harm our operating results. To use our products and our BioMark system in particular, customers typically need to purchase specialized reagents. Any interruption in the availability of these reagents for use in our products could limit our ability to market our products. Our products and our BioMark system in particular, must be used in conjunction with one or more reagents designed to produce or facilitate the particular biological or chemical reaction desired by the user. Many of these reagents are highly specialized and available to the user only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Our customers typically purchase these reagents directly from the suppliers, and we have no control over the supply of those materials. In addition, our products are designed to work with these reagents as they are currently formulated. We have no control of the formulation of these reagents, and the performance of our products might be adversely affected if the formulation of these reagents was changed. If one or more of these reagents were to become unavailable or were reformulated, our ability to market and sell our products could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the use of a reagent for a particular process may be covered by one or more patents relating to the reagent itself, the use of the reagent for the particular process, the performance of that process or the equipment required to perform the process. Typically, reagent suppliers, who are either the patent holders or their authorized licensees, sell the reagents along with a license or covenant not to sue with respect to such patents. The license accompanying the sale of a reagent often purports to restrict the purposes for which the reagent may be used. If a patent holder or authorized licensee were to assert against us or our customers that the license or covenant relating to a reagent precluded its use with our systems, our ability to sell and market our products could be materially and adversely affected. For example, the current applications of our BioMark system, which represented 44% of our product revenue in 2010, involve real-time polymerase chain reaction, or PCR. Leading suppliers of reagents for PCR reactions include Life Technologies and Roche Applied Science, who are our direct competitors, and their licensees. These PCR reagents are typically sold pursuant to limited licenses or 30 Table of Contents covenants not to sue with respect to patents held by these companies. We do not have any contractual supply agreements for these PCR reagents, and we cannot assure you that these reagents will continue to be available to our customers for use with our systems, or that these patent holders will not seek to enforce their patents against us, our customers, or suppliers. If we cannot provide quality technical support, we could lose customers and our operating results could suffer. The placement of our products at new customer sites, the introduction of our technology into our customers’ existing systems and ongoing customer support can be complex. Accordingly, we need highly trained technical support personnel. Hiring technical support personnel is very competitive in our industry due to the limited number of people available with the necessary biochemistry background and ability to understand our systems at a technical level. To effectively support potential new customers and the expanding needs of current customers, we will need to substantially expand our technical support staff. If we are unable to attract, train or retain the number of highly qualified technical services personnel that our business needs, our business and prospects will suffer. We are dependent on single source suppliers for some of the components and materials used in our systems, and the loss of any of these suppliers could harm our business. We rely on single source suppliers for certain components and materials used in our systems. Of these single source suppliers, the loss of any of the following would require significant time and effort to locate and qualify an alternative source of supply: • The chips used in our microfluidic systems are fabricated using a specialized polymer that is available from a limited number of sources. In the past we have encountered quality issues that have reduced our manufacturing yield or required the use of additional manufacturing processes. We do not have a long term contract with our current sole supplier. • The reader for our BioMark system requires specialized high resolution camera lenses and other components that are available from a limited number of sources. Our reliance on these suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including the following: • we may be subject to increased component costs; • we may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • our suppliers may make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy of our systems or cause delays in shipment of our systems; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. We have in the past experienced quality control and supply problems with some of our suppliers, such as manufacturing errors, and may again experience problems in the future. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers, particularly for our single source components. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products. We may experience development or manufacturing problems or delays that could limit the growth of our revenue or increase our losses. We have been manufacturing and assembling our products in significant commercial quantities since 2006, and we may encounter unforeseen situations that would result in delays or shortfalls in our production. In 31 Table of Contents addition, our production processes and assembly methods may have to change to accommodate any significant future expansion of our manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to keep up with demand for our products, our revenue could be impaired, market acceptance for our products could be adversely affected and our customers might instead purchase our competitors’ products. Our inability to successfully manufacture our products would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. All of our commercial products are manufactured at our facility in Singapore. We began commercial production of our chips in Singapore in October 2006 and have transitioned the commercial production of our microfluidic systems to Singapore as well. Production of the elastomeric block that is at the core of our chips is a complex process requiring advanced clean rooms, sophisticated equipment and strict adherence to procedures. Any contamination of the clean room, equipment malfunction or failure to strictly follow procedures can significantly reduce our yield in one or more batches. We have in the past experienced variations in yields due to such factors. Such a drop in yield can increase our cost to manufacture our chips or, in more severe cases, require us to halt the manufacture of our chips until the problem is resolved. Identifying and resolving the cause of a drop in yield can require substantial time and resources. In addition, developing a chip for a new application may require developing a specific production process for that type of chip. While all of our chips are produced using the same basic processes, significant variations may be required to ensure adequate yield of any particular type of chip. Developing such a process can be very time consuming, and any unexpected difficulty in doing so can delay the introduction of a product. Our shipments of products to customers are subject to delays or cancellation due to work stoppages or slowdowns, piracy, damage to shipping facilities caused by weather or terrorism, and congestion due to inadequacy of shipping equipment and other causes. Because all our products are manufactured at our facility in Singapore, we rely on shipping providers to deliver our products to our customers. To the extent that there are disruptions or delays in shipping our products from Singapore or off-loading our products upon arrival at their destination due to labor disputes, tariff or World Trade Organization-related disputes, piracy, physical damage to shipping facilities or equipment caused by severe weather or terrorist incidents, congestion at shipping facilities, inadequate equipment to load, dock and offload our products or energy-related tie-ups or otherwise, or for other reasons, product shipments to our customers will be delayed. Depending on the severity of such consequences, this may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to recruit and retain key executives and scientists, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel, particularly Gajus V. Worthington, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not maintain fixed term employment contracts with any of our employees. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our scientific or technical staff might significantly delay or prevent the development of our products or achievement of other business objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain significant key man life insurance on any of our employees. In addition, our research and product development efforts could be delayed or curtailed if we are unable to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees, particularly, senior scientists and engineers. To expand our research and product development efforts, we need additional people skilled in areas such as molecular and cellular biology, assay development and manufacturing. Competition for these people is intense. Because of the complex and technical nature of our system and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially harm our ability to develop and commercialize our technology. 32 Table of Contents Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets may significantly harm our revenue, profitability and results of operations. The global economy has been experiencing a significant economic downturn, and global credit and capital markets have experienced substantial volatility and disruption. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products in a timely manner or to maintain operations, which could result in a decrease in sales volume that could harm our results of operations. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and international economies may also cause our customers to reduce their purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to address liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. Significant government investment and allocation of resources to assist the economic recovery of sectors which do not include our customers may reduce the resources available for government grants and related funding for life science, Ag-Bio and molecular diagnostics research and development. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm our sales, profitability and results of operations. We may be unable to manage our anticipated growth effectively. The rapid growth of our business has placed a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. We have increased the number of our employees from 173 at December 31, 2009 to 206 at December 31, 2010. To execute our anticipated growth successfully, we must continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and manage and train them effectively. We must also upgrade our internal business processes and capabilities to create the scalability that a growing business demands. We believe our commercial manufacturing facility located in Singapore is sufficient to meet our short-term manufacturing needs. The current leases for our manufacturing facility in Singapore expire at various times from October 2011 through July 2013. In order to meet the long-term demand for our microfluidic systems, we believe that we will need to add to our existing manufacturing space in Singapore or move all of our manufacturing facilities to a new location in Singapore in 2012. Such a move will involve significant expense in connection with the establishment of new clean rooms, the movement and installation of key manufacturing equipment and modifications to our manufacturing process and we cannot assure you that such a move would not delay or otherwise adversely affect our manufacturing activities. Further, our anticipated growth will place additional strain on our suppliers and manufacturing facilities, resulting in an increased need for us to carefully monitor quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals. Demand for our technology could be reduced by legal, social and ethical concerns surrounding the use of genetic information and biological materials. Our products may be used to provide genetic information or analyze biological materials from humans, agricultural crops and other living organisms. The information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying legal, social and ethical concerns, including the genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, testing for genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions and stem cell research. Governmental authorities could, for safety, social or other purposes, call for limits on or impose regulations on the use of genetic testing or the use of certain biological materials. Such concerns or governmental restrictions could limit the use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products, although not currently subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other regulatory agencies as medical devices, could become subject to regulation in the future. Our products are currently labeled and sold to biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, and life sciences laboratories for research purposes only, and not diagnostic procedures. As a 33 Table of Contents research only products, they and are not subject to regulation as medical devices by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or comparable agencies of other countries. However, if we change the labeling of our products in the future to include diagnostic applications, our products or related applications could be subject to the FDA’s pre- and post-market regulations. For example, if we wish to label and market our products for use in performing clinical diagnostics, we would first need to obtain FDA premarket clearance or approval. Obtaining FDA clearance or approval can be expensive and uncertain, generally takes several months to years to obtain, and may require detailed and comprehensive scientific and clinical data. Notwithstanding the expense, these efforts may never result in FDA approval or clearance. Even if we were to obtain regulatory approval or clearance, it may not be for the uses we believe are important or commercially attractive. Further, FDA may expand its jurisdiction over our products or the products of our customers, which could impose restrictions on our ability to market and sell our products. For example, our customers may use our research use only products in their own laboratory developed tests, or LDTs, for clinical diagnostic use. FDA has historically exercised enforcement discretion in not enforcing the medical device regulations against LDTs. However, the FDA could assert jurisdiction over some or all LDTs, which may impact our customers’ uses of our products. A significant change in the way that the FDA regulates our products or the LDTs that our customers develop may require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance with these laws. The FDA held a meeting in July 2010, during which it indicated that it intends to reconsider its policy of enforcement discretion and to begin drafting a new oversight framework for LDTs. If the FDA imposes significant changes to the regulation of LDTs, or modifies its approach to our research use only tests which may be used by our customers for clinical use, it could reduce our revenues or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. Finally, we may be required to proactively achieve compliance with certain FDA regulations as part of our contracts with customers or as part of our collaborations with third parties. In addition, we may voluntarily seek to conform our manufacturing operations to the FDA’s good manufacturing practice regulations for medical devices, known as the Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that governs the methods and documentation covering the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of medical device products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections of registered manufacturing facilities. The failure to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of manufacturing operations, a product recall, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could in turn cause our sales and business to suffer. Our products could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us and adversely affect market adoption of our systems. Our microfluidic systems utilize novel and complex technology applied on a nanoliter scale and such systems may develop or contain undetected defects or errors. We cannot assure you that material performance problems, defects or errors will not arise, and as we increase the density and integration of our microfluidic systems, these risks may increase. While we do not provide express warranties that our microfluidic systems will meet performance expectations or be free from defects, we have done so in the past, and expect to in the future in response to customer concerns in order to preserve customer relationships and help foster continued adoption and use of our systems. We typically do provide warranties relating to other parts of our microfluidic systems. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins. In manufacturing our products, we depend upon third parties for the supply of various components. Many of these components require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If our suppliers fail to produce components to specification, or if the suppliers, or we, use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. 34 Table of Contents If our products contain defects, we may experience: • a failure to achieve market acceptance or expansion of our product sales; • loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; • damage to our brand reputation; • increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; • product recalls or replacements; • inability to attract new customers; • diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and • legal claims against us, including product liability claims, which could be costly and time consuming to defend and result in substantial damages. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues internationally and are subject to various risks relating to such international activities which could adversely affect our international sales and operating performance. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 45%, 46%, and 48%, respectively, of our product revenue was generated from sales to customers located outside of the United States. We believe that a significant percentage of our future revenue will come from international sources as we expand our overseas operations and develop opportunities in additional international areas. In addition, all of our commercial products are manufactured in Singapore. Our international business may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and regulatory conditions in foreign countries. Because the majority of our product sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our products could become more costly to the international consumer and therefore less competitive in international markets, which could affect our financial performance. In addition, if the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to the Singapore dollar, it would become more costly in U.S. dollars for us to manufacture our products in Singapore. Furthermore, fluctuations in exchange rates could reduce our revenue, particularly with respect to grant revenue under agreements in Singapore, and affect demand for our products. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: • required compliance with existing and changing foreign regulatory requirements and laws; • export or import restrictions; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • political and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges, bureaucratic requirements and other trade barriers; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and • difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property rights. If one or more of these risks occurs, it could require us to dedicate significant resources to remedy, and if we are unsuccessful in finding a solution, our financial results will suffer. 35 Table of Contents We use hazardous chemicals and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including flammables, toxics, corrosives and biologics. Our operations produce hazardous biological and chemical waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. In addition, our microfluidic systems involve the use of pressurized systems and may involve the use of hazardous materials, which could result in injury. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials. We do not currently maintain separate environmental liability coverage and any such contamination or discharge could result in significant cost to us in penalties, damages and suspension of our operations. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We first operated as a public company in February 2011. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be impaired, which could adversely affect our business and our stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, with respect to our 2011 fiscal year, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. We currently do not have an internal audit group and we will evaluate the need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Global Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Some of our programs are partially supported by government grants, which may be reduced, withdrawn, delayed or reclaimed. We have received and may continue to receive funds under research and economic development programs funded by the governments of Singapore and the United States. Funding by these governments may be significantly reduced or eliminated in the future for a number of reasons. For example, some U.S. programs are subject to a yearly appropriations process in Congress. Similarly, our grants from the Singapore government are 36 Table of Contents part of an official policy to develop a life science industry in Singapore; that policy could change or the role of grants in it could be reduced or eliminated at any time. Grant agreements currently in place with the Singaporean government are set to expire in May 2011. In addition, we may not receive funds under existing or future grants because of budgeting constraints of the agency administering the program. A restriction on the government funding available to us would reduce the resources that we would be able to devote to existing and future research and development efforts. Such a reduction could delay the introduction of new products and hurt our competitive position. Our agreements with the Singapore Economic Development Board, or EDB, provide that our continued eligibility for incentive grant payments from EDB is subject to our satisfaction of agreed upon targets for increasing levels of research, development and manufacturing activity in Singapore, including the use of local service providers, the hiring of personnel in Singapore, the incurrence of eligible expenses in Singapore, our receipt of new equity investment and our achievement of certain milestones relating to new product development or completion of specific manufacturing process objectives. These agreements further provide EDB with the right to demand repayment of a portion of past grants in the event that we did not meet our obligations under the applicable agreements. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses or NOLs to offset future taxable income. Our existing NOLs may be subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, including our initial public offering. If we undergo an ownership change, our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. We may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs reflected on our balance sheet and for this reason, we have fully reserved against the value of our NOLs on our balance sheet. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. We rely on patent protection, where appropriate and available, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our pending U.S. and foreign patent applications may not issue as patents or may not issue in a form that will be sufficient to protect our proprietary technology and gain or keep our competitive advantage. Any patents we have obtained or do obtain may be subject to re-examination, reissue, opposition or other administrative proceeding, or may be challenged in litigation, and such challenges could result in a determination that the patent is invalid or unenforceable. In addition, competitors may be able to design alternative methods or devices that avoid infringement of our patents. To the extent our intellectual property, including licensed intellectual property, offers inadequate protection, or is found to be invalid or unenforceable, we are exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. If our intellectual property does not provide adequate protection against our competitors’ products, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The patent positions of companies in the life science and Ag-Bio industries can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No 37 Table of Contents consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The laws of some non-U.S. countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. We cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: • We might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; • We might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • Others may independently develop similar or alternative products and technologies or duplicate any of our products and technologies; • It is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents, and even if they issue as patents, they may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; • We may not develop additional proprietary products and technologies that are patentable; • The patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business; and • We apply for patents covering our products and technologies and uses thereof, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important products and technologies in a timely fashion or at all. In addition to pursuing patents on our technology, we take steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, corporate partners and, when needed, our advisors. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and proprietary rights, to determine the scope, coverage and validity of others’ proprietary rights, or to defend against third party claims of intellectual property infringement that could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services or impact our stock price. Litigation may be necessary for us to enforce our patent and proprietary rights and/or to determine the scope, coverage and validity of others’ proprietary rights. Litigation on these matters has been prevalent in our industry and we expect that this will continue. To determine the priority of inventions, we may have to initiate and participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that could result in substantial legal fees and could substantially affect the scope of our patent protection. Also, our intellectual property may be subject to significant administrative and litigation proceedings such as invalidity, unenforceability, re-examination and opposition proceedings against our patents. The outcome of any litigation or other proceeding is inherently uncertain and might not be favorable to us, and we might not be able to obtain 38 Table of Contents licenses to technology that we require. Even if such licenses are obtainable, they may not be available at a reasonable cost. We could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. Further, we could encounter delays in product introductions, or interruptions in product sales, as we develop alternative methods or products. In addition, if we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity, scope and coverage of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. Our commercial success may depend in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous significant intellectual property issues have been litigated, and will likely continue to be litigated, between existing and new participants in the PCR market and competitors may assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. For example, on June 4, 2008 we received a letter from Applied Biosystems, Inc., now Life Technologies Corporation, asserting that our BioMark system for gene expression analysis infringes upon U.S. Patent No. 6,814,934, or the ‘934 patent, and its foreign counterparts in Europe and Canada. The ‘934 patent is owned by Applied Biosystems, LLC. In response to this letter, we filed suit against Applied Biosystems and Applera in federal district court in the Southern District of New York seeking declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity of the ‘934 patent. Applied Biosystems and Applera answered our complaint and asserted a counterclaim against us, alleging infringement of the ‘934 patent. Pursuant to a joint stipulation, the claims and counterclaims were dismissed on January 13, 2009, without prejudice to the parties’ claims, which can be reasserted. In addition, our competitors and others may have patents or may in the future obtain patents and claim that use of our products infringes these patents. As we move into new markets and applications for our products, incumbent participants in such markets may assert their patents and other proprietary rights against us as a means of slowing our entry into such markets or as a means to extract substantial license and royalty payments from us. Patent infringement suits can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to business operations. We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in prosecuting or defending against any claims, and may harm our reputation. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any suit initiated against us by third parties. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which could block our ability to develop, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees and costs in the event that we are found to be a willful infringer of third party patents. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which we may not be able to obtain at a reasonable cost, if at all. In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products to avoid infringing third-party patents or proprietary rights. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any required licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing our products, and the risk of a prohibition on the sale of any of our products could adversely affect our ability to grow and gain market acceptance for our products. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 39 Table of Contents In addition, our agreements with some of our suppliers, distributors, customers and other entities with whom we do business may require us to defend or indemnify these parties to the extent they become involved in infringement claims against us, including the claims described above. We could also voluntarily agree to defend or indemnify third parties in instances where we are not obligated to do so if we determine it would be important to our business relationships. If we are required or agree to defend or indemnify any of these third parties in connection with any infringement claims, we could incur significant costs and expenses that could adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. We engage in discussions regarding possible commercial, licensing and cross-licensing agreements with third parties from time to time. For example, we have engaged in such discussions with Caliper Life Sciences regarding its microfluidic patent portfolio and we have engaged in such discussions with Life Technologies regarding the ‘934 patent and other patents owned by the parties, including patents in the field of digital PCR. There can be no assurance that these discussions will lead to the execution of commercial license or cross-license agreements or that such agreements will be on terms that are favorable to us. If these discussions are successful, we could be obligated to pay license fees and royalties to such third parties. If these discussions do not lead to the execution of mutually acceptable agreements, one or more of the parties involved in such discussions could resort to litigation to protect or enforce its patents and proprietary rights or determine the scope, coverage and validity of the proprietary rights of others. In addition, if we enter into cross-licensing agreements, there is no assurance that we will be able to effectively compete against others who are licensed under our patents. We depend on certain technologies that are licensed to us. We do not control these technologies and any loss of our rights to them could prevent us from selling our products. We rely on licenses in order to be able to use various proprietary technologies that are material to our business, including our core integrated fluidic circuit and multi-layer soft lithography technologies. We do not own the patents that underlie these licenses. Our rights to use the technology we license are subject to the negotiation of, continuation of and compliance with the terms of those licenses. In some cases, we do not control the prosecution, maintenance, or filing of the patents to which we hold licenses, or the enforcement of these patents against third parties. Some of our patents and patent applications were either acquired from another company who acquired those patents and patent applications from yet another company, or are licensed from a third party. Thus, these patents and patent applications are not written by us or our attorneys, and we did not have control over the drafting and prosecution. The former patent owners and our licensors might not have given the same attention to the drafting and prosecution of these patents and applications as we would have if we had been the owners of the patents and applications and had control over the drafting and prosecution. We cannot be certain that drafting and/or prosecution of the licensed patents and patent applications by the licensors have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents and other intellectual property rights. Our rights to use the technology we license are subject to the validity of the owner’s intellectual property rights. Enforcement of our licensed patents or defense or any claims asserting the invalidity of these patents is often subject to the control or cooperation of our licensors. Legal action could be initiated against the owners of the intellectual property that we license. Even if we are not a party to these legal actions, an adverse outcome could harm our business because it might prevent these other companies or institutions from continuing to license intellectual property that we may need to operate our business. Certain of our licenses contain provisions that allow the licensor to terminate the license upon specific conditions. Our rights under the licenses are subject to our continued compliance with the terms of the license, including the payment of royalties due under the license. Termination of these licenses could prevent us from marketing some or all of our products. Because of the complexity of our products and the patents we have licensed, determining the scope of the license and related royalty obligation can be difficult and can lead to disputes between us and the licensor. An unfavorable resolution of such a dispute could lead to an increase in the royalties payable pursuant to the license. If a licensor believed we were not paying the royalties due under the 40 Table of Contents license or were otherwise not in compliance with the terms of the license, the licensor might attempt to revoke the license. If such an attempt were successful, we might be barred from producing and selling some or all of our products. We are subject to certain manufacturing restrictions related to licensed technologies that were developed with the financial assistance of U.S. governmental grants. We are subject to certain U.S. government regulations because we have licensed technologies that were developed with U.S. government grants. In accordance with these regulations, these licenses provide that products embodying the technologies are subject to domestic manufacturing requirements. If this domestic manufacturing requirement is not met, the government agency that funded the relevant grant is entitled to exercise specified rights, referred to as “march-in rights”, which if exercised would allow the government agency to require the licensors or us to grant a non-exclusive, partially exclusive or exclusive license in any field of use to a third party designated by such agency. All of our microfluidic systems revenue is dependent upon the availability of our chips, which incorporate technology developed with U.S. government grants. As of December 2010, all of our commercial products, including microfluidic systems and chips are manufactured at our facility in Singapore. The federal regulations allow the funding government agency to grant, at the request of the licensors of such technology, a waiver of the domestic manufacturing requirement. Waivers may be requested prior to any government notification. We have assisted the licensors of these technologies with the analysis of the domestic manufacturing requirement, and, in December 2008, one of the licensors applied for a waiver of the domestic manufacturing requirement with respect to certain patents. In July 2009, the funding government agency granted the requested waiver of the domestic manufacturing requirement for a three year period commencing in July 2009. If in the future it were to be determined that we are in violation of the domestic manufacturing requirement and additional waivers of such requirement were either not requested or not granted, then the U.S. government could exercise its march-in rights. In addition, these licenses contain provisions relating to compliance with this domestic manufacturing requirement. If it were determined that we are not in compliance with these provisions and such non-compliance constituted a material breach of the licenses, the licenses could be terminated. Either the exercise of march-in rights or the termination of one or more of our licenses could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our employees’ former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other life science or Ag-Bio companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain potential products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, and holders may have difficulty selling their shares. Prior to our initial public offering, there had been no public market for shares of our common stock. Our stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, but we can provide no assurance that there will be active trading on that market or any other market in the future. If there is not active trading market or if the volume of trading is limited, holders of our common stock may have difficulty selling their shares. In addition, 41 Table of Contents the trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated quarterly variation in our results of operations or the results of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of new commercial products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations for our stock; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • market conditions in the life science, Ag-Bio and molecular diagnostics sectors; • failure to complete significant sales; • manufacturing disruptions that could occur if we were unable to successfully expand our production in our current or an alternative facility; • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; • any major change to the composition of our Board or management; and • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. The stock market in general, and market prices for the securities of technology-based companies like ours in particular, have from time to time experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the underlying companies. A certain degree of stock price volatility can be attributed to being a newly public company. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In several recent situations where the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, the defense and disposition of the lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of our management and harm our operating results. If securities or industry analysts publish unfavorable research about our business or cease to cover our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock may rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control of the analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or issue other unfavorable commentary or research. If one or more equity research analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Future sales of shares could cause our stock price to decline. If stockholders holding shares of our common stock purchased prior to our public offering sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of their common stock in the public market the trading price of our common stock could decline. As of February 15, 2011 we had outstanding a total of 19,938,754 shares of common stock of which only the 6,392,083 shares of common stock sold in our public offering are currently freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. Each of our directors and officers, and certain of our stockholders, has entered into lock-up agreements with the underwriter of our initial public offering that restrict their ability to sell or transfer their shares. The lock-up agreements pertaining to our public offering are in effect through August 8, 2011, although they may be extended for up to an additional 34 days under certain 42 Table of Contents circumstances. Our underwriters, however, may, in their sole discretion, permit our officers, directors and other current stockholders who are subject to the contractual lock-up to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. After the lock-up agreements expire, based on shares outstanding as of February 15, 2011, up to an additional 13,546,671 shares of common stock will be eligible for sale in the public market, 2,354,862 of which are held by directors and executive officers and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act and various vesting agreements. In addition, 2,151,288 shares of common stock that are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options as of February 15, 2011 will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, the lock-up agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our directors and executive officers will continue to have substantial control over and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. As of February 15, 2011, our current executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially owned or controlled approximately 14.82% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, can have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management, including provisions that: • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of the board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President; • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered three year terms; • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; • specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and • require a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above-mentioned provisions. 43 Table of Contents These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. We have broad discretion in the use of the net proceeds from our initial public offering and may not use them effectively. We have broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our initial public offering and could spend the proceeds in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock. We intend to use the net proceeds from our initial public offering for sales and marketing activities, including expansion of our sales force to support the ongoing commercialization of our products; for research and product development activities; for facilities improvements and the purchase of manufacturing and other equipment; and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may also use a portion of our net proceeds to acquire and invest in complementary products, technologies or businesses; however, we currently have no agreements or commitments to complete any such transaction. We have not allocated these net proceeds for any specific purposes. We might not be able to yield a significant return, if any, on any investment of these net proceeds. Stockholders will not have the opportunity to influence our management’s decisions on how to use the net proceeds, and our failure to apply the funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, delay the development of our product candidates and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, have contractual restrictions against paying cash dividends and currently intend to retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be stockholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 