Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business has many risks. Factors that could materially affect our business, financial position, operating results or liquidity and the trading price of our units are described below. This information should be considered carefully, together with other information in this report and other reports and materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We are subject to the volatility of the global oil and gas industry and our business is likely to fluctuate with the level of global activity for oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Our business depends on the oil and natural gas industry and particularly on the level of activity for oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Demand for our remote communication services and collaborative applications depends on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the regions in which we operate or may operate. Our business will suffer if these expenditures decline. Our customers’ willingness to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas depends largely upon prevailing market conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: • the supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • oil and natural gas prices and expectations about future prices; • the expected rate of decline in production; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to influence and maintain production levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas of the Middle East and other crude oil and natural gas producing regions or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere; • the impact of changing regulations and environmental and safety rules and policies, including changes to regulations, rules and policies, following oil spills and other pollution by the oil and gas industry, and legislative and regulatory interest to limit or further regulate drilling and hydraulic fracturing activities; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the global economic environment; • the political and legislative framework governing the activities of oil and natural gas companies; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. The level of activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry has historically been volatile and cyclical. Although we believe our customers will be dependent upon real-time voice and data communication services and systems integration solutions to optimize their oil and gas production and development in an environment with lower energy prices, a prolonged significant reduction in the price of oil and natural gas will likely affect oil and natural gas production levels and therefore affect demand for the communication services and systems integration solutions we provide. In addition, a prolonged significant reduction in the price of oil and natural gas could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding account receivables from our customers. A material decline in oil and natural gas prices or oil and natural gas exploration, development or production activity levels could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our industry is highly competitive and if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. The telecommunications industry is generally highly competitive, and we expect both product and pricing competition to persist and intensify. Increased competition could cause reduced revenue, price reductions, reduced profits and loss of market share. Our industry is characterized by competitive pressures to provide enhanced functionality for the same or lower price with each new generation of technology. As the prices of our products decrease, we will need to sell more products and/or reduce the per-unit costs to improve or maintain our results of operations. Our primary global competitors include Harris Corporation’s Harris CapRock Communications and elements of the enterprise segment of Inmarsat plc’s Inmarsat Solutions, as well as many regional competitors. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial and other resources for developing new solutions as well as for recruiting and retaining qualified personnel. Their greater financial resources may also make them better able to withstand downturns in the market, expand into new areas more aggressively or operate in developing markets without immediate financial returns. In addition, in certain markets outside of the U.S., we face competition from local competitors that provide their services at a lower price due to lower overhead costs, including lower costs of complying with applicable government regulations, and due to their willingness to provide services for a lower profit margin. Strong competition and significant investments by competitors to develop new and better solutions may make it difficult for us to maintain our customer base, force us to reduce our prices or increase our costs to develop new solutions. Furthermore, competition may emerge from companies that we have previously not perceived as competitors or consolidation of our industry may cause existing competitors to become bigger and stronger with more resources, market awareness and market share. As we expand into new markets and geographic regions we may experience increased competition from some of our competitors that have prior experience or other business in these markets or geographic regions. In addition, some of our customers may decide to insource some of the communications services and managed services solutions that we provide, in particular our terrestrial communication services (e.g., terrestrial line-of-sight transport, microwave, Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, or WiMax), which do not require the same level of maintenance and support as our other services. Our success will depend on our ability to adapt to these competitive forces, to adapt to technological advances, to develop more advanced products more rapidly and less expensively than our competitors, to continue to develop and deepen our global sales and business development network, and to educate potential customers about the benefits of using our solutions rather than our competitors’ products and services or in sourced solutions. Our failure to successfully respond to these competitive challenges could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and if we fail to keep up with these changes or if access to telecommunications in remote locations becomes easier or less expensive, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The communications industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology, new evolving standards, emerging competition and frequent new product and service introductions. As an example of technological change, some remote communications providers are exploring the use of Ka-band satellite service, compared to our use of the Ku-band and C-band satellite space segment today. When this Ka-band service is made available, which is expected to be in late 2013 and early 2014, we may have to adapt to its use, contracting with other satellite operators, which might impair our business if other providers are more successful in using Ka-band services to meet customer needs than us. This represents just one example of a technological change that could impact our business. Our future business prospects largely depend on our ability to meet changing customer preferences, to anticipate and respond to technological changes and to develop competitive products. If telecommunications to remote locations becomes more readily accessible or less expensive than our services, our business will suffer. New disruptive technologies could make our VSAT-based networks or other services obsolete or less competitive than they are today, requiring us to reduce the prices that we are able to charge for our services or causing us to undergo expensive transitions to new transport technologies. We may not be able to successfully respond to new technological developments and challenges or identify and respond to new market opportunities, services or products offered by competitors. In addition, our efforts to respond to technological innovations and competition may require significant capital investments and resources. Furthermore, we may not have the necessary resources to respond to new technological changes and innovations and emerging competition. Failure to keep up with future technological changes could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our potential clients are resistant to new solutions and technologies which may limit our growth. Although there is a strong focus on technology development within the oil industry, some of the companies in the upstream oil and gas industry are relatively conservative and risk averse with respect to adopting new solutions and technologies in the area of remote communications due to our services being so integral to highly-complex drilling, completion and production operations. Some drilling contractors, oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies may choose not to adopt new solutions and technology, such as our remote communications and collaboration applications solutions, which may limit our growth potential. The market for IP/MPLS based communication services is in a relatively early stage, and some oil and gas companies may choose not to adopt our IP/ MPLS based communications technology. This may in turn limit our growth. 15 Table of Contents Our information systems and network are protected by certain security measures, and in the event that the security measures are not adequate, our systems may be damaged which could harm our business. We have in place layered security systems designed to protect against intentional or unintentional disruption, failure, misappropriation or corruption of our network and information systems. A problem of this type might be caused by events such as computer hacking, computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, “cyber-attacks” and other malicious activity, as well as natural disasters, power outages, terrorist attacks and similar events. Such events could have an adverse impact on us and our customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to our plant, equipment and data. In addition, our future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential customer data or intellectual property. Operational or business delays may result from the disruption of network or information systems and the subsequent remediation activities. Moreover, these events may create negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with customers. We have expended, and expect to continue to spend in the future, amounts we consider appropriate to protect our network and information systems; however, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent any of the problems identified above. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks and any unauthorized access to our clients’ data or systems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully obtain or use information on the network or cause interruptions, delays or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. In addition, our customer contracts, in general, do not contain provisions which would protect us against liability to third-parties with whom our customers conduct business. Although we have implemented and intend to continue to implement industry standard security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower system availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue and earnings are largely dependent on the award of new contracts that we do not directly control. A substantial portion of our revenue and earnings is generated from large-scale and increasingly international project awards. The timing of when project awards will be made is unpredictable and largely outside of our control. We operate in highly competitive markets where it is difficult to predict whether and when we will receive awards since these awards and projects often involve complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes. These processes can be impacted by a wide variety of factors including financing contingencies, commodity prices and overall market and economic conditions. In addition, we may not win contracts that we have bid upon due to price, a client’s perception of our ability to perform and/or perceived technology advantages held by others. In these highly competitive times, many of our competitors may be more inclined to take greater or unusual risks or terms and conditions in a contract that we might not deem market or acceptable. Because a significant portion of our revenue is generated from large projects, our results of operations can fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on whether and when project awards occur and the commencement and progress of work under awarded contracts. As a result, we are subject to the risk of losing new awards to competitors or the risk that revenue may not be derived from awarded projects as quickly as anticipated. Many of our contracts with customers may be terminated by our customers on short notice without penalty, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customers may switch service providers without incurring significant expense relative to the annual cost of the service, and our agreements generally provide that in the event of prolonged loss of service or for other good reasons, our customers may terminate service without penalty. In addition, many of our customer agreements may be terminated by our customers for no reason and upon short notice. Terms of customer agreements typically vary with a range from call out work to three years, with some customer agreement terms as long as five years, and work orders placed under such agreements may have shorter terms than the relevant customer agreement. As a result, we may not be able to retain our customers through the end of the terms specified in the customer agreements. If we are not able to retain our customers, we would not receive expected revenues and may continue to incur costs, such as costs to secure satellite bandwidth for such customers under agreements with third party satellite communication services providers which may not be as easily or as quickly terminated without penalty, resulting in harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of a drilling contractor customer site can limit or eliminate our ability to provide services to other customers on the affected drilling rigs. 16 Table of Contents Most of our contracts are on a fixed price basis and if our costs increase, we may not be able to recover these cost increases. Most of our contracts provide for a fixed price per month for our services. If our costs increase to provide those services, such as the cost to secure bandwidth or personnel costs, we may not be able to offset some or all of our increased costs by increasing the rates we charge our customers until our next contract renewal, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the Operations Agreement of SOIL could negatively affect financial results we recognize from our SOIL Operations. The North Sea consortium of companies who collectively oversee SOIL have contracted with us to operate this private extranet for them. This North Sea consortium of companies may find alternatives to the SOIL service that could cause them to terminate or not renew the current SOIL service with us. If the consortium of companies choose to eliminate the SOIL service, find an alternative communications solution, or if they contract with another provider to manage SOIL operations, our business would be harmed. New capital investments may be required to improve and expand the SOIL services in such areas as video and hosting services to avoid a drop in our SOIL revenues and enhance our ability to expand the SOIL services geographically. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue or profits. Under our accounting procedures, we measure and recognize a large portion of our telecommunication systems integration profits and revenue under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. This methodology allows us to recognize revenue and profits ratably over the life of a contract by comparing the amount of the cost incurred to date against the total amount of cost expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenue and estimated cost is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated, and these revisions can occur at any time and could be material. We compete for satellite capacity for our services and any capacity constraints could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete for satellite capacity with a number of commercial entities, such as broadcasting companies, and governmental entities, such as the military. In certain markets, the availability and pricing of capacity could be subject to competitive pressure, such as during renewals, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure the capacity needed to conduct our operations at current rates or levels going forward. This could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In certain markets, the availability of bandwidth may be restricted by the local government when needed to support its military, and in the event of such an action, there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure the capacity needed to conduct our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties to provide products and services for the operation of our business. Failures by third party providers could harm our business and reputation and result in loss of customers and revenue. A significant part of our operations and growth depends on third party providers delivering reliable communications connections, networks, equipment, maintenance, repair and satellite transponder capacity, subjecting our business, reputation and customer revenue to risks beyond our control, such as: • telecommunications failures; • saturation of communication connection points, networks and third-party facilities • in-orbit risks for satellites including malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris; • satellite manufacturing or control system errors ; 17 Table of Contents • lack of communication service alternatives; • providing access to faulty equipment; • human error; • natural disasters; • unexpected equipment failure; • power loss; • labor strikes or work stoppages; • unauthorized access or security risks; and • sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism. Under most of our contracts with satellite service providers, our satellite service providers do not indemnify us for such loss or damage to our business resulting from certain risks, including satellite failures. If any potential claims result in liabilities, we could be required to pay damages or other penalties, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we take precautions, the occurrence of any of these risks or other unanticipated problems arising from third party services could result in interruption in the services we provide to customers. Any of these occurrences could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we rely upon and expect to continue to rely upon a limited number of third-party suppliers to supply the equipment required to provide our services, such as the equipment we install on offshore drilling rigs in order to provide remote communication services. Although this equipment is commercially available from more than one supplier, there are a limited number of suppliers of such equipment and price and quality vary among suppliers. If the suppliers enter into competition with us, or if our competitors enter into exclusive or restrictive arrangements with our suppliers, the availability and pricing of the equipment that we purchase could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we like to use a small group of suppliers and standardized equipment as much as possible so that we are installing generally the same equipment and we can maintain smaller quantities of replacement parts and equipment in our warehouses. If we have to change suppliers for any reason, we will incur additional costs due to the lack of uniformity and need to warehouse a broader array of replacement parts and equipment. Further, significant portions of the work performed under our systems integration contracts, is reliant upon third-party suppliers for equipment and materials. If the amounts we are required to pay for equipment and supplies exceed what we have estimated, especially in a fixed-price systems integration contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a supplier fails to provide supplies or equipment as required under a negotiated contract for any reason, or provides supplies or equipment that are not an acceptable quality, we may be required to source those supplies or equipment on a delayed basis or at a higher price than anticipated, which could impact contract profitability. In addition, faulty equipment or materials could impact the overall project, resulting in claims against us for failure to meet required project specifications. These risks may be intensified if these suppliers experience financial difficulties or find it difficult to obtain sufficient financing to fund their operations or access to bonding, and are not able to provide the materials or supplies necessary for our business. In addition, in instances where we rely on a single contracted supplier or a small number of contracted suppliers, there can be no assurance that the marketplace can provide these products in a timely basis, or at the costs we had anticipated. A failure by a supplier to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations could negatively impact our business. Any failure on our part to perform under our customer service contracts due to the failures of our third party providers could result in: (i) loss of revenue despite continued obligations under our leasing arrangements; (ii) possible cancellation of customer contracts; (iii) incurrence of additional expenses to reposition customer antennas to alternative satellites or otherwise find alternate service (iv) breach of contract claims; and (v) damage to our reputation, which could negatively affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new business. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could compromise our ability to effectively manage our business and pursue our growth strategy. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, development, sales, services and management personnel. In particular, we are heavily dependent on the following two key employees: our Chief Executive Officer and President, who has been critical to establishing our strategy and executing on our business model over the past five years; and our Vice President of Business Services, who is the technical architect of our global network and who is responsible for our global network’s reliability, performance and security and the evaluation of technological developments and their impact on our business. The loss of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be costly and time consuming, could cause additional disruptions to our business, and could be unsuccessful. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our employees. 18 Table of Contents Our future success also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, development, sales, services and management personnel, including personnel in all of the various regions of the world in which we operate. The current increase in the activity level in the oil and gas industry and the limited supply of skilled labor has made the competition to retain and recruit qualified personnel intense. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could reduce our skilled labor force, increase the wages that we must pay to motivate, retain or recruit skilled employees or both. In addition, wage inflation and the cost of retaining our key personnel in the face of competition for such personnel may increase our costs faster than we may offset these costs with increased prices or increased sales volume. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from two customers and the loss of either of these customers would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We receive a significant part of our revenue from a relatively small number of large customers. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Noble Corporation and Ensco plc represented approximately 11.6% and 6.1%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. Similarly, for the year ended December 31, 2011, these two significant customers, Noble Corporation and Ensco plc, represented approximately 12.0% and 5.9%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. If a material customer terminates or significantly reduces its business with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. Bad weather in the Gulf of Mexico or other areas where we operate could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico and other areas in which our clients operate experience unfavorable weather conditions, including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions, on a relatively frequent basis. A major storm or threat of a major storm in these areas may harm our business. Our clients’ drilling rigs, production platforms and other vessels in these areas are susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms, which may cause them to no longer need our communication services. Our equipment on these rigs, platforms or vessels could be damaged causing us to have service interruptions and lose business. Even the threat of a very large storm will sometimes cause our clients to limit activities in an area and thus harm our business. To the extent that changes in climate cause more turbulent weather, any increase in unfavorable weather conditions could impair satellite connectivity, cause more sites to be shut down and generally cause activities to be limited so that our business may be harmed. Any loss of a rig on which our equipment is located will likely lead to a complete loss of our equipment on that rig and a loss of the revenue related to that rig. At the commencement of a new service contract for a rig, we generally install approximately $100,000 to $400,000 worth of equipment on each offshore drilling rig. If a rig were to sink or incur substantial damage for any reason, we would most likely lose all of our equipment. We do not insure for such losses as we believe the cost of such insurance outweighs the risk of potential loss. In addition to the loss of the equipment, we would likely lose the revenue related to that rig under the terms of most of our existing contracts. Also, we may be committed to paying the costs to secure satellite bandwidth for that rig under agreements with third party satellite communication providers even after the rig is no longer in service. Losses of rigs can occur as a result of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fire or sinking. Such catastrophic events can occur without notice, but have historically been infrequent. Changes in the regulatory framework under which we operate could adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations. Our U.S. services are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are therefore subject to light or no regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and other federal, state and local agencies. As a private carrier, we may not market and provide telecommunications service to the general public or otherwise hold our services out “indifferently” to the public as a common carrier. As a private carrier, we are not entitled to certain rights afforded to or subject to certain obligations imposed on common carriers. 19 Table of Contents However, the FCC or one or more state public utility commissions could determine that our services or the services of our subsidiaries and/or affiliates constitute common carrier offerings subject to Title II of the Communications Act, associated FCC regulations, and similar state laws. Among other things, common carriers must offer service on a nondiscriminatory basis at just and reasonable rates. The FCC and state public utility commissions have jurisdiction to hear complaints regarding the compliance or non-compliance with these and other common carrier requirements of the Communications Act and the FCC’s rules, and similar state laws. If our services or the services provided by our subsidiaries or affiliates are found to be provided on a common carrier basis, we may be subject to significant costs to ensure compliance with the applicable provisions of these laws and regulations. We may be subject to enforcement actions including, but not limited to, fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties if we fail to comply with those requirements. Our international operations are regulated by various non-U.S. governments and international bodies. These regulatory regimes frequently require that we maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. The adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. VoIP services that permit subscribers to send calls to and receive calls from the traditional telephone network, known as interconnected VoIP services, are generally subject to the regulatory authority of the FCC and certain regulatory requirements. We do not believe that the voice services that we currently provide were intended by the FCC to be considered “interconnected VoIP.” However, the FCC could determine that our services or the services of our subsidiaries and/or affiliates constitute interconnected VoIP, which could subject such services to a number of regulatory requirements including obligations to pay into the Universal Service Fund, accommodate the needs of disabled persons, protect customer proprietary network information, provide E911 services, etc. We cannot predict whether the FCC may classify our VoIP services as interconnected VoIP, and if so, what other regulatory obligations, if any, will be imposed on our VoIP services or interconnected VoIP services generally. To the extent that our services or the services provided by our subsidiaries or affiliates are deemed to be interconnected VoIP services, we may be subject to significant costs to ensure compliance with the applicable FCC requirements governing the provision of those services. Further, we may be subject to enforcement actions including, but not limited to, fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties if we fail to comply with those requirements. If we infringe or if third parties assert that we infringe third party intellectual property rights we could incur significant costs and incur significant harm to our business. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, which could result in substantial damages if it is ultimately determined that our services infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. Even if claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management’s attention from our other business concerns. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any failure or inability to sufficiently protect them could harm our business and our operating results. We own, and maintain certain intellectual property assets, including copyrights and trademarks, trade secrets, and rights to certain domain names, which we believe are collectively among our most valuable assets. We seek to protect our intellectual property assets through the laws of the U.S. and other countries of the world, and through contractual provisions. However, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights might not be sufficient or effective at stopping unauthorized use of those rights. Protection of the distinctive elements of RigNet might not always be available under copyright law or trademark law, or we might not discover or determine the full extent of any unauthorized use of our copyrights and trademarks in order to protect our rights. In addition, effective trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret protection might not be available or cost-effective in every country in which our products and services are distributed. With respect to maintaining our trade secrets, we have entered into confidentiality agreements with most of our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with many of the parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. However, these agreements might be breached and our trade secrets might be compromised by outside parties or by our employees, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage provided by maintaining our trade secrets. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our intellectual property assets may be reduced. In addition, protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our operating results. 20 Table of Contents We may be subject to a variety of regulatory actions that may affect our ability to operate. Telecommunications regulators have the right to sanction a service provider or to revoke licenses if a service provider violates applicable laws or regulations. If any regulatory agency were to conclude that we were providing telecommunications services without the appropriate authority or are otherwise not in compliance with applicable regulations, the agency could initiate enforcement actions, which could result in, among other things, revocation of authority, the imposition of fines, a requirement to disgorge revenues, or refusal to grant regulatory authority necessary for the future provision of services. Our international operations are subject to additional or different risks than our United States operations, which may harm our business and financial results. We operate in over 30 countries around the world, including countries in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Europe and intend to continue to expand the number of countries in which we operate. There are many risks inherent in conducting business internationally that are in addition to or different than those affecting our United States operations, including: • sometimes vague and confusing regulatory requirements that may be subject to unexpected changes or interpretations; • import and export restrictions; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulty in staffing and managing geographically dispersed operations and culturally diverse work forces and increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • differences in employment laws and practices among different countries, including restrictions on terminating employees; • differing technology standards; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • imposition of currency exchange controls; • potential political and economic instability in some regions; • legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business; • less due process and sometimes arbitrary application of laws and sanctions, including criminal charges and arrests; • difficulties in raising awareness of applicable United States laws to our agents and third party intermediaries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting receivables; • difficulties and expense of maintaining international sales distribution channels; and • difficulties in maintaining and protecting our intellectual property. Operating internationally exposes our business to increased regulatory and political risks in some non-U.S. jurisdictions where we operate. In addition to changes in laws and regulations, changes in governments or changes in governmental policies in these jurisdictions may alter current interpretation of laws and regulations affecting our business. We also face increased risk of incidents such as war or other international conflict and nationalization, and possible expropriation of our assets. If a non-U.S. country were to nationalize our industry or expropriate our assets, we could lose not only our investment in the assets that we have in that country, but also all of our contracts and business in that country. Many of the countries in which we operate have legal systems that are less developed and less predictable than legal systems in Western Europe or the United States. It may be difficult for us to obtain effective legal redress in the courts of some jurisdictions, whether in respect of a breach of law or regulation, or in an ownership dispute because of: (i) a high degree of discretion on the part of governmental authorities, which results in less predictability; (ii) a lack of judicial or administrative guidance on interpreting applicable rules and regulations; (iii) inconsistencies or conflicts between or within various laws, regulations, decrees, orders and resolutions; (iv) the relative inexperience of the judiciary and courts in such matters or (v) a predisposition in favor of local claimants against United States companies. 21 Table of Contents In certain jurisdictions, the commitment of local business people, government officials and agencies and the judicial system to abide by legal requirements and negotiated agreements may be unreliable. In particular, agreements may be susceptible to revision or cancellation and legal redress may be uncertain or time-consuming. Actions of governmental authorities or officers may adversely affect joint ventures, licenses, license applications or other legal arrangements, and such arrangements in these jurisdictions may not be effective or enforced. The authorities in the countries where we operate may introduce additional regulations for the oil and gas and communications industries with respect to, but not limited to, various laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use, labor standards, occupational health network access and other matters. New rules and regulations may be enacted or existing rules and regulations may be applied or interpreted in a manner which could limit our ability to provide our services. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities in the oil and gas industry and telecommunications industry could harm our operations and financial results. Compliance with and changes in tax laws or adverse positions taken by taxing authorities could be costly and could affect our operating results. Compliance related tax issues could also limit our ability to do business in certain countries. Changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various taxing authorities, disagreements with taxing authorities over our tax positions and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. Export Control Laws that have stringent compliance standards for us. We are subject to a number of applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States as well as comparable laws of other countries. We cannot provide services to certain countries subject to United States trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Asset Control of the United States Department of the Treasury or the United States Department of Commerce unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations. If our customers move their sites into countries subject to certain sanctions, we may not be able to serve them, in which case, our revenues will be adversely impacted and we may have additional costs incurred as well. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act that, generally, prohibits bribes or unreasonable gifts to non-U.S. governments or officials and may be subject to anti-corruption laws of other countries in which the Company may operate or may otherwise have a substantial business connection. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, and more extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. In certain countries, we engage third party agents or intermediaries to act on our behalf in dealings with government officials, such as customs agents, and if these third party agents or intermediaries violate applicable laws, their actions may result in penalties or sanctions being assessed against us. Many of our contracts are governed by the laws of countries that may make them difficult or expensive to interpret or enforce. Many of our contracts are governed by the laws of countries other than the U. S., which may create both legal and practical difficulties in case of a dispute or conflict. We operate in regions where the ability to protect contractual and other legal rights may be limited. In addition, having to pursue arbitration or litigation in some countries may be more difficult or expensive than pursuing litigation in the United States. We may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for our provision of telecommunication services, and we may face changes in regulation, each of which could adversely affect our operations. In a number of countries where we operate, the provision of telecommunication services is highly regulated. In such countries, we are required to obtain approvals from national and local authorities in connection with most of the services that we provide. In many jurisdictions, we must maintain such approvals through compliance with license conditions or payment of annual regulatory fees. 22 Table of Contents Many of our customers utilize our services on mobile vessels or drilling platforms that may enter into new countries on short notice. If we do not already have a license to provide our service in that country, we may be required to obtain a license or other regulatory approval on short notice, which may not be feasible in some countries. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various sanctions including fines, penalties, arrests or criminal charges, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations or cause us to delay or terminate our service to such vessel or platform until such license or regulatory approval may be obtained. In some areas of international waters, it is ambiguous as to which country’s regulations apply, if any, and thus difficult and costly for us to determine which licenses or other regulatory approvals we should obtain. In such areas, we could be subject to various penalties or sanctions if we fail to comply with the applicable country’s regulations. Future changes to the regulations under which we operate could make it difficult for us to obtain or maintain authorizations, increase our costs or make it easier or less expensive for our competitors to compete with us. Changes to the FCC’s USF Regime or state universal service fund regimes or findings that we have not complied with USF requirements or state universal service fund regimes may adversely affect our financial condition. A proceeding pending before the FCC has the potential to significantly alter our Universal Service Fund, or USF, contribution obligations. The FCC is considering changing the basis upon which USF contributions are determined from a revenue percentage measurement, as well as increasing the breadth of the USF contribution base to include certain services now exempt from contribution. Adoption of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our costs of providing service, our ability to separately list USF contributions on end-user bills, and our ability to collect these fees from our customers. We are unable to predict the timing or outcome of this proceeding. We cannot predict the application and impact of changes to the federal or state universal service fund contribution requirements on the communications industry generally and on certain of our business activities in particular. We recently assessed the nature and extent of our federal and state universal service fund obligations. If the FCC or any state determines that we have incorrectly calculated or failed to remit any required universal service fund contribution, we could be subject to the assessment and collection of past due remittances as well as interest and penalties thereon. Changes in the federal or state universal service fund requirements or findings that we have not met our obligations could materially increase our universal service fund contributions and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. We have experienced rapid growth in our business in recent periods, which has strained our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We plan to continue to grow our business and anticipate that continued growth of our operations will be required to satisfy increasing customer demand and avail ourselves of new market opportunities. Further, we will continue to pursue organic growth opportunities in targeted adjacent upstream energy segments and other remote communications market adjacencies, as well as, expanding our competitive market position through strategic acquisitions. The expanding scope and geographic breadth of our business and growth in the number of our employees, customers and locations will continue to place a significant strain on our management team, information technology systems and other resources and may distract key personnel from other key operations. To properly manage our growth, we may need to hire and retain personnel, upgrade our existing operational, management and financial reporting systems, and improve our business processes and controls and implement those processes and controls in all of our geographic locations. In the event that our employees become involved with due diligence on acquisitions or with the integration of new companies acquired, the increased demands on our employees could detract from and be harmful to our existing business. Failure to effectively manage our growth in a cost-effective manner could result in declines in service quality and customer satisfaction, increased costs or disruption of our operations. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult for us to adequately predict the investments we will need to make in the future to effectively manage our world-wide operations. 23 Table of Contents Acquisitions, such as our recent acquisition of Nessco, bring new risks that could adversely affect our business and operations. We may acquire businesses, assets, technologies or products to enhance our business in the future if appropriate opportunities become available. In connection with any future acquisitions, we could: • issue additional equity securities which would dilute our current stockholders; • incur substantial debt to fund the acquisitions; or • assume significant liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and other liabilities, diversion of management’s attention from our core business, adverse effects on existing business relationships with current and/or prospective partners, customers and/or suppliers, risks associated with entering markets and business lines in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, assets, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future without a significant expenditure of operating, financial and management resources, if at all. The integration process could divert management time from focusing on operating our business, result in a decline in employee morale and cause retention issues to arise from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business. Acquisitions may also require us to record goodwill, non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may acquire companies that have insufficient internal financial controls, which could impair our ability to integrate the acquired company and adversely impact our financial reporting. If we fail in our integration efforts with respect to any of our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Growth in strategic initiatives, emergence into new or adjacent market segments or the addition of strategic acquisitions may result in reduced consolidated financial margins. As we continue to pursue organic growth opportunities in targeted adjacent upstream energy segments and other remote communications market adjacencies, as well as, expanding our competitive market position through strategic acquisitions, financial margins for these new operations may be less than our current operations. The consolidation of these financial margins could result in reduced margins on a consolidated level. We may need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy or continue our operations, and if we are unable to do so, our growth may be impaired. We plan to pursue a growth strategy. We have made significant investments to grow our business. Additional investments will be required to pursue further growth and to respond to technological innovations and competition. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain additional financing or financing on favorable terms. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, or at all, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Our term loan agreement places financial restrictions and operating restrictions on our business, which may limit our flexibility to respond to opportunities and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our term loan agreement restricts and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our term loan agreement restricts our ability to: • dispose of property; • enter into a merger, consolidate or acquire capital in other entities; • incur additional indebtedness; • incur liens on the property secured by the term loan agreement; • make certain investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • pay cash dividends; 24 Table of Contents • commit to make capital expenditures not in the ordinary course of business; and • enter into sales and lease back transactions. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. Our term loan agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our compliance with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures, finance acquisitions, equipment purchases and development expenditures, or withstand a future downturn in our business. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our term loan agreement may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our term loan agreement, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, that financing may not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. If we are unable to repay amounts borrowed, the holders of the debt could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding against the collateral. In addition, our obligations under our term loan agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our term loan agreement, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. If we experience delays and/or defaults in client payments, we could suffer liquidity problems or we could be unable to recover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our contracts, we sometimes commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from the client in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures as they are incurred. In difficult economic times, some of our clients may find it increasingly difficult to pay invoices for our services timely, increasing the risk that our accounts receivable could become uncollectible and ultimately be written off. Delays in client payments may require us to make a working capital investment, which could impact our cash flows and liquidity. If a client fails to pay invoices on a timely basis or defaults in making its payments on a project in which we have devoted significant resources, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets; • repatriation of cash; or • expiration or non-utilization of net operating losses or credits. We conduct our worldwide operations through various subsidiaries. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate, including treaties between the United States and other nations. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, including those in and involving the United States, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. In addition, tax returns filed are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Outcomes from these continuous examinations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and limitations on the expatriation or conversion of currencies, which may result in significant financial charges, increased costs of operations or decreased demand for our products and services. During the year ended December 31, 2012, 31.9% of our revenues were earned in non-U.S. currencies, while a significant portion of our capital and operating expenditures and all of our outstanding debt, was priced in U.S. dollars. In addition, we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our earnings or the value of our assets. In the future, a greater portion of our revenues may be earned in non-U.S. currencies, increasing this risk of fluctuations in exchange rates. Any depreciation of local currencies in the countries in which we conduct business may result in increased costs to us for imported equipment and may, at the same time, decrease demand for our products and services in the affected markets. If our operating companies distribute dividends in local currencies in the future, the amount of cash we receive will also be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. In addition, some of the countries in which we have operations do or may restrict the expatriation or conversion of currency. We have not implemented any hedging strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies, not every exposure can be hedged, and, where hedges are put in place based on expected non-U.S. exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts which may vary or which may later prove to have been inaccurate. Failure to hedge successfully or anticipate currency risks accurately could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our stockholders could together exert control over our Company. As of March 1, 2013, funds associated with Cubera Secondary (GP) AS, or Cubera, owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 25.8% of our outstanding voting power. Additionally, as of March 1, 2013, funds affiliated with Altira Group LLC, or Altira, owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 13.6% of our outstanding voting power. As a result, these stockholders could together potentially have significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third-party to pursue a takeover attempt we oppose even if a change in control of our Company would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. In our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Company, or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting shares, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. However, because funds affiliated with Altira, Cubera and Sanders Morris Harris Inc. acquired their shares prior to the IPO, Section 203 is currently inapplicable to any business combination or transaction with them or their affiliates. Our bylaws require that any stockholder proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors must meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. 26 Table of Contents We have a small market capitalization and lower trading volume compared to most publicly trading companies. If, due to our size, securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts covering our business downgrade their evaluations of or recommendations regarding our stock, or if one or more of the analysts cease providing research coverage on our stock due to our small market capitalization or low trading volume, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease providing research coverage on our stock, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Future adjustments to contingent purchase price related to acquisitions could materially affect our results. From time to time we acquire companies with a component of the purchase consideration being delayed and the payment thereof contingent on certain performance or other factors (the “contingent purchase price”). The accounting principles generally accepted in the United States require that we estimate the amount of the contingent purchase price at the time we complete the acquisition. Each subsequent reporting period (until the contingent purchase price is either paid or no longer potentially payable), we are required to re-evaluate the estimated amount of remaining contingent purchase price that is likely to be paid. If the revised estimate of the future contingent purchase price is higher than the amount accrued, then the difference must be accrued and charged to the statement of income in that period. If the revised estimate of the future contingent purchase price is lower than the amount accrued, then the accrual is reduced and the difference is credited to income for the period. Because some of these payments would not be deductible for tax purposes, it is possible that the expense (or income) would not be tax-effected on our income statements. These adjustments, if required, could be material to our future results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 