ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The initiatives that we are implementing in an effort to improve our sales productivity, revenue and income could be unsuccessful, which could harm our business and may further depress the price of our stock. In an effort to improve our revenue and income levels, we have implemented several strategic initiatives, including the following: • We increased the number of our North American sales professionals and added additional sales managers. • We launched our new Pearl product worldwide. • We dedicated additional sales professionals to work in conjunction with PSS, and increased our focus and attention on our PSS relationship. We believe these initiatives should improve our revenue and income. However, these initiatives may not be successful for several reasons: they may lead to employee turnover; there are no assurances that we can hire and train new sales employees; we may not be able to successfully market our new products; and our efforts to improve our sales productivity may result in instability to our operations, causing harm to our business and a further decline in our stock price. Our revenue and earnings are difficult to predict and our decision to not provide public guidance could harm our business, and our stock price might become more volatile and could decline. We historically provided guidance to the investment community regarding our anticipated future operating performance, both for the coming quarters and fiscal year. However, beginning with the release of our earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, we have discontinued our practice of providing financial guidance because the following factors have made it difficult for us to accurately forecast our revenue and earnings: • Some of our publicly-traded competitors have reported reduced growth rates for the second half of calendar 2007, which could indicate signs of a slowing market growth rate; • There has been a slower-than-expected adoption of our new Pearl product by new customers; 19 Table of Contents • The sales productivity of our recently-hired North American sales professionals has not increased to our expected level; • We have short sales cycles in our business; and • Many of our customer orders in any given quarter are received during the last month of a quarter, which results in uncertainties in our ability to ship our products by the end of the quarter. Due to our decision to not provide public guidance, if, in the future, our actual results are below the expectations of third party financial analysts, our business could be harmed, the volatility of our stock price could increase, and our stock price could decline significantly as a result. Our North American sales team has many new sales professionals and managers. If we are unable to effectively train, retain and manage these employees, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability. As of December 31, 2007, as a result of our sales-expansion efforts and sales employee turnover in 2007, a significant number of our sales professionals and sales managers on our North American sales team had been in their respective roles for less than a year. Our experience is that new sales professionals are at higher risk for employee turnover and generally take two to three quarters to achieve effective productivity levels. Our success largely depends on our ability to manage and improve the productivity levels of our sales professionals and worldwide distribution network. If we fail to manage, or do not improve the productivity of, any material part of that network, including the North American sales team, this could lead to reduced revenue and employee turnover, which could materially harm our business. If we experience significant levels of attrition among our sales professionals or our sales managers, our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected as a result. To successfully market and sell our products internationally, we must address many issues with which we have little or no experience. For the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 42% and 37%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from international customers, which is a material component of our growth strategy. We depend on third-party distributors and a relatively new direct sales operation to sell our products internationally, and if these distributors or direct sales personnel underperform, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of international revenue. We will need to expand the territories in which we sell our products and attract additional international distributors to grow our business. Distributors may not accept our business or commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or if we are unable to engage distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not be able to realize international revenue growth. Additionally, we expect to expand our direct sales force in Europe and Asia. If we are unable to hire, retain and obtain satisfactory performance from such additional personnel, our revenue from international operations may be adversely affected. We believe that an increasing amount of our future revenue will come from international sales as we expand our overseas operations and develop opportunities in additional international territories. International sales are subject to a number of risks, including: • Difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign operations; • Difficulties in penetrating markets in which our competitors’ products are more established; • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Export restrictions, trade regulations and foreign tax laws; • Fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates; • Foreign certification and regulatory requirements; 20 Table of Contents • Lengthy payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • Customs clearance and shipping delays; • Political and economic instability; • Lack of awareness of our brand in international markets; and • Preference for locally-produced products. If one or more of these risks were realized, it could require us to dedicate significant resources to remedy the situation, and if we were unsuccessful at finding a solution, our revenue may decline. We may incur substantial expenses if our practices are shown to have violated the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. We had previously used facsimiles to disseminate commercial information about our business to customers and potential customers. In February 2008, we adopted a policy of sending commercial facsimiles only to our customers and others with whom we have an existing business relationship. Under the federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act, or TCPA, recipients of unsolicited facsimile “advertisements” may be entitled to damages of $500 per violation for inadvertent violations and $1,500 per violation for knowing or willful violations. In January 2008, a TCPA class action lawsuit was filed against us in the Illinois Circuit Court, Cook County, by Bridgeport Pain Control Center, LTD., seeking monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and other relief. The complaint alleges that we violated the TCPA by sending unsolicited advertisements by facsimile to the plaintiff and other recipients without the prior express invitation or permission of the recipients. On February 22, 2008, we removed the case to federal court in the Northern District of Illinois, and filed our response to the complaint on February 29, 2008. Although we are continuing to investigate the number of facsimiles transmitted during the period for which the plaintiff in the lawsuit seeks class certification and the number of these facsimiles that were “unsolicited” within the meaning of the TCPA, we expect the number of unsolicited facsimiles could be large. We intend to defend this lawsuit vigorously, including the plaintiff’s allegations seeking class certification, but litigation is subject to numerous uncertainties and we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this matter. Even if we prevail in this lawsuit, other individual or class action claims may be brought against us alleging violations of the TCPA. Moreover, the amount of any potential liability in connection with this lawsuit will depend, to a large extent, on whether a class in this type of action is certified and, if one is certified, on the scope of the class, neither of which we can predict at this time. We have not recorded a liability related to this lawsuit. However, we may determine in the future that an accrual is required, and we may be required to pay damages in respect of this lawsuit out of our transmission of facsimiles, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Regardless of the outcome, this lawsuit may cause us to incur significant expenses and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We have not tendered this lawsuit to our insurance carrier, may not do so, and, even if we do so, coverage may be disputed. Even if coverage is determined to apply, since the potential liability under this claim could be substantial, our coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy any damages or expenses that we may be required to pay. 21 Table of Contents We compete against companies that have longer operating histories, more established products and greater resources, each of which may prevent us from achieving significant market penetration or increased operating results. Our industry is subject to intense competition. Our products compete against similar products offered by public companies, such as Candela, Cynosure, Elen (in Italy), Iridex, Palomar, Syneron and Thermage, as well as private companies such as Alma, Aesthera, Lumenis, Reliant, Sciton and several other companies. Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future. Competition with these companies could result in price-cutting, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face competition from medical products, such as Botox, an injectable compound used to reduce wrinkles, and collagen injections. Other alternatives to the use of our products include sclerotherapy, a procedure involving the injection of a solution into the vein to collapse it, electrolysis, a procedure involving the application of electric current to eliminate hair follicles, and chemical peels. We may also face competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other products that have not yet been developed. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products, and includes such factors as: • Intellectual property protection; • Product performance; • Product pricing; • Quality of customer support; • Success and timing of new product development and introductions; and • Development of successful distribution channels, both domestically and internationally. Some of our competitors have more established products and customer relationships than we do, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. For example, we have encountered, and expect to continue to encounter, situations where, due to pre-existing relationships, potential customers decided to purchase additional products from our competitors. Potential customers also may need to recoup the cost of expensive products that they have already purchased from our competitors and may decide not to purchase our products, or to delay such purchases. If we are unable to achieve continued market penetration, we will be unable to compete effectively and our business will be harmed. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, research and development, business development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors could utilize their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our existing product lines. To compete effectively, we have to demonstrate that our products are attractive alternatives to other devices and treatments by differentiating our products on the basis of performance, brand name, service and price. Our competitors could form strategic alliances with other companies to develop products and solutions that effectively compete with our products. For example, Palomar and Syneron have each entered into agreements with Proctor and Gamble for the proposed development of home-use aesthetic devices. And Syneron entered into an agreement with Obagi Medical Products to study the effects of using Obagi’s skin care products during treatments with Syneron aesthetic devices. Business combinations and alliances by our competitors could increase competition, which could harm our business. Competition among providers of laser and other energy-based devices for the aesthetic market is characterized by rapid innovation, and we must continuously develop or acquire new products and successfully introduce them or our revenue may decline. Some of our competitors release new products more often and more successfully than we do. For example, in the second half of 2007, revenue from sales of our new Pearl product to new customers did not meet our 22 Table of Contents expectations, although revenue from sales of Pearl upgrades to existing customers grew significantly and was the primary reason for the 217% and 104% increases in upgrade revenue in the third and fourth quarter of 2007, compared to the corresponding periods in 2006, respectively. We believe that, to increase revenue from sales of new products and related product upgrades, we need to continue developing our clinical support and increasing market awareness of the benefits of those new products. If we fail to successfully commercialize any of our products, our business could be harmed. While we attempt to protect our products through patents and other intellectual property, there are few barriers to entry that would prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products that compete directly with ours. For example, while our CoolGlide product was the first long-pulse Nd:YAG, or long wavelength, laser system cleared by the FDA for permanent hair reduction on all skin types, competitors have subsequently introduced systems that utilize Nd:YAG lasers, and received FDA clearances to market these products as treating all skin types. We expect that any competitive advantage we may enjoy from other current and future innovations, such as combining multiple hand pieces in a single system to perform a variety of applications, may diminish over time, as companies successfully respond to our, or create their own, innovations. Consequently, we believe that we will have to continuously innovate and improve our products and technology to compete successfully. If we are unable to innovate successfully, our products could become obsolete and our revenue could decline as our customers and prospects purchase our competitors’ products. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to innovate, to develop, acquire and commercialize new products and product enhancements, and to identify new markets for our technology. We have created products to apply our technology to hair removal, treatment of veins and skin rejuvenation, including the treating of diffuse redness, skin laxity, fine lines, skin texture, pore size and pigmented lesions. Currently, these applications represent the majority of laser and other energy-based aesthetic procedures. To continue growing in the future, we must develop and acquire new and innovative aesthetic applications, identify new markets for our existing technology, and develop and acquire new technology from various platforms. To successfully expand our product offerings, we must, among other things: • Develop or acquire new products that either add to or significantly improve our current products; • Convince our customers and prospective customers that our new products or product upgrades would be an attractive revenue-generating addition to their practices; • Sell our products to a broad customer base; • Identify new markets and alternative applications for our technology; • Protect our existing and future products with defensible intellectual property; and • Satisfy and maintain all regulatory requirements for commercialization. Every year since 2000, we have introduced at least one new product. Historically, these introductions have been a significant component of our financial performance. Our business strategy is based, in part, on our expectation that we will continue to make annual product introductions that we can sell to new customers and to existing customers as upgrades. Even with a significant investment in research and development, we may be unable to continue to develop or acquire new products and technologies annually, or at all, which could adversely affect our projected growth rate. If there is not sufficient demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner demand for our products could be inhibited, resulting in unfavorable operating results and reduced growth potential. Continued expansion of the global market for laser-and other energy-based aesthetic procedures is a material assumption of our growth strategy. Most procedures performed using our products are elective procedures not 23 Table of Contents reimbursable through government or private health insurance, with the costs borne by the patient. The decision to utilize our products may therefore be influenced by a number of factors, including: • The cost of procedures performed using our products; • The cost, safety and effectiveness of alternative treatments, including treatments which are not based upon laser- or other energy-based technologies and treatments which use pharmaceutical products; • The success of our sales and marketing efforts; • Consumer confidence, which may be impacted by political and macroeconomic conditions, such as recession, continuing increases in oil prices, high unemployment rates, increased interest rates and subprime mortgage failures; and • The education of our customers and patients on the benefits and uses of our products, compared to competitors’ products and technologies. Also, some of our publicly-traded competitors have reported reduced growth rates for the second-half of calendar 2007, which could indicate signs of a slowing demand for aesthetic procedures. If, as a result of these factors, there is not sufficient demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner demand for our products could be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, revenue and result of operations. If PSS World Medical fails to perform to our expectations, we may fail to achieve anticipated operating results. We have a distribution agreement with PSS World Medical. PSS sales professionals work in coordination with our sales force to locate new customers for our products throughout the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, approximately 14%, 15% and 16% of our revenue came from PSS, respectively. Although we have dedicated additional sales professionals to work closely with, and increase the focus and attention on, our PSS relationship, it may take time for the increase in resources to result in an improvement in revenue from our PSS relationship. In addition, we can provide no assurances that the increased focus on PSS will translate into increased revenue for us. Further, if PSS does not perform adequately under the arrangement, or terminates our relationship, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Two securities class action lawsuits were filed against us in April and May 2007, respectively, based upon the decreases in our stock price following the announcement of our preliminary first quarter 2007 revenue and earnings, and the announcement of our revised 2007 guidance. Defending ourselves against this litigation could distract management and harm our business. Two class action lawsuits were filed against us following declines in our stock price in the spring of 2007. On November 1, 2007, the court ordered the two cases consolidated. We will incur legal costs as a result of this litigation. Although we retain director and officer liability insurance, there can be no guarantee that such insurance will cover the claims that are made or will insure us fully for all losses on covered claims. This litigation may distract our management and consume resources that would otherwise have been directed toward running our business. Each of these factors could harm our business. We hold auction-rate securities in our portfolio of investments. Due to failed auctions for some of our auction rate investments in February 2008, we are unable to readily liquidate our auction rate securities into cash, future earnings could be reduced if we have to take an impairment charge, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline significantly as a result. We invest our excess cash primarily in money market funds and in highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, U.S. municipalities, and in bonds of high-quality corporate issuers. At 24 Table of Contents December 31, 2007, we had marketable securities of $95.9 million, of which $21.5 million was invested in auction rate securities. Of the $21.5 million of auction rate securities, we classified $7.4 million under the caption of ‘Marketable investments- long term portion’ in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of February 29, 2008 we had $13.6 million of our investment portfolio invested in auction rate securities. These auction rate securities provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, generally every 35 days—though auctions for some of the securities are held every 360 days. During the period from January 1, 2008 to February 29, 2008, auctions for $9.6 million of our investments in auction rate securities failed due to the current overall credit concerns in capital markets. Upon an auction failure, the interest rates do not reset at a market rate but instead reset based on a formula contained in the security, which rate is generally higher than the current market rate. The failure of the auctions impacts our ability to readily liquidate our auction rate securities into cash until a future auction of these investments is successful or the auction rate security is refinanced by the issuer into another type of debt instrument. If in the future we are unable to liquidate our investments in auction rate securities and / or there is an other-than-temporary impairment in their market value, our future earnings could be reduced if we have to take an impairment charge, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline significantly as a result. The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. We have a limited number of shares of common stock outstanding, a large portion of which is held by a small number of investors, which could result in the increase in volatility of our stock price. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 50% of our outstanding shares of common stock was held by ten institutional investors. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. The public market price of our common stock has in the past fluctuated substantially and, given the current concentration of stockholders, may continue to do so in the future. The market price for our common stock could also be affected by a number of other factors, including: • Sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and our large institutional investors; • Quarterly variations in our, or our competitors’, results of operations; • Changes in analysts’ estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ estimates; • The announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; • The announcement of the departure of a key employee or executive officer; • Regulatory developments or delays concerning our, or our competitors’ products; • The initiation of litigation by us or one of our competitors; and • General market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Actual or perceived instability in our stock price could reduce demand from potential buyers of our stock, thereby causing our stock price to decline. 25 Table of Contents Any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We expect to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. We may also consider joint ventures and other collaborative projects. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate any businesses, products or technologies that we acquire. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition and management of any collaborative project may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. We do not have any experience as a team with acquiring companies or products. If we decide to expand our product offerings beyond laser and other energy-based products, we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. Any cash acquisition we pursue would diminish our available cash balances to us for other uses, and any stock acquisition could be dilutive to our stockholders. While we from time to time evaluate potential collaborative projects and acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions or collaborative projects. We may be involved in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact our future business and financial performance. Our competitors or other patent holders may assert that our present or future products and the methods we employ are covered by their patents. In addition, we do not know whether our competitors own or will obtain patents that they may claim prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use, sell or import our products. Although we may seek to resolve any potential future claims or actions, we may not be able to do so on reasonable terms, or at all. If, following a successful third-party action for infringement, we cannot obtain a license or redesign our products, we may have to stop manufacturing and selling the applicable products and our business would suffer as a result. In addition, a court could require us to pay substantial damages, and prohibit us from using technologies essential to our products, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may become involved in litigation not only as a result of alleged infringement of a third party’s intellectual property rights but also to protect our own intellectual property. For example, we have been, and may hereafter become, involved in litigation to protect the trademark rights associated with our company name or the names of our products. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and could divert management’s attention from our core business. Intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection for some or all of our products, which may permit third parties to compete against us more effectively. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and products. At December 31, 2007, we had nine issued U.S. patents. Some of our components, such as our laser module, electronic control system and high-voltage electronics, are not, and in the future may not be, protected by patents. Additionally, our patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we obtain may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. Consequently, competitors could market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to, or superior to, ours. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized uses and disclosures of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. Moreover, the laws of many foreign countries will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. 26 Table of Contents The absence of complete intellectual property protection exposes us to a greater risk of direct competition. Competitors could purchase one of our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, design around our protected technology, or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position and our business could be adversely affected. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances for our products and indications, if clearances for future products and indications are delayed or not issued, if there are federal or state level regulatory changes or if we are found to have violated applicable FDA marketing rules, our commercial operations would be harmed. Our products are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA for manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or labeling claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-marketing approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. In the event that we do not obtain FDA clearances or approvals for our products, our ability to market and sell them in the United States and revenue derived therefrom may be adversely affected. Medical devices may be marketed in the United States only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared by the FDA. For example, we have FDA clearance to market our Titan product in the United States only for deep dermal heating, and are therefore prevented from promoting or advertising Titan in the United States for any other indications. If we fail to comply with these regulations, it could result in enforcement action by the FDA which could lead to such consequences as warning letters, adverse publicity, criminal enforcement action and/or third-party civil litigation, each of which could adversely affect us. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the indications for which we market our products. However, our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. We also are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Our products are also subject to state regulations, which are, in many instances, in flux. Changes in state regulations may impede sales. For example, federal regulations allow our products to be sold to, or on the order of, “licensed practitioners,” as determined on a state-by-state basis. As a result, in some states, non-physicians may legally purchase our products. However, a state could change its regulations at any time, thereby disallowing sales to particular types of end users. We cannot predict the impact or effect of future legislation or regulations at the federal or state levels. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: • Warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • Repair, replacement, recall or seizure of our products; • Operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • Refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; • Withdrawing 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals that have already been granted; and • Criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business. 27 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and laser performance standards, our manufacturing operations could be halted, and our business would suffer. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Because our products involve the use of lasers, our products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record-keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the QSR and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. Our failure to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or our failure to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, such as those described in the preceding paragraph, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. If we modify one of our FDA-approved devices, we may need to seek re-approval, which, if not granted, would prevent us from selling our modified products or cause us to redesign our products. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a pre-market approval. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearance would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearance or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign our products. We may be unable to obtain or maintain international regulatory qualifications or approvals for our current or future products and indications, which could harm our business. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. In addition, exports of medical devices from the United States are regulated by the FDA. Complying with international regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time-consuming process and approval is not certain. The time required to obtain clearance or approvals, if required by other countries, may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approvals, and requirements for such clearances or approvals may significantly differ from FDA requirements. We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory qualifications, clearances or approvals in other countries. We may also incur significant costs in attempting to obtain and in maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or qualifications. If we experience delays in receiving necessary qualifications, clearances or approvals to market our products outside the United States, or if we fail to receive those qualifications, clearances or approvals, we may be unable to market our products or enhancements in international markets effectively, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and growth strategy. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and therefore our financial condition. Some of our customers and prospective customers have had difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operation and use of our products. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain states or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using our products and potential customers may opt against purchasing laser and other energy- 28 Table of Contents based products due to the cost or inability to procure insurance coverage. The unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers and prospects could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and that could harm our financial condition. Because we do not require training for users of our products, and sell our products at times to non-physicians, there exists an increased potential for misuse of our products, which could harm our reputation and our business. Federal regulations allow us to sell our products to or on the order of “licensed practitioners.” The definition of “licensed practitioners” varies from state to state. As a result, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training, and in many states, by non-physicians, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. Outside the United States, many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, nor do we require that direct medical supervision occur. We and our distributors generally offer but do not require product training to the purchasers or operators of our products. In addition, we sometimes sell our systems to companies that rent our systems to third parties and that provide a technician to perform the procedures. The lack of training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and our business, and, in the event these result in product liability litigation, distract management and subject us to liability, including legal expenses. Product liability suits could be brought against us due to a defective design, material or workmanship or misuse of our products and could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Misusing our products or failing to adhere to operating guidelines could cause significant eye and skin damage, and underlying tissue damage. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. We have been involved, and may in the future be involved, in litigation related to the use of our products. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all future claims. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and could reduce product sales. In addition, we have been experiencing steep increases in our product liability insurance premiums. If our premiums continue to rise, we may no longer be able to afford adequate insurance coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, or we have product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, claims would be paid out of cash reserves, thereby harming our financial condition, operating results and profitability. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Many of the components and materials that comprise our products are currently manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond our current suppliers’ capabilities could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified and qualified. Our reliance on these suppliers subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business, including: • Interruption of supply resulting from modifications to or discontinuation of a supplier’s operations; • Delays in product shipments resulting from uncorrected defects, reliability issues or a supplier’s variation in a component; 29 Table of Contents • A lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; • Inability to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner, or on reasonable terms; • Difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our components in a timely manner; • Production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers, and corresponding regulatory qualifications; and, • Delay in supplier deliveries. Any interruption in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Components used in our products are complex in design, and any defects may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations that would reduce our revenue and increase our cost. In manufacturing our products, we depend upon third parties for the supply of various components. Many of these components require a significant degree of technical expertise to produce. If our suppliers fail to produce components to specification, or if the suppliers, or we, use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired easily and inexpensively, we may experience: • Loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; • Damage to our brand reputation; • Increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; • Inability to attract new customers; • Diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and • Legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could materially harm our business. We forecast sales to determine requirements for components and materials used in our products and if our forecasts are incorrect, we may experience either delays in shipments or increased inventory costs. We keep limited materials and components on hand. To manage our manufacturing operations with our suppliers, we forecast anticipated product orders and material requirements to predict our inventory needs up to twelve months in advance and enter into purchase orders on the basis of these requirements. Our limited historical experience may not provide us with enough data to accurately predict future demand. If our business expands, our demand for components and materials would increase and our suppliers may be unable to meet our demand. If we overestimate our component and material requirements, we will have excess inventories, which would increase our expenses. If we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventories, which could interrupt, delay or prevent delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively affect our financial performance and the level of satisfaction our customers have with our business. Lack of demand for our products in the non-core market would harm our anticipated revenue growth. Most of our revenue in the United States is derived from sales to customers outside of the core dermatologist and plastic surgeon specialties, such as family practitioners, primary care physicians, gynecologists and medi-spas. Continuing to achieve further penetration into this market is a material assumption of our growth strategy. 30 Table of Contents Demand for our products in the non-core market could be weakened by several factors including poor financial performance of businesses introducing aesthetic procedures to their practice or medi-spas, reduced patient demand for alternative treatments and services being provided by non-core practitioners and an increase in malpractice lawsuits against non-core practitioners. If we do not achieve anticipated demand for our products in the non-core market, our revenue may be adversely impacted. We depend on skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain these employees, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees. We do not have employment contracts with any of our officers or other key employees. Any of our officers and other key employees may terminate their employment at any time. We do not have a succession plan in place for each of our officers and key employees. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our senior management team members could weaken our management expertise and harm our business. Our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees are critical factors in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel. We will face particularly significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel, would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. Our profit margins may vary over time. Our profit margins may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including decreases in our shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of, our inventory, shifts in our product mix and increased expenses associated with repairing defective products covered by our warranty program. In addition, the competitive market environment in which we operate may adversely affect pricing for our products. Because we own most of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed. If we experience a decrease in shipment volume, or have to reduce our pricing to remain competitive, or experience a greater than expected failure rate for any of our products, etc., our gross and operating margins will be adversely impacted. We are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. We do not actively hedge our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. While we transact business primarily in U.S. Dollars, and a significant proportion of our revenue is denominated in U.S. Dollars, a portion of our costs and revenue is denominated in other currencies, such as the Euro, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar and British Pound Sterling. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies to the U.S. Dollar will affect our net income. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. Our investment portfolio consists of both high investment grade corporate and municipal securities that have a maximum effective maturity of up to two years. In addition to bonds, we invest in variable rate demand notes and auction-rate-securities whose interest rates reset generally every 35 days—though auctions for some of the securities are held every 360 days. The longer the duration of a security, the more susceptible it is to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. For example, assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the fair value of our total investment portfolio as of December 31, 2007 would have potentially decreased by $443,000, resulting in an unrealized loss that would subsequently adversely impact our earnings. As a result, changes in the market interest rates will affect our future net income. 31 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover, and might make it more difficult for an investor to acquire a substantial block of our common stock. These provisions include: • A classified board of directors; • Advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; • A supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws; • Limitations on stockholder actions by written consent; and • The right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our effective income tax rate may vary significantly. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, changes in estimates of prior years’ items, unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, future levels of research and development spending, deductions for employee stock option exercises being different from what we projected, and changes in overall levels of income before taxes. The quarterly royalty payments under our patent license with Palomar are subject to an annual audit. Any material adjustments from this audit could result in a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. We pay royalties to Palomar after each fiscal quarter for applicable product sales made in that quarter. These royalty amounts are subject to an annual review by an independent public accountant hired by Palomar. The independent public accountant’s interpretation of the applicable royalty rate for any new products, or combination of products, and the net revenue from which to calculate the royalty, could be different from ours. In the event that the independent public accountant’s assessment of the accuracy of our estimated royalty payments to Palomar is materially different from our calculations, we could owe a higher amount to Palomar than we accrued for, and would then have to report it as an additional expense in our financial statements for the applicable period. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 