ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Acquisition by Clinical Data The number of shares and the value of Clinical Data common stock that Avalon stockholders will receive in connection with the merger will fluctuate. The precise value of the merger consideration to be received by Avalon stockholders at the effective time of the merger cannot be determined at the present time. Upon the terms of the merger agreement, Clinical Data would issue 0.0470 of a share of Clinical Data common stock for each share of Avalon common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger and CVRs that will provide Avalon stockholders with the opportunity to acquire additional shares of common stock. The price of Clinical Data common stock at the closing of the merger may vary from its price on the date the merger agreement was executed. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors beyond Clinical Data’s control, including general economic and market conditions. In addition, there will be a period of time between completion of the merger and the time at which former Avalon stockholders actually receive stock certificates evidencing the Clinical Data common stock. Until stock certificates are received, former Avalon stockholders may not be able to sell their Clinical Data shares in the open market and, therefore, may not be able to avoid losses from any decrease in the trading price of Clinical Data common stock during that period. The issuance of Clinical Data common stock under the CVRs is subject to a number of uncertainties; because of the delay in time before any shares of Clinical Data common stock could be issuable under the CVRs, the value of such stock will fluctuate. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement and the CVR agreement, the CVRs provide former Avalon stockholders and warrantholders (to the extent they timely exercise their warrants) with the right to receive additional shares of Clinical Data common stock if Avalon or its affiliates (including Clinical Data following the merger) receive any milestone payments from certain strategic partners prior to June 30, 2010. In particular, the CVRs provide that additional shares of Clinical Data common stock will only be issued if Avalon or its affiliates (including Clinical Data following the closing of the merger) receives a payment under either Avalon’s collaboration agreement with Merck (the “Merck Agreement”) or under Avalon’s collaboration agreement with Novartis (the “Novartis Agreement”) at any time during the period commencing on October 27, 2008 through and including June 30, 2010 (up to a maximum aggregate amount of $5 million). Although the CVR agreement provides that any payment received prior to June 30, 2010 under either the Merck Agreement or Novartis Agreement (up to a maximum of $5 million in payments) constitutes a “milestone payment” for purposes of calculating whether Avalon stockholders will be entitled to receive additional shares of Clinical Data common stock in the merger, Avalon’s management views the following payments as having the most realistic possibility of being achieved prior to June 30, 2010 and resulting in the achievement of a “milestone payment” under the CVR agreement: • Under the Merck Agreement, Avalon is entitled to a payment of $4 million upon the achievement of biological proof of concept of a lead compound as an inhibitor of the target which is the subject of the collaboration. Avalon also is entitled to an additional payment of $4 million upon the achievement of preclinical proof of concept of such compound following achievement of biological proof of concept. In addition, if Merck terminates the agreement, Avalon is entitled to a termination fee of up to potentially $7 million, depending on the status of the collaboration at the time of termination of the agreement. With respect to the $4 million payment upon achievement of biological proof of concept, although Avalon’s management believes that the lead compound that it has identified under this collaboration has satisfied the criteria for achievement of biological proof of concept, based on recent discussions with Merck, it appears that Merck may intend to dispute Avalon’s achievement of this milestone. We are currently in discussions with Merck regarding the achievement of this milestone. In addition, we are in discussions with Merck regarding the termination of the collaboration by Merck and the payment by Merck to Avalon of a 15 termination fee under the terms of the agreement, as described above. There is no guarantee that these matters will be resolved favorably for Avalon, and pending the resolution of these matters, it is unlikely that further progress will be made with respect to the preclinical proof of concept milestone or any other milestones under the Merck Agreement. In the event that the collaboration with Merck is terminated, we may receive all or part of the termination payment described above, but no further progress will be made towards the attainment of any other milestone under the Merck Agreement. Moreover, resolution of these matters could take extensive time to achieve, which could potentially prevent a payment from Merck that would otherwise constitute a “milestone payment” under the terms of the CVR agreement from being received prior to June 30, 2010, the “milestone payment” deadline under the CVR agreement. Consequently, there can be no assurance when, or if, any payments will be received from Merck, and accordingly, whether any “milestone payments” will be achieved under the CVR agreement based on our collaboration with Merck. • Under the Novartis Agreement, Avalon is entitled to receive a $500,000 milestone payment if Novartis identifies a validated hit compound and another $500,000 milestone payment if Novartis identifies a lead compound under the collaboration. The determination of whether to pursue a validated hit compound or lead compound under the collaboration is at the sole discretion of Novartis. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Novartis will determine to continue with the collaboration through the identification of a validated hit compound or of a lead compound. If Novartis determines not to continue with the collaboration through these milestone events, no further payments will be due to Avalon under the Novartis Agreement. If such payments under the Merck Agreement or Novartis Agreement are not achieved within the required timeframe, the CVRs will expire and no payments will be made to CVR holders in connection with the CVRs. Accordingly, the CVRs may ultimately have no value. Moreover, following the closing of the merger, Clinical Data will be under no obligation to former Avalon stockholders to engage in any additional research and development efforts under the Merck Agreement or Novartis Agreement or to pursue any payments from Merck or Novartis. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the receipt of any payments from Merck or Novartis within the required timeframe, Avalon stockholders will not be able to determine the total value of the consideration that they will receive in the merger prior to voting on the adoption of the merger agreement since a portion of the merger consideration is contingent upon the occurrence of future events. In addition, because no payment, if any, will be made to holders of the CVRs of any additional shares of Clinical Data common stock prior to June 30, 2010 (and then only after surrender by the holder of a CVR to the rights agent under the CVR agreement of the holder’s certificate representing such CVR, which could result in further delay of payment of any additional shares of Clinical Data common stock to a holder of a CVR past June 30, 2010), the value of any Clinical Data common stock that holders of CVRs will receive in connection with the merger will fluctuate. Therefore, even if a “milestone payment” under the CVR agreement is achieved, the value of the additional consideration Avalon stockholders may receive under the CVRs may be significantly lower than the $12.49 per share used to calculate the number of shares payable under the CVRs. Former Avalon warrantholders will not receive CVRs until they exercise their warrants to purchase shares of Clinical Data common stock. Pursuant to its terms, the CVR agreement terminates six months following the June 30, 2010 milestone date. To ensure their receipt of the CVRs, each former Avalon warrantholder should exercise their warrant prior to the termination of the CVR agreement. Additionally, the CVRs are not transferable other than in certain limited circumstances and accordingly Avalon stockholders may not sell them prior to their termination. Uncertainty regarding the merger and the effects of the merger could cause our licensors, collaborators, suppliers or other strategic partners to delay or defer decisions, which could increase costs of the on-going business for us. Our strategy for developing and commercializing many of our potential products includes entering into agreements with licensors, collaborators, suppliers and other strategic partners. These partners, in response to the announcement of the merger, may delay or defer decisions regarding their business relationships with us, which could increase costs for our business and delay, interrupt or terminate the collaborate research, development and commercialization of certain potential products, regardless of whether the merger is ultimately completed. Under specified circumstances, these partners may also terminate their agreements with us. Any such delay, interruption or termination of our relationship with any of these partners could materially harm its business and financial condition, and frustrate any commercialization efforts for our product candidates. 16 The merger is subject to closing conditions that could result in the completion of the merger being delayed or not consummated, which could negatively impact our stock price and future business and operations. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon Clinical Data and Avalon satisfying closing conditions, including adoption of the merger agreement by Avalon’s stockholders, all as set forth in the merger agreement. The required conditions to closing may not be satisfied in a timely manner, if at all, or, if permissible, waived, and the merger may not be consummated. Failure to consummate the merger could negatively impact our stock price, future business and operations, and financial condition. Any delay in the consummation of the merger or any uncertainty about the consummation of the merger may adversely affect our future business, growth, revenue and results of operations. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and the future business and financial results of Avalon, and the merger agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the merger. If the merger is not completed for any reason, our on-going business may be adversely affected and will be subject to a number of risks, including: • We may be required, under some circumstances, to pay Clinical Data a termination fee of $300,000 and reimburse Clinical Data for up to $100,000 of merger-related expenses; • We may be required to repay to Clinical Data the outstanding principal and accrued interest under the terms of a note purchase agreement between the parties and related term notes; • The diversion of management’s attention, the reduction in capital spending and acquisitions, the suspension of planned hiring and other affirmative and negative covenants in the merger agreement restricting the companies’ businesses; • Failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities as a result of the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of the merger; • the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; • We may experience negative reactions to the termination of the merger from licensors, collaborators, suppliers, or other strategic partners; • Our costs incurred related to the merger, such as legal and accounting fees, must be paid even if the merger are not completed; • Our common stock may be subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market; and • Clinical Data’s royalty-free, fully-paid, worldwide, perpetual, irrevocable, sublicensable and exclusive license to AvalonRx®, our proprietary drug-development platform, will not terminate, thereby restricting our operations and potentially negatively impacting the value of Avalon’s common stock. If the merger agreement is terminated and our board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to pay a price equivalent to or more attractive than the price Clinical Data has agreed to pay in the merger. Further, Clinical Data owns approximately 16.6% of our common stock and we owe Clinical Data $4 million of principal plus accrued but unpaid interest under the terms of a note purchase agreement entered into at the time of execution of the merger agreement (as subsequently amended), and related term notes. Such ownership, the amount owed and the license granted to Clinical Data may deter third parties from proposing or pursuing alternative business combinations that might result in greater value to Avalon stockholders than the merger. In addition, the merger agreement contains “no shop” provisions that, subject to limited exceptions, preclude Avalon, whether directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries, officers, directors, agents or other representatives, from (i) soliciting, 17 initiating, knowingly facilitating, encouraging or inducing, any inquiry with respect to, or the making, submission or announcement of, any acquisition proposal, (ii) participating in any discussions or negotiations, or furnishing any nonpublic information with respect to any acquisition proposal, (iii) taking any other action to facilitate any inquiries or proposal that would be reasonably expected to result in an acquisition proposal, (iv) approving, endorsing or recommending any acquisition proposal, or (v) entering into any agreement contemplating or otherwise relating to any acquisition proposal. Under certain circumstances, the merger agreement also provides that Avalon will be required to reimburse Clinical Data for up to $100,000 of merger-related expenses or pay a termination fee of $300,000 to Clinical Data upon termination of the merger agreement. During the pendency of the merger, we may not be able to enter into certain business arrangements with other parties because of restrictions in the merger agreement. Covenants in the merger agreement impede our ability to make certain acquisitions or complete other transactions that are not, among other things, in the ordinary course of business pending completion of the merger. As a result, if the merger is not completed, we may be at a disadvantage to its competitors. Risks Related to Our Business We have an immediate need for capital and will need to raise additional capital in the future to continue our business, and our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We estimate that our current capital resources will not be sufficient to fund our operations significantly beyond May 2009 without an additional curtailment of operating and capital expenditures, additional partnership revenues, or new equity or debt financing. In addition, our financial statements have been prepared on the assumption that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the normal course of business. However, our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, includes an explanatory paragraph that states that our recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our success at raising additional capital sufficient to meet our obligations on a timely basis and to ultimately attain profitability. In the event we are unable to successfully raise additional capital, it is unlikely that we will have sufficient cash flows and liquidity to finance our business operations as currently contemplated. Accordingly, in the event new financing is not obtained, we will likely reduce general and administrative expenses and delay research and development projects and postpone further acquisition of scientific equipment and supplies until we are able to obtain sufficient financing to do so. These factors could significantly limit our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a history of losses, we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. We do not currently have any products that have been approved for marketing, and we continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We had net losses of $21.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We expect our annual operating losses to continue over the next several years. Our losses, among other things, have caused and will continue to cause our working capital and stockholders’ equity to decrease. To date, we have derived all of our revenue in connection with collaborations. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of products for the foreseeable future. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing novel drugs with significant market potential. This will require us to succeed in a range of challenging activities, including conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, entering into appropriate collaborations, and manufacturing, marketing and selling commercial products. We may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. If we fail to earn profits, or if we cannot sustain profitability, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. In addition, we may be unable to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. 18 Our stock price is volatile. Since our common stock commenced trading on September 29, 2005, our stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Our stock price may continue to fluctuate for many reasons, including as a result of public announcements regarding the progress of our development efforts, regulatory developments, clinical trial results, the addition or departure of our key personnel, the commencement or termination of collaborations with third parties, and variations in our quarterly operating results. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control, including public announcements by other biopharmaceutical companies regarding their business, financial condition or results of operations. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment. Our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market prior to the closing of the merger, which could reduce the value of your investment and make your shares of our stock more difficult to sell. On September 24, 2008, we received a notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC, or Nasdaq, indicating that we are not in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). We received this notice because the bid price for our common stock over the previous 30 consecutive business days had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing. Nasdaq has suspended the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price through July 20, 2009. However, if our pending merger with Clinical Data’s subsidiary, API, does not close before that time and we continue to fail to meet the minimum $1.00 closing bid price, Nasdaq could delist our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, on November 20, 2008, we received a letter from Nasdaq notifying us that based on our stockholders equity, as reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008, we were not in compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement of $10 million for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market as set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(3). On December 18, 2008, we received a letter from Nasdaq notifying us that we had until March 5, 2009 to either complete the merger with Clinical Data’s wholly-owned subsidiary, API, or alternatively, demonstrate compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(3). On March 12, 2009, we received a determination letter from Nasdaq’s staff stating that Avalon failed to comply with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(3) and, that as a result, our common stock would be suspended from trading on the Nasdaq Global Market at the opening of business on March 23, 2009 and removed from listing and registration on the Nasdaq Global Market unless we appealed the Nasdaq staff’s determination. On March 18, 2009, our management requested a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel to appeal the Nasdaq staff’s delisting determination. The appeal hearing is scheduled for April 30, 2009. We expect that our common stock will remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market pending the outcome of a decision by the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. However, we cannot provide any assurances that the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel will grant our request for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market pending the closing of the merger. In the event our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market prior to the closing of the merger, Nasdaq may permit us to transfer our common stock to the Nasdaq Capital Market if we satisfy the requirements for continued listing on that market. If we fail to satisfy the requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading, if any, would be conducted in the over-the-counter market either in the so-called “pink sheets” or on the OTC Bulletin Board, provided a market maker determines to provide quotations for our common stock and complies with the rules and regulations of the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority for the quotation of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we would satisfy the requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market or that any market maker would determine to provide quotations for our common stock. As a result, delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market could hinder your ability to sell your shares of Avalon common stock. In addition, our common stock could become subject to the SEC’s “penny stock rules.” These rules would impose additional requirements on broker-dealers who effect trades in our stock. If any of these events were to take place, you may not be able to sell as many shares of our common stock as you desire, or any at all, and any trading of our common stock may be at a lower market price than it otherwise would be if our common stock were to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. We have no products approved for commercial sale and do not expect to have any products approved for commercial sale for the next several years. 19 The drug discovery and development process is highly uncertain, and we have not developed, and may never develop, a drug candidate that ultimately leads to a commercial product. We do not have any drugs approved for commercial sale and, at any time, we may decide to discontinue the development of our drug candidates or not to commercialize a candidate. The drug discovery methods we employ through AvalonRx ® are new and unproven and may not lead to the development of commercially viable drugs. The drug discovery methods we employ through AvalonRx ® that are based upon gene expression analysis are new and, in several ways, unproven. For instance, our drug discovery technology profiles the effects of compounds on thousands of genes in a cell rather than an isolated target, a process that is novel and unproven in its usefulness to develop commercially viable drugs. There is limited scientific understanding generally relating to the regulation of gene expression and the role of genes in complex diseases, and relatively few products based on gene discoveries have been developed and commercialized by drug manufacturers. Even if we are successful in identifying compounds that show effects on the pathways that cells use to control the expression of genes associated with cancer, these discoveries may not lead to the development of effective drugs. If we fail to enter into new strategic collaborations, or if existing collaborations are terminated, we will not grow our revenue and our ability to exploit AvalonRx ® to discover drugs for diseases other than cancer will be limited; our rights to AvalonRx® are limited. Our business strategy is based in part upon entering into strategic collaborations. To date, all of our revenue has been generated from strategic collaborations, and we continue to rely on our strategic collaborations with Merck, Inc., AstraZeneca, Inc., Medarex, Inc. and Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Inc. as a means of furthering our research initiatives. Both the Merck and AstraZeneca collaborations have provisions that could result in their termination without material breach by Avalon. If we are unable to secure strategic collaborations in the future, or if existing collaborations are terminated prematurely, our revenue will not grow or will decrease and our business will be harmed. Strategic collaborations also provide us with insights into diseases other than cancer by exposing us to the expertise of collaboration partners which focus on these diseases. If we are unable to secure strategic collaborations which expand our disease expertise, we may harm our ability to broaden our drug discovery and development activities to diseases other than cancer. In addition, we have exclusively licensed AvalonRx® to Clinical Data. As a result, we are prohibited from continuing to use AvalonRx® for drug discovery and validation except with respect to the performance of our obligations under our existing collaboration agreements and with respect to the development of our current clinical and preclinical drug development programs. This limitation on our ability to use AvalonRx® could negatively impact our future operations. We face intense competition in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Our business will be harmed if our competitors develop and market drugs that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than our drug candidates. With respect to our drug discovery programs, other companies have drug candidates in clinical trials to treat types of cancer for which we are seeking to discover and develop drug candidates. These competing drugs are further advanced in development than are any of our drug candidates and may result in effective, commercially successful drugs. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our products may not receive marketing approval or, if they do, may not be approved for a disease or with labeling that allows our products to compete effectively with or other commercial products. Our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing drugs either that are more effective than those that we may develop or that are marketed before any drugs we develop are marketed. In the area of small molecule anticancer therapeutics, we have identified a number of companies that have clinical development programs and focused research and development efforts in small molecule approaches to cancer treatment, such as Anadys Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc., ArQule, Inc., Array Biopharma, Inc., Biocryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Chemgenex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Exelixis, Inc., Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sunesis Pharmac euticals, Inc. In addition, large pharmaceutical companies with significant research capabilities are or may be pursuing similar approaches. 20 Many of the organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, these organizations also compete with us to: • attract qualified personnel; • attract parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations; and • license technology that is competitive with our technology. We may face liability claims related to the use or misuse of our drug candidates in clinical trials. If our insurance coverage is not sufficient, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. The administration of our drug candidates to humans in clinical trials may expose us to liability claims. Such liability claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. We have obtained liability coverage for clinical trials. However, we cannot be certain that our insurance policies will be sufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. We intend to increase our coverage limits as we progress into late-stage clinical trials. Liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. Generally, our clinical trials will be conducted in patients with serious life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and, during the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical effects or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our drug candidates. Any of these events could result in a claim of liability. Any such claims against us, regardless of their merit, could result in significant awards against us, or significant costs to defend, that could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, which may result in a decrease in the price of our common stock. Our future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • the introduction of new anticancer drugs by us or our competitors; • costs and expenses associated with delays in or changes to preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the timing of regulatory approvals; • sales and marketing expenses; and • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business operations and facilities. It is possible that in some future periods our operating results may be below the expectations of analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our common stock may decrease. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our drug candidates, our business could be materially harmed. We have a number of pending patent applications covering our gene expression technology and select novel compounds. We intend to file United States and foreign patent applications for our new inventions, as well as on improvements we make to our existing proprietary technologies that are important to the development of our business. However, we may not file patent applications in all countries in which we could seek patent protection. We 21 cannot assure you that any patents that may be issued or that may be licensed to us will be enforceable or valid or will not expire prior to the commercialization of our drug candidates, allowing others to more effectively compete with us. Therefore, any patents that we may own in the future or license may not adequately protect our drug candidates or any drugs we market in the future. If we are not able to protect our patent positions, our business could be materially harmed. Issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, court decisions may introduce uncertainty in the enforceability or scope of patents owned by biotechnology companies. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, the enforceability or scope of our future patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we may potentially own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties. Third parties may challenge the validity of our potential patents or other intellectual property rights and could deprive us of valuable rights. If we infringe patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur substantial liability. If a third party legally challenges our future patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or license, we could lose certain of these rights. For example, third parties may challenge the validity of our patent applications and any future issued U.S. or foreign patents through reexaminations, oppositions or other legal proceedings. If successful, a challenge to our intellectual property rights could deprive us of competitive advantages and permit our competitors to use our technology to develop similar drug candidates. Failure to protect our future patents and other proprietary rights may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. We use chip-based microarray technology under a license from a manufacturer. We may not be able to continue to obtain supplies and materials from that manufacturer or obtain suitable substitutes, at commercially reasonable terms, or at all. To the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products or processes, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Third parties may have or obtain valid and enforceable patents or proprietary rights that could block us from developing drug candidates using our technology. Moreover, our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, legal or administrative proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any such proceeding, irrespective of the outcome, we may incur substantial costs, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel may be diverted, which could materially harm our business. Our drug discovery technology is not patented, and the value of our technology and drug candidates could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets. Our AvalonRx ® drug discovery technology is not patented. Instead, we rely primarily on trade secrets to protect it. Trade secrets are difficult to maintain. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our, or our collaboration partners’, employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, foreign courts are sometimes less willing than U.S. courts to protect trade secrets. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how related to AvalonRx ® , we would not be able to assert or prevent them from doing so and our business could be harmed. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us 22 during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Preclinical and clinical testing are time consuming, expensive, and uncertain processes. Before the FDA approves a drug candidate for marketing, it is tested for safety and efficacy in preclinical testing and human clinical trials. The preclinical phase involves the discovery, characterization, product formulation and animal testing necessary to prepare an IND for submission to the FDA. The IND must be accepted by the FDA before the drug can be tested in humans in the United States. The clinical phase of development follows a successful IND submission and involves the activities necessary to demonstrate the safety, tolerability, efficacy, dose and dose schedule of the product candidate in humans, as well as the ability to produce the substance in accordance with cGMP requirements. Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. It may take us several years to complete our testing, and failure can occur at any stage of the process. During the process, we expect to incur significant expenses to conduct trials and follow required regulatory processes. We do not know whether our IND for future products or the protocols for any future clinical trials will be accepted by the FDA. We do not know if our clinical trials will begin or be completed on schedule or at all. Even if completed, we do not know if these trials will produce clinically meaningful results sufficient to support an application for marketing approval. The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • a limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of cancer for enrollment in clinical trials; • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory clearance to commence a clinical trial; • delays or failures in obtaining sufficient clinical materials; • delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites; and • delays or failures in obtaining Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; • failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy during clinical trials; • inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and • regulatory action by the FDA for failure to comply with regulatory requirements. 23 Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, or by us. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our drug candidates could harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidates. For example, in 2007 we discontinued enrollment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia because of difficulty interpreting the safety profile in these patients. If we achieve success at any stage of the clinical trial process, that success may not continue. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Interim results of trials do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. For example, a single partial response or even a small number of partial responses in cancer patients is not necessarily indicative of success in demonstrating efficacy in Phase II and Phase III clinical trials. Other reasons why candidates that appear promising in preclinical testing or clinical trials may fail to become marketed drugs include: • failing to demonstrate clinical effectiveness or having significantly lower efficacy than existing therapies; • producing harmful side effects; • denial of regulatory approvals by the FDA or other regulators; • failing to acquire, on reasonable terms, intellectual property rights necessary for commercialization; and • loss of market to competing drugs which are more effective or economical. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated. In addition, the FDA could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results and require us to alter the design of the clinical trial or terminate the clinical trial altogether. If we need to alter a clinical trial design or perform more or larger clinical trials than planned, our financial results will be harmed. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, we will be subject to ongoing government regulation. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, our products will be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record keeping requirements, submitting periodic reports to the FDA, reporting of any adverse experiences with the product, and complying with drug sampling and distribution requirements. In addition, updated safety and efficacy information must be maintained and provided to the FDA. We or our collaborative partners must comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling, including the prohibition against promoting any non-FDA approved or “off-label” indications of products. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant enforcement action by the FDA, including warning letters, orders to pull the promotional materials, and substantial fines. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval. Drug and biologics manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their facilities and products manufactured annually with the FDA and certain state agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA to assess compliance with cGMP regulations. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMPs and other aspects of regulatory compliance. Future FDA inspections may identify compliance issues at our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution or require substantial resources to correct. 24 In addition, following FDA approval of a product, discovery of problems with a product or the failure to comply with requirements may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer, or holder of an approved marketing application, including withdrawal or recall of the product from the market or other voluntary or FDA-initiated action that could delay or prevent further marketing. Newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may require changes to a product’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications. Also, the FDA may require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the product’s safety or efficacy, including additional clinical studies, known as Phase IV trials, to evaluate long-term effects. Compliance with post-marketing regulation may be time-consuming and costly and could delay or prevent us from generating revenue from the commercialization of our drug candidates. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs which may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We have only limited experience in preparing and submitting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain timely regulatory approval, if we receive such approval at all. We will not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates until we obtain FDA approval in the United States or approval by comparable authorities in other countries. Third parties engaged to produce our drug candidates for clinical use may fail to comply with regulatory requirements, which could delay clinical trials. We intend to rely on third parties to produce drug candidates for clinical use. All facilities and manufacturing processes used by third parties to produce our drug candidates for clinical use in the United States must conform with cGMPs. These facilities and practices are subject to periodic regulatory inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP requirements. Their failure to comply with applicable regulations could extend, delay, or cause the termination of clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates. Our operations involve hazardous materials and medical waste and are subject to environmental, health and safety controls and regulations. Any claim relating to our improper handing, storage or disposal of biological and hazardous materials could be time-consuming and costly, and may exceed our resources. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of biological and hazardous materials as well as medical waste. The cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations is substantial. Our business activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with all material rules and regulations governing the use of hazardous materials and, to date, we have not had any adverse experiences, in the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves animal testing and changes in laws, regulations or accepted clinical procedures or social pressures could restrict our use of animals in testing and adversely affect our research and development efforts. Many of the research and development efforts we sponsor involve the use of laboratory animals. Changes in laws, regulations or accepted clinical procedures may adversely affect these research and development efforts. Social pressures that would restrict the use of animals in testing or actions against us or our partners by groups or individuals opposed to testing using animals could also adversely affect these research and development efforts. In addition, preclinical animal studies conducted by us or third parties on our behalf may be subject to the United States Department of Agriculture regulations for certain animal species. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could extend or delay clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 