Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business has many risks. Factors that could materially affect our business, financial position, operating results or liquidity and the trading price of our units are described below. This information should be considered carefully, together with other information in this report and other reports and materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We rely on customers from the oil and gas drilling industry for a significant portion of our revenue. New regulations, increases to the cost of drilling, delays in drilling permits or other changes in the industry could have adverse consequences on our future business. Government regulations could impact the timing, cost and global demand for our remote communication services within the drilling industry. Revenues generated from drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were 9.6% and 6.8%, respectively. The recent oil spill from the Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico is causing the United States government to impose additional requirements with respect to development and production activities in the Gulf of Mexico and delay the approval of applications to drill in both deepwater and shallow water areas. We do not yet know the extent to which the Macondo well oil spill and other similar spills that may occur may cause the United States or other countries to restrict or further regulate drilling, exploration and production activities. Any new regulatory requirements relating to drilling, exploration and production activities may increase the cost of these activities and reduce drilling, which would reduce the need for our services. The Macondo well oil spill may have a negative impact on demand, pricing and profitability of our operations and may have increased certain of the risks we face including: • regulations may increase the cost of drilling and reduce drilling activity; • rigs may be cold stacked due to prolonged delays, moratoria or suspensions of drilling; 14 Table of Contents • offshore drilling could be restricted reducing the demand for our services; • rigs may be redeployed to other locations around the globe where we may not have resources or service capacity; • service providers, such as us, may be required to incur costs to comply with new safety and insurance requirements; • consolidation may occur within the drilling industry causing us to lose customers; and • our contracts may be cancelled or not renewed. If the United States or other countries where we operate enact stricter restrictions on drilling, exploration and production activities or if any of the other risks described above occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Any loss of a rig on which our equipment is located will likely lead to a complete loss of our equipment on that rig and a loss of the revenue related to that rig. At the commencement of a new service contract for a rig, we generally install approximately $100,000 to $400,000 worth of equipment on each offshore drilling rig. If a rig were to sink or incur substantial damage for any reason, we would most likely lose all of our equipment. We do not insure for such losses as we believe the cost of such insurance outweighs the risk of potential loss. In addition to the loss of the equipment, we would likely lose the revenue related to that rig under the terms of most of our existing contracts. Also, we may be committed to paying the costs to secure satellite bandwidth for that rig under agreements with third party satellite communication providers even after the rig is no longer in service. For example, on May 13, 2010, Petro Marine’s Aban Pearl semi-submersible drilling rig sank offshore Venezuela causing a $0.3 million loss of our equipment and a $2.9 million loss of future revenue to us through 2013 assuming completion of our contract with Petro Marine. In the case of the Aban Pearl, we were able to cancel the satellite bandwidth contract associated with this rig limiting our cost exposure, however, this may not always be viable in the future. Losses of rigs can occur as a result of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fire or sinking. Recent industry events include two reported drilling rig losses, including the Transocean Horizon, which was not being serviced by us, and the Aban Pearl. Such catastrophic events can occur without notice, but have historically been infrequent. Many of our contracts with customers may be terminated by our customers on short notice without penalty, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customers may switch service providers without incurring significant expense relative to the annual cost of the service, and our agreements generally provide that in the event of prolonged loss of service or for other good reasons, our customers may terminate service without penalty. In addition, many of our customer agreements may be terminated by our customers for no reason and upon short notice. Terms of customer agreements typically vary with a range of one month to three years, with some customer agreement terms as long as five years, and work orders placed under such agreements may have shorter terms than the relevant customer agreement. As a result, we may not be able to retain our customers through the end of the terms specified in the customer agreements. If we are not able to retain our customers, we would not receive expected revenues and may continue to incur costs, such as costs to secure satellite bandwidth for such customers under agreements with third party satellite communication services providers which may not be as easily or as quickly terminated without penalty, resulting in harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of a drilling contractor customer site can limit or eliminate our ability to provide services to other customers on the affected drilling rigs. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from two customers and the loss of either of these customers would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We receive a significant part of our revenue from a relatively small number of large customers. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Noble Corporation and Ensco plc represented approximately 10.6% and 6.5%, 15 Table of Contents respectively, of our consolidated revenue. Similarly, for the year ended December 31, 2009, these two significant customers, Noble Corporation and Ensco plc, represented approximately 10.9% and 7.3%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue. If either of these two customers terminates or significantly reduces its business with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. Our industry is highly competitive and if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. The telecommunications industry is generally highly competitive, and we expect both product and pricing competition to persist and intensify. Increased competition could cause reduced revenue, price reductions, reduced profits and loss of market share. Our industry is characterized by competitive pressures to provide enhanced functionality for the same or lower price with each new generation of technology. As the prices of our products decrease, we will need to sell more products and/or reduce the per-unit costs to improve or maintain our results of operations. Our competitors include Harris Corporation and the Stratos Broadband Division of Inmarsat plc, as well as many regional competitors. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial and other resources for developing new solutions as well as for recruiting and retaining qualified personnel. Their greater financial resources may also make them better able to withstand downturns in the market, expand into new areas more aggressively or operate in developing markets without immediate financial returns. In addition, in certain markets outside of the United States, we face competition from local competitors that provide their services at a lower price due to lower overhead costs, including lower costs of complying with applicable government regulations, and due to their willingness to provide services for a lower profit margin. Strong competition and significant investments by competitors to develop new and better solutions may make it difficult for us to maintain our customer base, force us to reduce our prices or increase our costs to develop new solutions. Furthermore, competition may emerge from companies that we have previously not perceived as competitors or consolidation of our industry may cause existing competitors to become bigger and stronger with more resources, market awareness and market share. As we expand into new markets and geographic regions we may experience increased competition from some of our competitors that have prior experience or other business in these markets or geographic regions. In addition, some of our customers may decide to insource some of the communications services and managed services solutions that we provide, in particular our terrestrial communication services (e.g., terrestrial line-of-sight transport, microwave, Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access, or WiMax), which do not require the same level of maintenance and support as our other services. Our success will depend on our ability to adapt to these competitive forces, to adapt to technological advances, to develop more advanced products more rapidly and less expensively than our competitors, to continue to develop an international sales network, and to educate potential customers about the benefits of using our solutions rather than our competitors’ products and services or in sourced solutions. Our failure to successfully respond to these competitive challenges could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties to provide products and services for the operation of our business. Failures by third party providers could harm our business and reputation and result in loss of customers and revenue. A significant part of our operations and growth depends on third party providers delivering reliable communications connections, networks, equipment, and satellite transponder capacity, subjecting our business, reputation and customer revenue to risks beyond our control, such as: • telecommunications failures; • saturation of communication connection points, networks and third-party facilities • in-orbit risks for satellites including malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris; • satellite manufacturing or control system errors ; 16 Table of Contents • lack of communication service alternatives; • providing access to faulty equipment; • human error; • natural disasters; • unexpected equipment failure; • power loss; • unauthorized access or security risks; and • sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism. Even if we take precautions, the occurrence of any of these risks or other unanticipated problems arising from third party services could result in interruption in the services we provide to customers. Any of these occurrences could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure on our part to perform under our customer service contracts due to the failures of our third party providers could result in: (i) loss of revenue despite continued obligations under our leasing arrangements; (ii) possible cancellation of customer contracts; (iii) incurrence of additional expenses to reposition customer antennas to alternative satellites or otherwise find alternate service (iv) inclusion in third party claims; and (v) damage to our reputation, which could negatively affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new business. Under most of our contracts with satellite service providers, our satellite service providers do not indemnify us for such loss or damage to our business resulting from satellite failures. If any potential claims result in liabilities, we could be required to pay damages or other penalties, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks and any unauthorized access to our clients’ data or systems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully obtain or use information on the network or cause interruptions, delays or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. In addition, our customer contracts, in general, do not contain provisions which would protect us against liability to third-parties with whom our customers conduct business. Although we have implemented and intend to continue to implement industry standard security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower system availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete for satellite capacity for our services and any capacity constraints could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete for satellite capacity with a number of commercial entities, such as broadcasting companies, and governmental entities, such as the military. In certain markets, the availability and pricing of capacity could be subject to competitive pressure, such as during renewals, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure the capacity needed to conduct our operations at current rates or levels going forward. This could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In certain markets, the availability of bandwidth may be restricted by the local government when needed to support its military, and in the event of such an action, there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure the capacity needed to conduct our 17 Table of Contents operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers to provide key portions of our equipment and the loss of any of these key suppliers could materially harm our ability to service our clients and could result in loss of customers and harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations revenue. We currently rely upon and expect to continue to rely upon a limited number of third-party suppliers to supply the equipment required to provide our services, such as the equipment we install on offshore drilling rigs in order to provide remote communication services. Although this equipment is commercially available from more than one supplier, there are a limited number of suppliers of such equipment and price and quality vary among suppliers. If the suppliers enter into competition with us, or if our competitors enter into exclusive or restrictive arrangements with our suppliers, the availability and pricing of the equipment that we purchase could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we like to use a small group of suppliers and standardized equipment as much as possible so that we are installing generally the same equipment and we can maintain smaller quantities of replacement parts and equipment in our warehouses. If we have to change suppliers for any reason, we will incur additional costs due to the lack of uniformity and need to warehouse a broader array of replacement parts and equipment. If we fail to upgrade our information technology systems effectively, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As part of our efforts to continue improving our internal control over financial reporting, we plan to continue to upgrade our existing financial information technology systems in order to automate controls that are currently being performed manually. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to these upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity, as personnel become familiar with these new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and as our business needs change, which could prolong any difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. We must also integrate these systems with our international operations so that the data produced may be utilized around the world. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems or respond to changes in our business needs, we may not be able to effectively manage our business and we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, as a result of the automation of these manual processes, the data produced may cause us to question the accuracy of previously reported financial results. We are subject to the volatility of the global oil and gas industry and our business is likely to fluctuate with the level of global activity for oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Our business depends on the oil and natural gas industry and particularly on the level of activity for oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Demand for our remote communication services and collaborative applications depends on our customers’ willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the regions in which we operate or may operate. Our business will suffer if these expenditures decline. Our customers’ willingness to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas depends largely upon prevailing market conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including: • the supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • oil and natural gas prices and expectations about future prices; • the expected rate of decline in production; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to influence and maintain production levels and pricing; 18 Table of Contents • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas of the Middle East and other crude oil and natural gas producing regions or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere; • the impact of changing regulations and environmental and safety rules and policies following oil spills and other pollution by the oil and gas industry; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the global economic environment; • the political and legislative framework governing the activities of oil and natural gas companies; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. The level of activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry has historically been volatile and cyclical. Although we believe our customers will be dependent upon real-time voice and data communication services to optimize their oil and gas production and development in an environment with lower energy prices, a prolonged significant reduction in the price of oil and natural gas will likely affect oil and natural gas production levels and therefore affect demand for the communication services we provide. In addition, a prolonged significant reduction in the price of oil and natural gas could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding account receivables from our customers. A material decline in oil and natural gas prices or oil and natural gas exploration, development or production activity levels could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Bad weather in the Gulf of Mexico or other areas where we operate could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico and other areas in which our clients operate experience unfavorable weather conditions, including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions, on a relatively frequent basis. A major storm or threat of a major storm in these areas may harm our business. Our clients’ drilling rigs, production platforms and other vessels in these areas are susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms, which may cause them to no longer need our communication services. Our equipment on these rigs, platforms or vessels could be damaged causing us to have service interruptions and lose business. Even the threat of a very large storm will sometimes cause our clients to limit activities in an area and thus harm our business. An increase in the size of our U.S. land segment relative to our other segments could decrease our margins and increase the volatility of our operating results. Our U.S. land segment is characterized by higher rate competition and shorter term contracts than our western hemisphere or eastern hemisphere segments. In addition, the number of operating U.S. land drilling rigs is more cyclical and volatile than the number of operating offshore drilling rigs in our western hemisphere or eastern hemisphere segments. Drilling rig counts, and accordingly, demand for our service, and thus our revenue, may change in as little as three months for our U.S. land operations in response to oil and gas prices. Thus if the size of our U.S. land segment increases relative to the size of our western hemisphere and eastern hemisphere segments, our overall margins may decrease and the volatility of our operating results may increase. Geographic expansion may reduce our operating margins. When we expand into a new geographic area, we incur set up costs for new personnel, office facilities, travel, inventory and related expenses in advance of securing new customer contracts. In addition, we may price our services more aggressively as we seek to obtain market share in the new region. As a result, our results of operations may decline while we are pursuing such geographic expansion. In addition, failure to 19 Table of Contents effectively manage our growth in a cost-effective manner could result in declines in service quality and customer satisfaction, increased costs or disruption of our operations. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult for us to adequately predict the investments we will need to make in the future to effectively manage our world-wide operations. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could compromise our ability to effectively manage our business and pursue our growth strategy. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, development, sales, services and management personnel. In particular, we are heavily dependent on the following three key employees: Mark B. Slaughter, our Chief Executive Officer and President, who has been critical to establishing our strategy and executing on our business model over the past four years; Morten Hansen, our Vice President of Global Engineering, who is the technical architect of our global network and who is responsible for our global network’s reliability, performance and security and the evaluation of technological developments and their impact on our business; and Lars Eliassen, our Vice President & General Manager, Europe Middle East Africa, who has knowledge across many aspects of our Company, including sales, marketing and operations and who is critical to maintaining some of our key customer relationships. The loss of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be costly and time consuming, could cause additional disruptions to our business, and could be unsuccessful. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, development, sales, services and management personnel, including personnel in all of the various regions of the world in which we operate. The current increase in the activity level in the oil and gas industry and the limited supply of skilled labor has made the competition to retain and recruit qualified personnel intense. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could reduce our skilled labor force, increase the wages that we must pay to motivate, retain or recruit skilled employees or both. In addition, wage inflation and the cost of retaining our key personnel in the face of competition for such personnel may increase our costs faster than we may offset these costs with increased prices or increased sales volume. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. We have experienced rapid growth in our business in recent periods, which has strained our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We plan to continue to grow our business and anticipate that continued growth of our operations will be required to satisfy increasing customer demand and avail ourselves of new market opportunities. The expanding scope and geographic breadth of our business and growth in the number of our employees, customers and locations will continue to place a significant strain on our management team, information technology systems and other resources and may distract key personnel from other key operations. To properly manage our growth, we may need to hire and retain personnel, upgrade our existing operational, management and financial reporting systems, and improve our business processes and controls and implement those processes and controls in all of our geographic locations. Failure to effectively manage our growth in a cost-effective manner could result in declines in service quality and customer satisfaction, increased costs or disruption of our operations. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult for us to adequately predict the investments we will need to make in the future to effectively manage our world-wide operations. We may need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy or continue our operations, and if we are unable to do so, our growth may be impaired. We plan to pursue a growth strategy. We have made significant investments to grow our business. Additional investments will be required to pursue further growth and to respond to technological innovations and competition. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain additional financing or financing on favorable terms. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, or at all, we may be unable to expand our 20 Table of Contents business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Our term loan agreement places financial restrictions and operating restrictions on our business, which may limit our flexibility to respond to opportunities and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our term loan agreement restricts and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our term loan agreement restricts our ability to: • dispose of property; • enter into a merger, consolidate or acquire capital in other entities; • incur additional indebtedness; • incur liens on the property secured by the term loan agreement; • make certain investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • pay cash dividends; • commit to make capital expenditures not in the ordinary course of business; and • enter into sales and lease back transactions. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. Our term loan agreement also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our compliance with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures, finance acquisitions, equipment purchases and development expenditures, or withstand a future downturn in our business. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our term loan agreement may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our term loan agreement, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, that financing may not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. If we are unable to repay amounts borrowed, the holders of the debt could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding against the collateral. In addition, our obligations under our term loan agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our term loan agreement, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. If we infringe or if third parties assert that we infringe third party intellectual property rights we could incur significant costs and incur significant harm to our business. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, which could result in substantial damages if it is ultimately determined that our services infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. Even if claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management’s attention from our other business concerns. 21 Table of Contents Most of our contracts are on a fixed price basis and if our costs increase, we may not be able to recover these cost increases. Most of our contracts provide for a fixed price per month for our services. If our costs increase to provide those services, such as the cost to secure bandwidth or personnel costs, we may not be able to offset some or all of our increased costs by increasing the rates we charge our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our contracts are governed by non-U.S. law, which may make them more difficult or expensive to enforce than contracts governed by United States law. Many of our customer contracts are governed by non-U.S. law, which may create both legal and practical difficulties in case of a dispute or conflict. We operate in regions where the ability to protect contractual and other legal rights may be limited compared to regions with better-established legal systems. In addition, having to pursue litigation in a non-U.S. country may be more difficult or expensive than pursuing litigation in the United States. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and if we fail to keep up with these changes or if access to telecommunications in remote locations becomes easier or less expensive, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. The telecommunications industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology, new evolving standards, emerging competition and frequent new product and service introductions. As an example of technological change, in August 2010, Inmarsat plc announced a major commitment to a new constellation of satellites using the Ka frequency band, compared to our use of the Ku-band and C-band satellite space segment today. When this Ka-band service is available a few years from now, we will have to adapt to its use, which might impair our business if other providers are more successful in using the Ka-band to meet customer needs than we are. Our future business prospects largely depend on our ability to meet changing customer preferences, to anticipate and respond to technological changes and to develop competitive products. If telecommunications to remote locations becomes more readily accessible or less expensive than our services, our business will suffer. New disruptive technologies could make our VSAT-based networks or other services obsolete or less competitive than they are today, requiring us to reduce the prices that we are able to charge for our services. We may not be able to successfully respond to new technological developments and challenges or identify and respond to new market opportunities, services or products offered by competitors. In addition, our efforts to respond to technological innovations and competition may require significant capital investments and resources. Furthermore, we may not have the necessary resources to respond to new technological changes and innovations and emerging competition. Failure to keep up with future technological changes could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our potential clients are resistant to new solutions and technologies which may limit our growth. Although there is a strong focus on technology development within the oil industry, some of the companies in the upstream oil and gas industry are relatively conservative and risk adverse with respect to adopting new solutions and technologies. Some drilling contractors, oil and gas companies and oilfield service companies may choose not to adopt new solutions and technology, such as our remote communications and collaboration applications solutions, which may limit our growth potential. The market for IP/MPLS based communication services is in a relatively early stage, and some oil and gas companies may choose not to adopt our IP/ MPLS based communications technology. This may in turn limit our growth. We may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for our provision of telecommunication services, and we may face changes in regulation, each of which could adversely affect our operations. In a number of countries where we operate, the provision of telecommunication services is highly regulated. In such countries, we are required to obtain approvals from national and local authorities in 22 Table of Contents connection with most of the services that we provide. In many jurisdictions, we must maintain such approvals through compliance with license conditions or payment of annual regulatory fees. Many of our customers utilize our services on mobile vessels or drilling platforms that may enter into new countries on short notice. If we do not already have a license to provide our service in that country, we may be required to obtain a license or other regulatory approval on short notice, which may not be feasible in some countries. Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could subject us to various sanctions including fines, penalties, arrests or criminal charges, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations or cause us to delay or terminate our service to such vessel or platform until such license or regulatory approval may be obtained. In some areas of international waters, it is ambiguous as to which country’s regulations apply, if any, and thus difficult and costly for us to determine which licenses or other regulatory approvals we should obtain. In such areas, we could be subject to various penalties or sanctions if we fail to comply with the applicable country’s regulations. Future changes to the regulations under which we operate could make it difficult for us to obtain or maintain authorizations, increase our costs or make it easier or less expensive for our competitors to compete with us. Changes in the regulatory framework under which we operate could adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations. Our domestic services are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are therefore subject to light regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and other federal, state and local agencies. As a private carrier, we may not market and provide telecommunications service to the general public or otherwise hold our services out “indifferently” to the public as a common carrier. As a private carrier, we are not entitled to certain rights afforded to or subject to certain obligations imposed on common carriers. Our international operations are regulated by various non-U.S. governments and international bodies. These regulatory regimes frequently require that we maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. The adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes to the FCC’s USF Regime or state universal service fund regimes or findings that we have not complied with USF requirements or state universal service fund regimes may adversely affect our financial condition. A proceeding pending before the FCC has the potential to significantly alter our Universal Service Fund, or USF, contribution obligations. The FCC is considering changing the basis upon which USF contributions are determined from a revenue percentage measurement, as well as increasing the breadth of the USF contribution base to include certain services now exempt from contribution. Adoption of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our costs, our ability to separately list USF contributions on end-user bills, and our ability to collect these fees from our customers. We are unable to predict the timing or outcome of this proceeding. We cannot predict the application and impact of changes to the federal or state universal service fund contribution requirements on the communications industry generally and on certain of our business activities in particular. We are currently reassessing the nature and extent of our federal and state universal service fund obligations. If the FCC or any state determines that we have incorrectly calculated or failed to remit any required universal service fund contribution, we could be subject to the assessment and collection of past due remittances as well as interest and penalties thereon. Changes in the federal or state universal service fund requirements or findings that we have not met our obligations could materially increase our universal service 23 Table of Contents fund contributions and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to a variety of federal and state regulatory actions that may affect our ability to operate. Federal and state telecommunications regulators have the right to sanction a service provider or to revoke licenses if a service provider violates applicable laws or regulations. If any regulatory agency were to conclude that we were providing telecommunications services without the appropriate authority or are otherwise not in compliance with applicable regulations, the agency could initiate enforcement actions, which could result in, among other things, revocation of authority, the imposition of fines, a requirement to disgorge revenues, or refusal to grant regulatory authority necessary for the future provision of services. Our operations in Qatar have historically benefited from restrictions on telecommunication services that have kept many of our competitors from providing their services in Qatar, but the recent easing of these restrictions may increase competition and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Qatar, like many countries in which we operate, has strict regulations on telecommunication services. Historically, we have complied with those regulations and are able to operate there, but many of our competitors were unable to obtain the necessary approvals and licenses to provide their services in Qatar. Qatar has recently granted three additional VSAT licenses to telecommunications providers. In addition, Qatar has imposed new fees and taxes, which will have a negative effect on the profitability of our operations. Further, we anticipate that, as a result of the new licenses, we may face increased competition in the future and our business may be harmed as a result of the increased competition. Our business operations in countries outside the United States are subject to a number of United States federal laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of Treasury and the United States Department of Commerce, which could adversely affect our operations if violated. We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. We cannot provide services to certain countries subject to United States trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Asset Control of the United States Department of the Treasury or the United States Department of Commerce unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act that, generally, prohibits bribes or unreasonable gifts to non-U.S. governments or officials. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, and more extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. In certain countries, we engage third party agents or intermediaries to act on our behalf in dealings with government officials, such as customs agents, and if these third party agents or intermediaries violate applicable laws, their actions may result in penalties or sanctions being assessed against us. Our international operations are subject to additional or different risks than our United States operations, which may harm our business and financial results. We operate in approximately 30 countries around the world, including countries in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Europe and intend to continue to expand the number of countries in which we operate. There are many risks inherent in conducting business internationally that are in addition to or different than those affecting our United States operations, including: • sometimes vague and confusing regulatory requirements that may be subject to unexpected changes or interpretations; • import and export restrictions; 24 Table of Contents • tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulty in staffing and managing geographically dispersed operations and culturally diverse work forces and increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • differences in employment laws and practices among different countries, including restrictions on terminating employees; • differing technology standards; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • imposition of currency exchange controls; • potential political and economic instability in some regions; • legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business; • less due process and sometimes arbitrary application of laws and sanctions, including criminal charges and arrests; • difficulties in raising awareness of applicable United States laws to our agents and third party intermediaries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting receivables; • difficulties and expense of maintaining international sales distribution channels; and • difficulties in maintaining and protecting our intellectual property. Operating internationally exposes our business to increased regulatory and political risks in some non-U.S. jurisdictions where we operate. In addition to changes in laws and regulations, changes in governments or changes in governmental policies in these jurisdictions may alter current interpretation of laws and regulations affecting our business. We also face increased risk of incidents such as war or other international conflict and nationalization, and possible expropriation of our assets. If a non-U.S. country were to nationalize our industry or expropriate our assets, we could lose not only our investment in the assets that we have in that country, but also all of our contracts and business in that country. Many of the countries in which we operate have legal systems that are less developed and less predictable than legal systems in Western Europe or the United States. It may be difficult for us to obtain effective legal redress in the courts of some jurisdictions, whether in respect of a breach of law or regulation, or in an ownership dispute because of: (i) a high degree of discretion on the part of governmental authorities, which results in less predictability; (ii) a lack of judicial or administrative guidance on interpreting applicable rules and regulations; (iii) inconsistencies or conflicts between or within various laws, regulations, decrees, orders and resolutions; (iv) the relative inexperience of the judiciary and courts in such matters or (v) a predisposition in favor of local claimants against United States companies. In certain jurisdictions, the commitment of local business people, government officials and agencies and the judicial system to abide by legal requirements and negotiated agreements may be unreliable. In particular, agreements may be susceptible to revision or cancellation and legal redress may be uncertain or time-consuming. Actions of governmental authorities or officers may adversely affect joint ventures, licenses, license applications or other legal arrangements, and such arrangements in these jurisdictions may not be effective or enforced. The authorities in the countries where we operate may introduce additional regulations for the oil and gas and communications industries with respect to, but not limited to, various laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, 25 Table of Contents water use, labor standards, occupational health network access and other matters. New rules and regulations may be enacted or existing rules and regulations may be applied or interpreted in a manner which could limit our ability to provide our services. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities in the oil and gas industry and telecommunications industry could harm our operations and financial results. Compliance with and changes in tax laws or adverse positions taken by taxing authorities could be costly and could affect our operating results. Compliance related tax issues could also limit our ability to do business in certain countries. Changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various taxing authorities, disagreements with taxing authorities over our tax positions and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets; • repatriation of cash; or • expiration or non-utilization of net operating losses or credits. We conduct our worldwide operations through various subsidiaries. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate, including treaties between the United States and other nations. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, including those in and involving the United States, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. In addition, tax returns filed are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Outcomes from these continuous examinations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our 2008 United States federal income tax return is currently under audit by the United States Internal Revenue Service. We may incur material costs to support the audit and /or defend our tax positions. We are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and limitations on the expatriation or conversion of currencies, which may result in significant financial charges, increased costs of operations or decreased demand for our products and services. During the year ended December 31, 2010, 22.5% of our revenues were earned in non-U.S. currencies, while a significant portion of our capital and operating expenditures and all of our outstanding debt, was priced in U.S. dollars. In addition, we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our earnings or the value of our assets. In the future, a greater portion of our revenues may be earned in non-U.S. currencies, increasing this risk of fluctuations in exchange rates. Any depreciation of local currencies in the countries in which we conduct business may result in increased costs to us for imported equipment and may, at the same time, decrease demand for our products and services in the affected markets. If our operating companies distribute dividends in local currencies in the 26 Table of Contents future, the amount of cash we receive will also be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. In addition, some of the countries in which we have operations do or may restrict the expatriation or conversion of currency. We have not implemented any hedging strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies, not every exposure can be hedged, and, where hedges are put in place based on expected non-U.S. exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts which may vary or which may later prove to have been inaccurate. Failure to hedge successfully or anticipate currency risks accurately could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a public company we incur additional cost and face increased demands on our management and key employees. We have operated as a public company only since December 15, 2010. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, imposes various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel devote substantial amounts of time to these requirements. Moreover, these requirements have significantly increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. These rules and regulations also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We estimate that the incremental annual public company costs will be between $2.0 million and $2.5 million in fiscal 2011, which will primarily be reflected in general and administrative costs. However, these estimates may prove to be inaccurate as many of these costs are beyond our control, and the actual incremental costs associated with our public company status could materially exceed our estimates. If our profitability is harmed by these additional costs, it could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In prior periods, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls that could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Although no material weaknesses were identified for the year ended December 31, 2010, if we do not maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, it could impair our ability to comply with the accounting and reporting requirements applicable to public companies. In relation to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. No material weaknesses in our internal controls were identified in relation to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010. A “deficiency” in internal control over financial reporting exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect and correct misstatements on a timely basis. A deficiency in design exists when (a) a control necessary to meet the control objective is missing, or (b) an existing control is not properly designed so that, even if the control operates as designed, the control objective would not be met. A deficiency in operation exists when (a) a properly designed control does not operate as designed, or (b) the person performing the control does not possess the necessary authority or competence to perform the control effectively. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s financial statements will not be prevented, or detected and corrected on a timely basis. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing their audit procedures, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If such an evaluation had been performed or when we are required to have them perform such an evaluation, additional material weaknesses may have been or may be identified. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be evaluated frequently. We 27 Table of Contents incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies relating to internal controls, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Because of the material weakness identified, there is heightened risk that a material misstatement of our annual or quarterly financial statements relating to the periods that the material weakness existed was not prevented or detected. Although we did not identify any material weaknesses in relation to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, we cannot be certain that similar material weaknesses will not recur in future periods. Our internal growth plans will also put additional strains on our internal controls if we do not augment our resources and adapt our procedures in response to this growth. As a public company, we are required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 regarding internal controls beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. In the event that we have not adequately remedied these deficiencies, and if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in future periods, we could become subject to potential review by the SEC, the NASDAQ or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources, could result in our delisting by the NASDAQ, and could compromise our ability to run our business effectively and could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting. Some of our stockholders could together exert control over our Company. As of March 24, 2011, funds affiliated with Altira Group LLC, or Altira, owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 14.2% of our outstanding voting power. As of March 24, 2011, funds associated with Sanders Morris Harris Group, Inc., or Sanders Morris, owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 13.8% of our outstanding voting power. One managing member of the general partner of Sanders Morris, Charles L. Davis, currently serves on our board of directors. Additionally, as of March 24, 2011, funds associated with Cubera Secondary (GP) AS, or Cubera, owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 26.3% of our outstanding voting power. As a result, these stockholders could together potentially have significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. Sales of outstanding shares of our common stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our existing stockholders sell or indicate an intention to sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially. As of January 31, 2011, approximately 15.3 million shares of our common stock were outstanding. Of these shares, 5.8 million shares of our common stock sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market and more than 99.5% of the remaining outstanding shares , held by 31 parties, are subject to 180-day contractual lock-up agreements with our initial public offering underwriters which expire on June 13, 2011. Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. may, in its discretion, permit our directors, officers, employees and current stockholders who are subject to these contractual lock-ups to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. These lock-ups are subject to extension for up to an additional 34 days under some circumstances. After the lock-up agreements pertaining to the IPO expire, up to an additional approximately 9.5 million shares will be eligible for sale in the public market, approximately 9.0 million of which are held by directors and executive officers and our other affiliates and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. In addition, the approximately 2.4 million shares underlying options that are either subject to the terms of our equity compensation plans or reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans and warrants will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various option agreements, warrants and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. 28 Table of Contents Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third-party to pursue a takeover attempt we oppose even if a change in control of our Company would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. In our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Company, or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting shares, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. However, because funds affiliated with Altira, Sanders Morris and Cubera acquired their shares prior to the IPO, Section 203 is currently inapplicable to any business combination or transaction with them or their affiliates. Our bylaws require that any stockholder proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors must meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts covering our business downgrade their evaluations of or recommendations regarding our stock, or if one or more of the analysts cease providing research coverage on our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease providing research coverage on our stock, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 