Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to historical information, this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, relating to our financial condition, profitability, liquidity, resources, business outlook, proposed acquisitions, market forces, corporate strategies, consumer preferences, contractual commitments, legal matters, capital requirements and other matters. Documents incorporated by reference into this report may also contain forward-looking statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. To comply with the terms of the safe harbor, we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ substantially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements. When words and expressions such as: “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “plans,” “intends,” “objectives,” “goals,” “aims,” “projects,” “forecasts,” “possible,” “seeks,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “might,” “likely” or similar words or expressions are used, as well as phrases such as “in our view,” “there can be no assurance” or “there is no way to anticipate with certainty,” forward-looking statements may be involved. In the section that follows below, in cautionary statements made elsewhere in this report, and in other filings we have made with the SEC, we list important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors described below and other factors set forth in or incorporated by reference in this report. These factors and cautionary statements apply to all future forward-looking statements we make. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Do not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements or project any future results based on such statements or on present or prior earnings levels. Additional information concerning these, or other factors, which could cause the actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in our other SEC filings. Copies of those filings are available from us and/or the SEC. Our Gaming Activities Compete Directly With Other Gaming Facilities And Other Entertainment Businesses We compete in local and regional markets with horse tracks and racinos, off-track betting parlors, state run lotteries, casinos, internet gambling and other forms of gaming. In a broader sense, our gaming operations face 10 competition from all manner of leisure and entertainment activities, including shopping, collegiate and professional athletic events, television and movies, concerts and travel. Most of our gaming competitors are in jurisdictions with a lower tax burden. As gambling opportunities in the region continue to proliferate, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our state or regional market share or be able to compete effectively with our competitors and this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and overall profitability. All states in our geographic region have state-run lotteries. Recent developments in federal law suggest that state run lotteries are no longer prohibited by federal law from offering lottery products or other gaming opportunities over the internet or through mobile applications if permitted by state law. Legislation has been proposed in Congress to regulate various forms of internet gaming at the federal level and a number of states and other jurisdictions (Nevada, Washington D.C., Illinois, Iowa, New York, New Jersey and Delaware among others) are pursuing or exploring the legalization of internet gaming in various forms — from state run lotteries to privately run casino games, including online poker. The introduction or expansion of gaming in neighboring jurisdictions, particularly Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Washington, D.C., Pennsylvania or New Jersey, the proliferation of internet gaming or the legalization of additional gaming venues in Delaware, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Delaware is surrounded by jurisdictions which permit slot machines, such as Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland and West Virginia, and all of these jurisdictions — with the exception of Maryland — also permit table games. Additional gaming venues are expected to open in 2012 in Maryland, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. These new venues — particularly a large casino at Arundel Mills in Maryland projected to open in June 2012 — are expected to have a significant adverse effect on our visitation numbers, our employee headcount, our revenues and our profitability. Management has estimated that approximately 42% of our total gaming win comes from Maryland patrons and approximately 70% of our Capital Club® member gaming win comes from out of state patrons. All Of Our Facilities Are In One Location Our facilities are located adjacent to one another at a single location in Dover, Delaware. Any prolonged disruption of operations at these facilities due to damage or destruction, inclement weather, natural disaster, work stoppages or other reasons could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain property and business interruption insurance to protect against certain types of disruption, but there can be no assurance that the proceeds of such insurance would be adequate to repair or rebuild our facilities or to otherwise compensate us for lost profits. The Revocation, Suspension Or Modification Of Our Gaming Licenses Would Adversely Affect Our Gaming Business Licensing, administration and control of gaming operations in Delaware is under the Delaware State Lottery Office and Delaware’s Department of Safety and Homeland Security, Division of Gaming Enforcement. Our gaming license must be renewed on an annual basis. To keep our gaming license, we must remain licensed for harness horse racing by the Delaware Harness Racing Commission and conduct at least 80 live race days each racing season, subject to the availability of harness race horses. The Commission has broad discretion to reject any application for a license or suspend or revoke a license once it is issued. The Director of the Delaware State Lottery Office (the “Lottery Director”) has broad discretion to revoke, suspend or modify the terms of our license. Any modification or termination of existing licensing regulations or any revocation, suspension or modification of our licenses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and overall profitability. Our Gaming Activities Are Subject To Extensive Government Regulation And Any Additional Government Regulation Or Taxation Of Gaming Activities Could Substantially Reduce Our Revenue Or Profit Slot machine gaming, sports betting, table games, harness horse racing and pari-mutuel wagering are subject to extensive government regulation. Delaware law regulates the win we are entitled to retain and the percentage of commission we are entitled to receive from our gaming revenues, which comprises a significant portion of our overall revenues. The State granted us a license to conduct our gaming operations and a license to conduct harness 11 horse races and pari-mutuel wagering. The laws under which these licenses are granted could be modified or repealed at any time and we could be required to terminate our gaming operations. If we are required to terminate our gaming operations or if the amount of the commission we receive from the State for conducting our gaming operations is decreased, our business operations and overall profitability would be significantly impaired. We believe that the prospect of significant additional tax revenue is one of the primary reasons why jurisdictions have legalized gaming. As a result, gaming operators are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes. These taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations and the State’s share of our gaming win has been increased several times over the past few years. As some of these fees are fixed license fees payable without regard to the level of business we conduct, they may have a material adverse effect on our future financial results if we have a decline in revenues. In addition, any material increase in taxes or fees, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, may have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Laws and regulations governing the use and development of real estate may delay or complicate any improvements we choose to make and/or increase the costs of any improvements or our costs of operating. If it is determined that damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment has been caused or exacerbated by the operation or conduct of our business or by pollutants, substances, contaminants or wastes used, generated or disposed of by us, or if pollutants, substances, contaminants or wastes are found on our property, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation and/or remediation of such contamination or any related damage. Laws and regulations are always subject to change, can be interpreted differently in the future, and new laws and regulations may be enacted which could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of our gaming operations. Furthermore, noncompliance with one or more of these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of substantial penalties against us or adversely affect our gaming license. We Have a Significant Amount of Indebtedness As of December 31, 2011, we had total outstanding long-term debt of $69,000,000 under our credit facility. This indebtedness and any future increases in our outstanding borrowings or decreases in our operating profits could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; · increase our costs or create difficulties in refinancing or replacing our outstanding obligations; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · subject us to the risks that interest rates and our interest expense will increase; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. In addition, our credit facility contains financial ratios that we are required to meet and other restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our ability to borrow additional funds, make acquisitions, create liens on our properties and make investments. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet them. If there were an event of default under our credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. 12 If the new casino at Arundel Mills in Maryland projected to open in June 2012 has a larger adverse impact on our operations than anticipated, our ability to comply with our debt covenants over the next twelve months could be impacted. We Do Not Own Or Lease Our Slot Machines And Related Technology We do not own or lease the slot machines or computer systems used by the State in connection with our video lottery gaming operations. The Lottery Director enters into contracts directly with the providers of the slot machines and computer systems and we are not a party to those negotiations. At our expense, the State purchases or leases all equipment and the Lottery Director licenses all technology providers. Our operations could be disrupted if a licensed technology provider violates its agreement with the State or ceases to be licensed for any reason. Such an event would be outside of our control and could adversely affect our gaming revenues. Due to Our Concentrated Stock Ownership, Stockholders May Have No Effective Voice In Our Management We have elected to be treated as a “controlled corporation” as defined by New York Stock Exchange Rule 303A. We are a controlled corporation because a single person, Henry B. Tippie, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, controls in excess of fifty percent of our voting power. This means that he has the ability to determine the outcome of the election of directors at our annual meetings and to determine the outcome of many significant corporate transactions, many of which only require the approval of a majority of our voting power. Such a concentration of voting power could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us at a premium. In addition, as a controlled corporation, we are not required to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange rules. Our Success Depends on the Availability and Performance of Key Personnel Our continued success depends upon the availability and performance of our senior management team which possesses unique and extensive industry knowledge and experience. Our inability to retain and attract key employees in the future could have a negative effect on our operations and business plans. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of future developments, events or conditions. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ significantly from those forecast in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, stockholders should not overly rely or attach undue weight to our forward-looking statements as an indication of our actual future results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received any written comments that were issued within 180 days before December 31, 2011, the end of the fiscal year covered by this report, from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 