Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to a number of risks, including those enumerated below. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following important risks and uncertainties in connection with any investment in our common stock. If the damages threatened by any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations, and cash flows would likely suffer significantly. In any of those cases, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you may lose all of part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business If we do not successfully execute our strategy of growth through coal mine acquisitions, our future performance, particularly our profit margins, could be adversely affected. We have adopted a business strategy to enter into the coal mining business, including acquisitions of coal mines. If we are unable to obtain or manage these external growth opportunities successfully, we will not be able to grow our business in the way that we currently expect. In order to pursue such opportunities, we may require significant additional financing, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in our external growth strategy, we may not be able to grow our business significantly and we may incur asset impairment charges as a result of acquisitions that are not successful. Because we are entering into a new business line, coal mining, through acquisitions of various coal mine assets, we are subject to the risks faced by a new business and risks relating to coal mine operations. Under our new business strategy as discussed above, we are entering into the coal mining business through acquisitions of various coal mine assets, which is a new business to us. As of December 31, 2010, our business had been limited to the coal washing business. The operation of the coal mines will be subject to significant additional risks which are not necessarily related to our coal washing business. In addition to the normal risks associated with our business, there are additional risks that relate to the new coal mining business. These risks include, but are not limited to: · We lack experience in operating coal mines. Although individuals on our board and our management team have extensive experience in operating coal mines and we plan to hire additional outside management company and personnel to operate the coal mines, as a company, we have never operated coal mines, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in operating coal mines. · We may not be able to timely obtain government permits or approvals for coal mining business. We are required to obtain numerous governmental permits or approvals for our coal mining business, including the approval of pre-construction designs, issuance of upgrade construction permits, approval of post-construction practices, issuance of operating licenses, and issuance and renewal of mining rights. Currently, Shanxi Coal has been given transitional mining permits, which will expire in November-December 2011. The Shanxi government will not issue the final operating licenses and renew the mining permits until the reconstruction works are completed. This is the policy of Shanxi government’s consolidation program and applies to all consolidation projects in the province. The permit application procedures are complex and the timing of permit issuance depends on many factors, practically the quality and speed of our construction works and government’s review time. Accordingly, permits required may not be obtained or renewed in a timely manner, which will limit our ability to conduct our mining operations. 15 · We require significant additional funds to enable us to develop and expand the coal mine business. The construction of coal mines and related facilities is very capital intensive, and we will require significant additional funds for this purpose. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any financing which we may require, or obtain financing on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. · Our coal mining business faces many uncertainties, which may change by the time the construction of our coal mines and related facilities is completed. The uncertainties our coal mine operations face include a change in the coal price and price policy and limitations that are imposed or may be imposed by the Chinese government from time to time, which may have an adverse impact on our revenues and reduce our margins. We depend on third parties for the construction of our coal mines and related facilities, and we may also face delays in the construction as a result of breach of contract by the construction contractors, protests or other obstructive or delaying activities by displaced persons and others who may oppose such constructions. · The coal mining business is highly regulated. The exploration, transportation and distribution of coal are subject to PRC regulations, including the price at which we sell coal. The price control limits our potential profit from the sale of coal. Other regulations may result in increased costs in order to comply with these regulations. · Because of the nature of the coal mine business, we could be exposed to liability from mining accidents or other safety issues. Any explosions or other safety accidents from our coal mines, once they become operational, could cause severe property damage, personal injury as well as loss of life, which may not be covered by insurance. Any such loss could result in a material adverse impact on our business and operating results or even cause termination of coal mine operations and could subject us to regulatory actions. · We entered into an Investment Cooperation Agreement and Supplementary Investment Cooperation Agreement to acquire and co-develop certain coal mines, the success of which cooperation relationship is uncertain. Because of the large capital investment required to acquire and co-develop coal mines, we entered into an Investment Cooperation Agreement and Supplementary Agreement with Mr. Ming Zhao, our principal stockholder and Chairman of our Board, and Mr. Jianping Gao, under which Shanxi Coal, Mr. Zhao and Mr. Gao each will contribute 40%, 30% and 30% of the total investment needed for the seven coal mines under the Pinglu project, and will share economic benefits and bear losses that are proportionate to their respective equity contribution. This is the first time we have entered into such an investment cooperation agreement. If the cooperation is not successful, our coal mining business will be materially impacted. Moreover, if we, as the project manager, act in a way that is considered grossly negligent or in material violation of the agreement, we could be subject to liabilities. Finally, under the agreement, to the extent permitted by the Chinese law, at least 80% of the audited annual net profits of the project companies established after the coal mine acquisition will be distributed to the parties at a ratio that is proportionate to their respective investment. Therefore, the project companies may not have sufficient cash generated from operations for reinvestment or capacity expansion in the future and may need outside financing for its future growth. In light of these risks and uncertainties, we may not be able to set up the newly acquired coal mines for operation on time, integrate them successfully or take full advantage of them. There can be no assurance that we will recover our investment in this new business, that we will realize a profit from this new business or that diverting our management’s attention to this new business will not have a material adverse effect on our existing coal washing businesses, any of which results may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 16 The demand for our product is cyclical and is affected by industrial economic conditions. Downturns in the economy may reduce demand for our product and our revenues could decline. Because we do not export our product out of China, our business and operating results related to our cleaned coking coal business are primarily dependent upon China’s domestic demand for cleaned coking coal, and our business and operating results related to our newly acquired coal mine business will be primarily dependent upon China’s domestic demand for raw coal to be produced from our coal mines once those mines are up and in operation. However, because the domestic demand for coal in China is impacted by the international demand for coal, we are also susceptible to fluctuations in the international markets. The domestic and international coal markets are cyclical and exhibit fluctuation in supply and demand from year to year and are subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the economic conditions in China, the global economic conditions and fluctuations in industries with high demand for coal, such as the steel and power industries. A significant decline in demand or excess supply for coal may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, nearly all of our sales are concentrated in the central and northern area of China. Accordingly, we are susceptible to fluctuations in business caused by adverse economic conditions in those regions. Difficult economic conditions in other geographic areas into which we may expand may also adversely affect our business, operations and finances. Our principal stockholders have significant control over the Company and may have conflicts of interest with the Company. Mr. Ming Zhao and Mr. Yao Zhao may have, or may develop in the future, conflicts of interest with us. First, the loan used to finance our facility expansions is held by Resources Group, a company which is owned by the Zhaos. It could be in their economic interest to cause us to default on the payment of the loan with Resources Group since Resources Group could acquire the assets which are subject to the lien as a result of enforcement of the lien after a default. In addition, Putai owes Mr. Ming Zhao a principal amount of RMB240 million (US$36.4 million) plus quarterly interest pursuant to a loan agreement dated May 7, 2010, which loan proceeds were used to increase Shanxi Coal’s registered capital to the level required by the Shanxi government to be a coal mine consolidator. It could be in Mr. Ming Zhao’s economic interest to cause us to default on the loan as Mr. Ming Zhao would be entitled to an additional 5% penalty interest on top of the 6% regular interest under the loan. With the combined ownership of us by Mr. Ming Zhao and his brother Mr. Yao Zhao, and the position of Mr. Ming Zhao as our Chairman of the Board, he can to a large extent control the actions which we take. Second, Mr. Ming Zhao is a party to the Investment Cooperation Agreement and Supplementary Investment Cooperation Agreement we entered into on August 1, 2010 and January 10, 2011, respectively, in which Mr. Ming Zhao will contribute 30% of the equity investment needed for acquiring and developing seven mines under the Pinglu Project, and will be entitled to economic benefits and will bear losses that are proportionate to his equity contribution. If Mr. Ming Zhao does not make the required contribution or otherwise does not perform according to the agreement, our coal mining project could be materially impacted, and our recourse against Mr. Ming Zhao may be limited given Mr. Ming Zhao’s control over our Company. We are primarily a holding company and depend on distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. Our Company has an offshore holding structure commonly used by foreign investors with operations in China. We are a corporation which owns BVI, and BVI owns Putai. Our operations are conducted exclusively through Shanxi Coal, in which we own 90% of the equity interest. The operations of Shanxi Coal are our sole source of revenues. We have no operations independent of those of Putai and its subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon the performance of Putai and its subsidiaries and will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting such subsidiaries as well as general economic and financial conditions. As substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, we are dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Because virtually all of our assets are held by our operating subsidiaries, the claims of our shareholders will be structurally subordinate to all existing and future liabilities and obligations, and trade payables of such subsidiaries. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of the Company, our assets and those of our subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the claims of our shareholders only after all of Putai and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. 17 Our future operating results have been and may continue to be affected by fluctuations in raw material prices. We may not be able to pass on cost increases to customers. Our operating profits have been and may continue to be negatively affected by fluctuations in the price of raw coking coal. We are subject to short-term coal price volatility and have purchased and may continue to have to purchase raw coking coal at higher prices. In the past, we were not always able to pass the cost increase of raw coal on to customers and may not be able to do so in the future either. This has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. Our sales agreements with customers generally contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price of the cleaned coking coal upward or downward at specified times. For example, we may adjust these contract prices because of increases or decreases in the price of raw coal from our mining suppliers, general inflation or deflation, or changes in the cost of producing raw or cleaned coking coal caused by such things as changes in taxes, fees, royalties or the laws regulating the mining, production, sale or use of coal. However, if we fail to agree on a price with our customer under these provisions, many agreements allow customers to terminate the contract or refuse to buy all of the quantities contracted for. Market prices for raw coking coal fluctuate in most regions in China. Raw coal prices increased from an average of RMB 475 per MT in 2008 to RMB 483 per MT in 2009 to RMB 567 per MT in 2010. We were not able to fully pass these cost increases on to our customers and may not be able to do so with any future increases in the cost of raw materials. Top quality raw coking coal is critical to our maintaining operating efficiencies and delivering cleaned coal to our customers which meets their specifications. Since top quality raw coking coal is more limited in supply, its price tends to be more volatile. A general rise in coking coal prices also may adversely affect the price of, and demand for, coke and products made with coke such as pig iron, steel and concrete. This may in turn lead to a fall in demand for our products. If any of Shanxi Coal’s coal sales agreements terminates or expires, our revenues and operating profits could suffer. A substantial portion of our sales are made under coal sales agreements, which are important to the stability and profitability of our coal washing operations. It is common business practice in China that coal purchase and sale agreements are signed for one year terms, with annual renewals. This practice makes it difficult for us to forecast long-term purchase and sale quantities and can negatively affect our ability to manage inventory. These agreements may expire or be terminated. Cleaned coal sales agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Moreover, even if sales agreements are in force, buyers are generally not obligated to take the quantities specified in the contracts. Increases in transportation costs could make our operations less competitive and result in the loss of customers. Coal producers and processors depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to deliver coal to markets. While our customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of cleaned coking coal from our facilities to the point of use, any disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers and thus could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, the high volume of raw coal shipped from all Shanxi Province mines could create temporary congestion on the rail systems servicing that region. If transportation for our cleaned coking coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell cleaned coking coal could suffer. Transportation costs can represent a significant portion of the total cost of cleaned coal. Since our customers typically pay that cost, it is a critical factor in a distant customer’s purchasing decision. If transportation costs from our facilities to the customer’s are not competitive, the customer may elect to purchase from another company. Moreover, certain coal sales agreements permit the customer to terminate the contract if the cost of transportation increases by specified amounts in any given 12-month period. 18 We may not be able to meet quality specifications required by our customers and as a result could incur economic penalties or cancelled agreements which would reduce our sales and profitability. Most of our coal sales agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coking coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as BTUs, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. If we are not able to meet these specifications, because, for example, we are not able to source coal of the proper quality, we may incur economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Our business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales, earnings and profitability. The coal crushing, washing and processing business is highly competitive in China and we face substantial competition in connection with the marketing and sale of our products. Most of our competitors are well established, have greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources, have been in business for longer periods of time than we have, and have products that have gained wide customer acceptance in the marketplace. The greater financial resources of our competitors will permit them to implement extensive marketing and promotional programs. We could fail to expand our market share, and could fail to maintain our current share. Increased competition could also result in overcapacity in the Chinese coal industry in general. The coal industry in China has experienced overcapacity in the past. During the mid-1970s and early 1980s, a growing coal market and increased demand for coal in China attracted new investors to the coal industry, spurred the development of new mines and resulted in added production capacity throughout the industry, all of which led to increased competition and lower processed coal prices. Similarly, an increase in future processed coal prices could encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal processors. Any overcapacity could reduce processed coal prices in the future and our profitability would be impaired. We depend on key persons and the loss of any key person could adversely affect our operations. We and our operating company, Shanxi Coal are highly dependent on the marketing ability and credit of Mr. Ming Zhao, our Chairman, and the loss of his service and support would have a material and adverse impact on our operations. We are also dependent upon our relationship with Mr. Ming Zhao and his brother Mr. Yao Zhao and their other controlled businesses. None of our companies has applied for key-man life insurance on the lives of our executives. If we were to lose the services of Mr. Ming Zhao, our ability to operate would be impaired. Significant assets are subject to a lien held by a company controlled by the Zhaos and their family. If we default on the payment of the obligations secured by the lien we could lose title to assets which are necessary for the operation of our business. We financed the acquisition of the Shanxi Liulin Jucai Plant and the Zhongyang Plant through Resources Group, an entity owned 80% by Mr. Ming Zhao, 10% by Mr. Yao Zhao, 5% by Xue Ning, Ming Zhao’s wife, and 5% by Xue Yue, a second-generation cousin of Xue Ning, for an aggregate cost of $13 million paid through a 6% secured facilities loan amortized over 10 years. The note is secured by the assets purchased. If we default on the loan, the security could be enforced and title to the assets could be lost, having a significant negative impact on our ability to produce our products. We do not have any registered patents or other intellectual property and we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of our processes. We have no patents covering our cleaning processes and we rely on the confidentiality of our cleaning processes in producing a competitive product. The confidentiality of our know-how may not be maintained and we may lose any meaningful competitive advantage which might arise through our proprietary processes. 19 The current credit and financial market conditions have a negative impact on global business environment and may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. The financial markets are currently experiencing a downturn around the world. Many of our customers and suppliers may encounter much uncertainty and risks due to the weakened business environment and credit availability. As a result, these customers and suppliers may be unable to satisfy their contract obligations, may delay payment, or may not repay our credit advance to them, which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. Terrorist attacks or military conflict could result in disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving China or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers may materially adversely affect our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of processed coal to our customers, decreased sales of coal and extensions of time for payment of accounts receivable from customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of terrorist attacks than other targets. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. Any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on Shanxi Coal’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Our Chinese operations pose certain risks because of the evolving state of the Chinese economy, political, and legislative and regulatory systems. Changes in the interpretations of existing laws and the enactment of new laws may negatively impact our business and results of operation. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including its levels of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Doing business in China involves various risks including internal and international political risks, evolving national economic policies as well as financial accounting standards, expropriation and the potential for a reversal in economic conditions. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming its economic system. These policies and measures may from time to time be modified or revised. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. Furthermore, while the Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources, some of these measures may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Also, since early 2004, the Chinese government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth including certain levels of price controls on raw coking coal. Such controls could cause our margins to be decreased. In addition, such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in economic policies of the Chinese government or in the laws and regulations, if any, could have a material and adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, and could adversely affect our business operations. 20 There are substantial uncertainties regarding the application of Chinese laws, especially with respect to existing and future foreign investments in China. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies, and the stated positions of the Chinese authorities may change and possible new laws, regulations or policies will impact our business and operations. For example, due to the uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of the transfer pricing rules relating to related party transactions in China, it is possible that tax authorities in China may challenge the transfer prices that we have used for related party transactions among our entities in China in the future. Because of the evolving nature of the law, it will be difficult for us to manage and plan for changes that may arise. Our business is and will continue to be subject central, provincial, local and municipal regulation and licensing in China. Compliance with such regulations and licensing can be expected to be a time-consuming, expensive process. Compliance with foreign country laws and regulations affecting foreign investment, business operations, currency exchange, repatriation of profits, and taxation, will increase the risk of investing in our stock. We may have to incur unanticipated costs because of the unpredictability of the Chinese legal system. The Chinese legal system has many uncertainties. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently-enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the Chinese legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Our industry is heavily regulated and we may not be able to remain in compliance with all such regulations and we may be required to incur substantial costs in complying with such regulation. We are subject to extensive regulation by China’s Mining Ministry, and by other provincial, county and local authorities in jurisdictions in which our products are processed or sold, regarding the processing, storage, and distribution of our product. Our processing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by national, province, county and local authorities. We may not be able to comply with current laws and regulations, or any future laws and regulations. To the extent that new regulations are adopted, we will be required to adjust our activities in order to comply with such regulations. We may be required to incur substantial costs in order to comply. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operations and finances. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may also have a negative impact on our sales. Certain of our contracts with customers permit the customers to terminate the contract in the event of changes in regulations affecting the industry that increase the price of coal beyond specified limits. The government regulation of our coal processing operations imposes additional costs on us, and future regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to crush, clean and process coking coal. China’s central, provincial and local authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. We are required to prepare and present to China’s central, provincial and local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed processing of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement, expansion or continuation of our coal processing operations. The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders may be adopted that may materially and adversely affect our operations, our cost structure and/or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us and our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Certain sales agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 It will be difficult for any shareholder of our Company to commence a legal action against our executives. Other than the stock of our subsidiaries, we have minimal assets in the United States. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our control of Shanxi Coal. Shanxi Coal and substantially all of Shanxi Coal’s assets are located in Shanxi Province, China. Other than our stock in our direct subsidiary, Puda Investments Holding Limited, an International Business Company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, we have very minimal assets in the United States. In addition, all of our executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside of China upon our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. Restrictions on Chinese currency may limit our ability to obtain operating capital and could restrict our ability to move funds out of China and to pay dividends. The Chinese currency, “Renminbi”, or “RMB”, is not a freely convertible currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to support Shanxi Coal’s business operations in the future and could impair the ability of Shanxi Coal to pay dividends or other distributions to Puda. We rely on the Chinese government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. Shanxi Coal receives all of its revenues in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. Under our current structure, our income is derived from payments from Shanxi Coal through Putai and BVI. In China, the government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies which are required for “current account” transactions can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, the proper procedural requirements prescribed by Chinese law must be met. Current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. At the same time, Chinese companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the Chinese government. This type of heavy regulation by the Chinese government of foreign currency exchange restricts certain of our business operations and a change in any of these government policies, or any other, could further negatively impact our operations. In order to pay dividends, a conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollar is required. Under current Chinese law, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency generally requires government consent. Government authorities may impose restrictions that could have a negative impact in the future on the conversion process and upon the ability of Shanxi Coal to meet its cash needs, and to pay dividends to Puda. However, Putai is presently classified as a wholly-owned foreign enterprise, or WFOE, in China that has verifiable foreign investment in China, funding having been made through an official Chinese banking channel. Because Putai qualifies for treatment as a WFOE, it can convert Renminbi, declare dividends and its funds can be repatriated to Puda in the United States under current laws and regulations in China, subject to limitations and restrictions imposed by Chinese laws, such as the SAFE notices issued by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. However, the Chinese laws governing foreign currency exchange are evolving, and changes in such laws or their interpretation or application may adversely affect the ability to convert Renminbi, declare dividends and repatriate funds to the United States. Because our cash flow is dependent on dividend distributions from our subsidiaries in China, we may be restricted from distributing dividends to stockholders if we do not receive distributions of dividends from our subsidiaries. 22 We are subject to currency fluctuations from our Chinese operations and fluctuations in the exchange rate may negatively affect our expenses and results of operations, as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Effective July 21, 2005, The People’s Bank of China announced that the Renminbi exchange rate regime is reformed by moving from a fixed rate of exchange based upon the U.S. dollar to a managed floating exchange rate regime based upon market supply and demand of a basket of currencies. As of December 31, 2010, the last trading day in 2010, Renminbi appreciated to approximately 6.60 Renminbi per U.S. dollar. It is expected that the revaluation of the Renminbi and the exchange rate of the Renminbi may continue to change in the future. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Chinese RMB and the United States dollar could adversely affect our operating results. Results of Shanxi Coal’s operations are translated at average exchange rates into United States dollar for purposes of reporting results. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations as well as the value of our assets and liabilities. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. We do not use hedging techniques to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock prices. Because our operations are located in China, information about our operations are not readily available from independent third-party sources. Because our sole operating company, Shanxi Coal, is based in China, shareholders may have greater difficulty in obtaining information about Shanxi Coal on a timely basis than would shareholders of an entirely U.S.-based company. Shanxi Coal’s operations will continue to be conducted in China and shareholders may have difficulty in obtaining information about Shanxi Coal from sources other than Shanxi Coal itself. Information available from newspapers, trade journals, or local, regional or national regulatory agencies such as issuance of construction permits and contract awards for development projects will not be readily available to shareholders. Shareholders will be dependent upon Shanxi Coal’s management for reports of Shanxi Coal’s progress, development, activities and expenditure of proceeds. Climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Climate change could have a potential economic impact on us and climate change mitigation programs and regulations could increase our costs. Energy costs could be higher as a result of climate change regulations. Our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. In addition, climate change may increase the frequency or intensity of natural disasters. As such, we cannot assure you that climate change will not adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Risks Associated with Our Common Stock Our stock price has been extremely volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly, which may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant daily fluctuations. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the closing sale prices of our ordinary shares on the NYSE Amex ranged from $4.90 to $16.47 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of material customer agreements or acquisition, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, new government restrictions or regulations and news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for China-related companies recently have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 23 Our stock prices could decrease if a substantial number of shares are sold under Rule 144. A substantial number of Puda’s outstanding shares of common stock are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. As restricted shares, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemption from registration under the Act and as required under applicable state securities laws. Rule 144 provides in essence that a person who has held restricted securities for a period of at least one year may, under certain conditions, sell every three months, in brokerage transactions, a number of shares that does not exceed 1.0% of a our outstanding common stock. There is no limit on the amount of restricted securities that may be sold by a non-affiliate after the restricted securities have been held by the owner for a period of two years or more. The SEC amended Rule 144 and, effective February 15, 2008, non-affiliates may sell restricted securities without volume limitations or other requirements after having held the securities for six months. If a substantial number of shares of our stock are sold under the amended Rule 144 or other exemption, it could cause the price our stock to go down. Our principal stockholders have the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring stockholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our Company. As of the date of this report, Mr. Ming Zhao and Mr. Yao Zhao own in total approximately 31.64% of the Company’s outstanding shares and, acting together, will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and all actions requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, corporate law provides that certain actions may be taken by consent action of stockholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares. In the event that the requisite approval of stockholders is obtained by consent action, without any meeting of stockholders, dissenting or non-participating stockholders generally would be bound by such vote. Through their concentration of voting power, the Zhao brothers could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our Company or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our other stockholders. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock. In addition, the interest of the Zhao brothers may not always coincide with the interest of the Company’s other stockholders. In deciding how to vote on such matters, the Zhao brothers may be influenced by interests that conflict with yours. You should not buy our common stock unless you are willing to entrust all aspects of operational control to Puda’s current management team. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. In 2005, Shanxi Coal, our 90% subsidiary, declared dividends of $1,715,470, payable to Mr. Ming Zhao (80%) and Mr. Yao Zhao (20%), of which $543,470 was paid in 2005 and $1,172,000 was paid on October 17, 2008. In September 2008, Shanxi Coal declared an RMB 8 million ($1,170,754) dividend to its shareholders, which has not been paid as of the date of this report. No dividend was declared in 2009 or 2010. We do not intend to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not plan on making any cash contributions in the manner of a dividend or otherwise. Our board of directors presently intends to follow a policy of retaining earnings, if any. See “Dividend” on page 27. The Company has the right to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without the consent of shareholders. This would have the effect of diluting your ownership in the Company and could decrease the value of your stock. There are additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock that may be later issued by our board of directors for any purpose without the consent or vote of the stockholders that would dilute a stockholder’s percentage ownership of the Company. In addition, our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock, the rights, preferences, designations and limitations of which may be set by the board of directors. While no preferred stock is currently outstanding or subject to be issued, the articles of incorporation have authorized issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in the discretion of the board of directors. Such preferred stock may be issued upon filing of amended Articles of Incorporation and the payment of required fees; no further shareholder action is required. If issued, the rights, preferences, designations and limitations of such preferred stock would be set by the board of directors and could operate to the disadvantage of the outstanding common stock. Such terms could include, among others, preferences as to dividends and distributions on liquidation. 24 We may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and sustain a loss of public confidence if we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and/or we have material internal control weaknesses which may result in material financial reporting errors. Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report filed for a fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2007 and have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to such evaluation for fiscal years ending on or after June 15, 2010. Compliance with these requirements can be expensive and time consuming. While we believe that we met and will continue to be able to meet the applicable deadlines, no assurance can be given that we will meet the required deadlines in future years. If we fail to timely complete this evaluation, or if our auditors cannot timely attest to our evaluation when we are required to have such attestation, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. 