ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The recent earthquake and tsunami, and other collateral events, in Japan may adversely affect the demand for our products and services in the Japanese market, which may cause a decline in revenues and negatively affect our operating results. We have two direct sales offices in Japan and generate revenue from the sale of systems, upgrades, Titan refills, fillers, cosmeceuticals and services. Revenue sourced from the Japanese market was approximately $13.6 million in 2010, $9.6 million in 2009 and $10.9 million in 2008. In 2010, our Japanese sourced revenue represented 26% of our world wide revenue and we experienced growth from all of our product categories, including Fillers and Cosmeceuticals due to the commencement of the distribution of cosmeceutical products in 2010. The recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and other collateral events, including, among others, the catastrophic loss of lives, businesses, infrastructure, and delays in transportation, may have a direct negative impact on us or an indirect impact on us by affecting our employees, customers, or the overall economy in Japan and may reduce the demand for our products and services. As a result, these events could cause a decline in our revenue in Japan and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In 2010, our U.S. revenue decreased by approximately 8%, compared to the same period in 2009. Our U.S. revenue is significantly below the pre-2009 level due in part to customers purchasing fewer applications and declining average selling prices (or ASPs). In addition, we experienced a temporary decline in our Titan refill revenue in 2010, compared to 2009, due to a voluntary recall of certain Titan XL hand pieces. All customers that had a Titan XL hand pieces subject to the recall were provided with fully refilled hand pieces, which delayed their purchase of a refill. If our U.S. revenue does not improve, it could have a material adverse effect on our total revenue, profitability, employee retention and stock price. In 2010, our U.S. revenue decreased by approximately 8%, compared to 2009. Our U.S. revenue is significantly below the pre-2009 level due to several factors, some of which are: · Our Product and Upgrade ASPs in 2010 were lower than the pre-2010 levels as a result of customers purchasing fewer applications for systems and lower pricing resulting from competitive discounting pressures. · Historically, we have introduced a new product every year since 2000, which typically resulted in increased revenue. However, in 2009 and until August 2010, we did not have a new product. In 2010 we launched GenesisPlus and in February 2011, we introduced our Excel V laser system ─ a unique vascular work station designed specifically for the core-market of Dermatologists and Plastic Surgeons. However, even though we have introduced these new products, there can be no assurance that they will translate into increased revenue in the U.S. in 2011. · We experienced a temporary decline in our Titan refill revenue in 2010, compared to 2009, due to a voluntary recall of certain Titan XL hand pieces. All customers that had a Titan XL hand piece subject to the recall were provided with fully refilled hand pieces, which delayed their purchase of a refill. If our U.S. revenue does not improve, it could have a material adverse effect on our total revenue, profitability, employee retention and stock price. We rely heavily on our sales professionals to market and sell our products worldwide. If we are unable to hire, effectively train, manage, improve the productivity of, and retain the sales professionals, our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability. Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, train, manage and improve the productivity levels of our sales professionals worldwide. Because of our focus on the non-core market in the past, several of our sales professionals do not have established relationships with core market physicians (Dermatologists and Plastic Surgeons) or where those relationships exist, they are not very strong. In addition, we have lost some of our sales professionals in response to the decline in their earnings resulting from the decreases in their commissions. 13 We have selectively hired, and continue to do so, new sales professionals in key territories to fill vacant positions. For example, in December 2010, Michael Poole joined us as Vice President of North American Sales, which allowed our previous Vice President of North American Sales to return to Japan in an expanded role to lead our Pacific Rim operations. We have been training our existing, and recently recruited, sales professionals to better understand our product technology and how it can be positioned against our competitors’ products. These initiatives are intended to improve our revenue and profitability. Although Mr. Poole has over 17 years of a broad range of sales experience and was employed by us from 2004 to 2008, Mr. Poole has limited prior experience in managing a large sales force. Measures we implement in an effort to retain, train and manage our sales professionals, strengthen their relationships with core market physicians, and improve their productivity may not be successful and may instead contribute to instability in our operations, additional departures from our sales organization, or further reduce our revenue and harm to our business. If our revenue does not improve from the 2010 level, or if our cost of revenue and/ or operating expenses increase, our gross margins and operating margins may be adversely impacted, our loss from operations will increase, and our cash used in operating activities will increase, which could reduce our assets and have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our gross margin in 2010 was 57%, compared with 59% in 2009 and 61% in 2008. Our gross margin is impacted by the revenue that we generate and the costs incurred to generate the revenue. Our future revenue may be adversely affected by a number of factors including, the competitive market environment in which we operate, which may result in a decrease in the number of units sold, a decrease in the number of applications per system purchased by customers, a decrease in the average selling prices achieved for our product sales, or a shift in our product mix. Our cost of revenue may also be adversely impacted by various factors such as obsolescence of our inventory, increased expenses associated with repairing defective products covered by our warranty program, and utilization of our relatively fixed manufacturing costs. In response to reduced revenue, in 2009 we reduced our expense levels in various departments including sales, marketing, customer relations, manufacturing, and service departments. We implemented three reduction-in-force (or RIF) programs in 2009, specifically targeting positions that were directly impacted by the recession. Even though we implemented the restructurings, we had a significant loss from operations and used significant cash in our operations in 2010. If our revenue does not improve from the 2010 level, or if our cost of revenue increases, or if we are not able to reduce expenses in the event of a decline in revenue, we may continue to generate losses from operations and use cash, which could reduce our assets and have a material adverse effect on our operations and stock price. Demand for our products in any of our markets could be weakened by several factors, including: · Our ability to develop and market our products to the core market specialties of dermatologists and plastic surgeons; · Poor financial performance of market segments that try introducing aesthetic procedures to their businesses; · The inability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors; · Reduced patient demand for elective aesthetic procedures; · Failure to build and maintain relationships with opinion leaders within the various market segments; · An increase in malpractice lawsuits that result in higher insurance costs; and · The lack of credit financing for some of our potential customers. If we do not achieve anticipated demand for our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our total revenue, profitability, employee retention and stock price. The aesthetic equipment market is characterized by rapid innovation. To compete effectively, we must develop and/or acquire new products, market them successfully, and identify new markets for our technology. We have created products to apply our technology to hair removal, treatment of veins and skin rejuvenation, including the treating of diffuse redness, skin laxity, fine lines, wrinkles, skin texture, pore size and pigmented lesions. Currently, these applications represent the majority of offered laser and light-based aesthetic procedures. We have recently started distributing topical skin creams and dermal fillers in the Japanese market. To grow in the future, we must develop and acquire new and innovative aesthetic products and applications, identify new markets, and successfully launch the newly acquired or developed product offerings. 14 To successfully expand our product offerings, we must, among other things: · Develop and acquire new products that either add to or significantly improve our current product offerings; · Convince our existing and prospective customers that our product offerings would be an attractive revenue-generating addition to their practice; · Sell our product offerings to a broad customer base; · Identify new markets and alternative applications for our technology; · Protect our existing and future products with defensible intellectual property; and · Satisfy and maintain all regulatory requirements for commercialization. Except for 2009, we have introduced a new product every year since 2000. In February 2011, we announced the release of our Excel V laser system, a unique vascular work station designed specifically for the core-market of Dermatologists and Plastic Surgeons. In 2010, we launched GenesisPlus, a laser specifically created for the aesthetic treatment of toes and feet. Historically, product introductions have been a significant component of our financial performance. To be successful in the aesthetics industry, we need to continue to innovate. Our business strategy has therefore been based, in part, on our expectation that we will continue to increase our product offerings. We need to continue to devote substantial research and development resources to make new product introductions, which can be costly and time consuming to our organization. In January 2011, we announced the appointment of Len DeBenedictis as Chief Technology Officer to lead our research and product development efforts. Our current Vice President of Research and Development will report to Mr. DeBenedictis. Although Mr. DeBenedictis has over 20 years of laser and light-based industry experience and an outstanding background to lead our research and product development efforts, there is no guarantee that we will be able to continue our trend of regular new product introductions or that such management change will result in an improved research and development organization. Also, we may need additional research and development resources to make new product introductions, which may be more costly and time consuming to our organization. We also believe that, to increase revenue from sales of new products and related upgrades, we need to continue to develop our clinical support, further expand and nurture relationships with industry thought leaders and increase market awareness of the benefits of our new products. However, even with a significant investment in research and development, we may be unable to continue to develop, acquire or effectively launch and market new products and technologies regularly, or at all. If we fail to successfully commercialize new products, our business may be harmed. While we attempt to protect our products through patents and other intellectual property, there are few barriers to entry that would prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products that compete directly with ours. For example, while our CoolGlide product was the first long-pulse Nd:YAG, or long wavelength, laser system cleared by the FDA for permanent hair reduction on all skin types, competitors have subsequently introduced systems that utilize Nd:YAG lasers, and received FDA clearances to market these products as treating all skin types. We expect that any competitive advantage we may enjoy from other current and future innovations, such as combining multiple hand pieces in a single system to perform a variety of applications, may diminish over time as companies successfully respond to our, or create their own, innovations. Consequently, we believe that we will have to continuously innovate and improve our products and technology to compete successfully. If we are unable to innovate successfully, our products could become obsolete and our revenue could decline as our customers and prospects purchase our competitors’ products. Our ability to effectively compete and generate additional revenue from new and existing products depend upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products, and to develop and effectively market new and existing products. Our success is dependent on many factors, including the following: · Speed of new and innovative product development; · Effective strategy and execution of new product launches; · Identify and develop clinical support for new indications of our existing products; · Product performance; · Product pricing; · Quality of customer support; · Development of successful distribution channels, both domestically and internationally; and · Intellectual property protection. To compete effectively, we have to demonstrate that our new and existing products are attractive alternatives to other devices and treatments, by differentiating our products on the basis of such factors as innovation, performance, brand name, service, and price. This is difficult to do, especially in a crowded aesthetic market. Some of our competitors have newer or different products and more established customer relationships than we do, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. For example, we have encountered, and expect to continue to encounter, situations where, due to pre-existing relationships, potential customers decided to purchase additional products from our competitors. Potential customers also may need to recoup the cost of products that they have already purchased from our competitors and may decide not to purchase our products, or to delay such purchases. If we are unable to increase our market penetration or compete effectively, our revenue and profitability will be adversely impacted. 15 We compete against companies that offer alternative solutions to our products, or have greater resources, a larger installed base of customers and broader product offerings than ours. If we are not able to effectively compete with these companies, it may harm our business. Our industry is subject to intense competition. Our products compete against similar products offered by public companies, such as Cynosure, Elen (in Italy), Iridex, Palomar, Solta, and Syneron and as well as private companies such as Alma, Lumenis, Sciton and several other companies. Recently, there has been consolidation in the aesthetic industry leading to companies combining their resources. For example, Solta (previously Thermage) acquired Reliant in December 2008 and Aesthera in February 2010; and Syneron acquired Candela in September 2009. We are likely to compete with new companies in the future. Competition with these companies could result in reduced selling prices, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The energy-based aesthetic market faces competition from non energy-based medical products, such as Botox, an injectable compound used to reduce wrinkles, and collagen injections. Other alternatives to the use of our products include electrolysis, a procedure involving the application of electric current to eliminate hair follicles, and chemical peels. We may also face competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other products that have not yet been developed. If there is not sufficient consumer demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner demand for our products could be inhibited, resulting in unfavorable operating results and reduced growth potential. Continued expansion of the global market for laser and light-based aesthetic procedures is a material assumption of our business strategy. Most procedures performed using our products are elective procedures not reimbursable through government or private health insurance, with the costs borne by the patient. The decision to utilize our products may therefore be influenced by a number of factors, including: · Consumer disposable income and access to consumer credit, which as a result of the unstable economy, may have been significantly impacted; · The cost of procedures performed using our products; · The cost, safety and effectiveness of alternative treatments, including treatments which are not based upon laser or light-based technologies and treatments which use pharmaceutical products; · The success of our sales and marketing efforts; and · The education of our customers and patients on the benefits and uses of our products, compared to competitors’ products and technologies. If, as a result of these factors, there is not sufficient demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner demand for our products could be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, revenue and result of operations. Any defects in the design, material or workmanship of our products may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could materially increase our expenses, adversely impact profitability and harm our business. The design of our products is complex. To manufacture them successfully, we must procure quality components and employ individuals with a significant degree of technical expertise. If our designs are defective, or the material components used in our products are subject to wearing out, or if suppliers fail to deliver components to specification, or if our employees fail to properly assemble, test and package our products, the reliability and performance of our products will be adversely impacted. As an example, in 2010, we incurred significant expenses for the voluntary recall of our Titan XL hand pieces. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired easily, inexpensively, or on a timely basis, we may experience: · Damage to our brand reputation; · Loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; · Increased costs due to product repair or replacement; · Inability to attract new customers; · Diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and · Legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could materially increase expenses, adversely impact profitability and harm our business. 16 We face various risks and uncertainties as a result of our voluntary Titan XL recall program, including harm to our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. We discovered that under specific conditions, such as infrequent use or operators not following the prescribed maintenance program outlined in the owner’s manual, certain component parts of one of our hand pieces ─ the Titan XL ─ could become defective. As a result, the defective hand piece could produce energy above that stated on the device setting, which could cause injury to patients, including redness, erythema, blisters and burns. In response to discovering this issue, we initiated a voluntary recall of our global installed base of Titan XL hand pieces starting May 2010 and have now completed the recall. Following a voluntary recall, there is generally an increase in product liability lawsuits filed against the Company. If there were patients injured due to the malfunctioning of one of our voluntarily recalled Titan XL hand pieces that we are not presently aware of, we could incur significant legal fees and expenses in defending and/or settling such claims. Although we maintain product liability insurance and accrue for the cost of our deductible under such policies, there is no assurance that the entire loss of known claims or claims not known as of this point will be covered by our insurance. Each potential claim is evaluated on a case by case basis. At December 31, 2010, we have accrued for the cost of our deductible under our product liability insurance policy for all known claims. However, we have not recognized any potential contingent liability that may exceed our insurance coverage associated with any past or future lawsuits that may arise, as this is not estimable. Our Titan hand piece refill revenue decreased 31% in 2010, compared to 2009. This decrease was due primarily to our voluntary recall of our Titan XL hand piece in 2010, in which we provided our eligible customers with a fully refilled Titan XL hand piece. If customers do not return to using their Titan hand pieces due to this voluntary recall, our Titan refill revenue could be negatively impacted in the future. If either of the above mentioned two risks materializes, our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected, could materially harm our business, and our stock price could decline. Federal regulatory reforms and changes occurring at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, could adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably and financial condition. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a device. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Changes in FDA regulations may lengthen the regulatory approval process for medical devices and require additional clinical data to support regulatory clearance for the sale and marketing of our new products. In addition, it may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market. Either of these changes lengthen the duration to market, increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances for our products and indications, if clearances for future products and indications are delayed or not issued, if there are federal or state level regulatory changes or if we are found to have violated applicable FDA marketing rules, our commercial operations would be harmed. Our products are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA for manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or labeling claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-marketing approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. In the event that we do not obtain FDA clearances or approvals for our products, our ability to market and sell them in the United States and revenue derived there from may be adversely affected. Medical devices may be marketed in the United States only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared by the FDA. For example, our recently introduced GenesisPlus product has a number of general indications for use in the U.S. that allows us to market the product in the U.S., however we can only market it internationally for the treatment of toenail fungus as it has a CE Mark approval. Another example is our Pearl Fractional product which is cleared only for skin resurfacing in the U.S. and our Titan product only for deep heating for the temporary relief of muscle aches and pains in the U.S. Therefore, we are prevented from promoting or advertising GenesisPlus, Titan and Pearl Fractional in the United States for any other indications. If we fail to comply with these regulations, it could result in enforcement action by the FDA which could lead to such consequences as warning letters, adverse publicity, criminal enforcement action and/or third-party civil litigation, each of which could adversely affect us. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the indications for which we market our products. However, our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. We also are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Our products are also subject to state regulations, which are, in many instances frequently changing. Changes in state regulations may impede sales. For example, federal regulations allow our products to be sold to, or on the order of, “licensed practitioners,” as determined on a state-by-state basis. As a result, in some states, non-physicians may legally purchase our products. However, a state could change its regulations at any time, thereby disallowing sales to particular types of end users. We cannot predict the impact or effect of future legislation or regulations at the federal or state levels. 17 The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: · Warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; · Repair, replacement, recall or seizure of our products; · Operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · Refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; · Withdrawing 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals that have already been granted; and · Criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and laser performance standards, our manufacturing operations could be halted, and our business would suffer. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Because our products involve the use of lasers, our products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record-keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the QSR and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. We had a full quality system audit in 2008 and an FDA audit of compliance with laser performance standards in 2010. There were no significant findings as a result of these audits and our responses have been accepted by the FDA. Our failure to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or our failure to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, such as those described in the preceding paragraph, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. If we modify one of our FDA-approved devices, we may need to seek re-approval, which, if not granted, would prevent us from selling our modified products or cause us to redesign our products. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a pre-market approval. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearance would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearance or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign our products. We may be unable to obtain or maintain international regulatory qualifications or approvals for our current or future products and indications, which could harm our business. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. In addition, exports of medical devices from the United States are regulated by the FDA. Complying with international regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time-consuming process and approval is not certain. The time required for obtaining clearance or approvals, if required by other countries, may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approvals, and requirements for such clearances or approvals may significantly differ from FDA requirements. We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory qualifications, clearances or approvals in other countries. We may also incur significant costs in attempting to obtain and in maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or qualifications. If we experience delays in receiving necessary qualifications, clearances or approvals to market our products outside the United States, or if we fail to receive those qualifications, clearances or approvals, we may be unable to market our products or enhancements in international markets effectively, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and growth strategy. 18 Product liability suits could be brought against us due to a defective design, material or workmanship or misuse of our products and could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Misusing our products or failing to adhere to operating guidelines could cause significant eye and skin damage, and underlying tissue damage. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. We have been involved, and may in the future be involved, in litigation related to the use of our products. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all future claims. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and could reduce product sales. In addition, we historically experienced steep increases in our product liability insurance premiums as a percentage of revenue. If our premiums continue to rise, we may no longer be able to afford adequate insurance coverage. If customers are not trained and / or our products are used by non-physicians, it could result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation, result in product liability litigation, distract management, result in additional costs, all of which could harm our business. Because we do not require training for users of our products, and sell our products at times to non-physicians, there exists an increased potential for misuse of our products, which could harm our reputation and our business. U.S. federal regulations allow us to sell our products to or on the order of “licensed practitioners.” The definition of “licensed practitioners” varies from state to state. As a result, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training, and in many states, by non-physicians, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. Outside the United States, many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, nor do we require that direct medical supervision occur. We and our distributors generally offer but do not require product training to the purchasers or operators of our products. In addition, we sometimes sell our systems to companies that rent our systems to third parties and that provide a technician to perform the procedures. The lack of training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and our business, and, in the event these result in product liability litigation, distract management and subject us to liability, including legal expenses. We have recently entered into strategic alliances to distribute third party products internationally. To successfully market and sell these products, we must address many issues that are unique to these businesses and could reduce our available cash reserves and negatively impacting our profitability. Recently, we have entered into distribution arrangements pursuant to which we utilize our sales force and distributors to sell products manufactured by other companies. We entered into an agreement with Obagi to distribute certain of their proprietary cosmeceuticals, or skin care products, in Japan. This agreement requires us to purchase an annual minimum dollar amount of their product. During 2010 the initial year of the agreement, the minimum purchase requirement was $1.25 million. The minimum purchase requirement for 2011 and beyond has yet to be finalized but is expected to be consistent with 2010. If we do not make these minimum purchases, we could lose exclusivity for distributing Obagi products to physicians in Japan. In addition, in December 2009, we entered into an agreement with Sound Surgical Technologies, Inc. to distribute their VASER® Lipo System in certain European countries and Canada. However, in September 2010, we decided to discontinue distributing the VASER product. Finally, we also have an agreement with BioForm Medical Inc. (acquired by Merz Pharma Group in January 2009), to distribute their Radiesse® dermal filler product in Japan. Each of these distribution agreements presents its own unique risks and challenges. For example, to sell products in partnership with Obagi we need to invest in creating a sales structure that is experienced in the sale of cosmeceuticals and not in capital equipment. We need to commit resources to training this sales force, obtaining regulatory licenses in Japan and developing new marketing materials to promote the sale of Obagi products. For each of these distribution arrangements, until we can develop our own experienced sales force, we may need to pay third party distributors to sell the products which will result in higher fees and lower margins than if we sell direct to customers. In addition, the minimum commitments and other costs of distributing products manufactured by these companies may exceed the incremental revenue that we derive from the sale of their products thereby reducing our available cash reserves and negatively impacting our profitability. To successfully market and sell our products internationally, we must address many issues that are unique to our international business. Our international revenue was $33.9 million or 64% of our total revenue in 2010. International revenue is a material component of our business strategy. We depend on third-party distributors and a direct sales force to sell our products internationally, and if they underperform, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of international revenue. To grow our business, we will need to improve productivity in current sales territories and expand into new territories. However, direct sales productivity may not improve and distributors may not accept our business or commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. As a result, we may not be able to increase or maintain international revenue growth. 19 We believe, as we continue to manage our international operations and develop opportunities in additional international territories, our international revenue will be subject to a number of risks, including: · Difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign operations; · Export restrictions, trade regulations and foreign tax laws; · Fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates; · Foreign certification and regulatory requirements; · Lengthy payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; · Customs clearance and shipping delays; · Political and economic instability; · Lack of awareness of our brand in international markets; · Preference for locally-produced products; and · Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. If one or more of these risks were realized, it could require us to dedicate significant resources to remedy the situation; and if we were unsuccessful at finding a solution, we may not be able to sell our products in a particular market and, as a result, our revenue may decline. If PSS World Medical fails to perform to our expectations, we may fail to achieve anticipated operating results. We have a distribution agreement with PSS World Medical. PSS sales professionals work in coordination with our sales force to locate new customers for our products throughout the United States. Revenue from PSS has significantly declined since 2008. Our revenue from PSS, as a percentage of worldwide revenue, was 5% in 2010, 7% in 2009 and 14% in 2008. Although we continue to work closely with, and focus our attention on, our PSS relationship, there is no assurance that this will translate into increased revenue for us. Further, if revenue from PSS does not improve, or if they terminate our relationship, it may have a significant adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our marketable investments or impair our liquidity. We invest our excess cash primarily in money market funds and in highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, and U.S. municipalities. As of December 31, 2010, our balance in marketable investment was $77.5 million. The longer the duration of a security, the more susceptible it is to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. For example, assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the fair value of our total investment portfolio as of December 31, 2010 would have potentially decreased by approximately $651,000, resulting in an unrealized loss that would subsequently adversely impact our earnings. As a result, changes in the market interest rates will affect our future net income (loss). We may be required to record impairment charges in future quarters as a result of the decline in value of our long-term investments in auction rate securities (ARS). Included under the caption of “Long-term investments” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2010 are $6.8 million of ARS. These ARS were designed to provide liquidity through an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, generally every 35 days. Though approximately $5.1 million (par value) of our original holdings of $13.4 million (par value) of ARS have been redeemed at full par value since 2008, auctions for the remaining ARS in our portfolio at December 31, 2010 continue to fail and they remain as illiquid. Upon an auction failure, the interest rates do not reset at a market rate but instead reset based on a formula contained in the prospectus of the individual security, which rate is generally higher than the prevailing market rate. The failure of the auctions impacts our ability to readily liquidate our ARS into cash until a future auction of these investments is successful, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the ARS is refinanced by the issuer into another type of debt instrument. If there is a decline in fair value in our ARS that is considered other-than-temporary then we would have to record an impairment charge in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the loss in value associated with the worsening of the credit worthiness (credit losses) of the issuer, which would reduce future earnings, harm our business and may cause our stock price to decline. We depend on skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are unable to recruit, hire, train and retain these employees, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees. Except for Change of Control and Severance Agreements for our executive officers, we do not have employment contracts with any of our officers or other key employees. Any of our officers and other key employees may terminate their employment at any time. We do not have a succession plan in place for each of our officers and key employees. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our senior management team members could weaken our management expertise and harm our business. 20 Our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees are critical factors in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel. We may face particularly significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees. Failure to attract, train and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel, would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. We have a limited number of shares of common stock outstanding, a large portion of which is held by a small number of investors, which could result in the increase in volatility of our stock price. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 51% of our outstanding shares of common stock were held by 10 institutional investors. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. The public market price of our common stock has in the past fluctuated substantially and, due to the current concentration of stockholders, it may continue to do so in the future. The market price for our common stock could also be affected by a number of other factors, including: · The general market conditions unrelated to our operating performance; · Sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and our large institutional investors; · Quarterly variations in our, or our competitors’, results of operations; · Changes in analysts’ estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ estimates; · The announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; · The announcement of the departure of a key employee or executive officer by us or our competitor; · Regulatory developments or delays concerning our, or our competitors’ products; and · The initiation of litigation by us or against us. Actual or perceived instability in our stock price could reduce demand from potential buyers of our stock, thereby causing our stock price to either remain depressed or to decline further. We may be involved in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact our future business and financial performance. Our competitors or other patent holders may assert that our present or future products and the methods we employ are covered by their patents. In addition, we do not know whether our competitors own or will obtain patents that they may claim prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use, sell or import our products. Although we may seek to resolve any potential future claims or actions, we may not be able to do so on reasonable terms, or at all. If, following a successful third-party action for infringement, we cannot obtain a license or redesign our products, we may have to stop manufacturing and selling the applicable products and our business would suffer as a result. In addition, a court could require us to pay substantial damages, and prohibit us from using technologies essential to our products, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may become involved in litigation not only as a result of alleged infringement of a third party’s intellectual property rights but also to protect our own intellectual property. For example, we have been, and may hereafter become, involved in litigation to protect the trademark rights associated with our company name or the names of our products. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and could divert management’s attention from our core business. Any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. From time to time we evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. We may also consider joint ventures and other collaborative projects. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate any businesses, products or technologies that we acquire. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition and management of any collaborative project may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations and we may incur significant legal, accounting and banking fees in connection with such a transaction. In addition, if we purchase a company that is not profitable, our cash balances may be reduced or depleted. We do not have any experience as a team with acquiring companies or products. If we decide to expand our product offerings beyond laser and light-based products, we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. Any cash acquisition we pursue would diminish our available cash balances to us for other uses, and any stock acquisition could be dilutive to our stockholders. 21 While we from time to time evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions or collaborative projects. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Many of the components and materials that comprise our products are currently manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond our current suppliers’ capabilities could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified and qualified. Our reliance on these suppliers subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business, including: · Interruption of supply resulting from modifications to or discontinuation of a supplier’s operations; · Delays in product shipments resulting from uncorrected defects, reliability issues or a supplier’s variation in a component; · A lack of long term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; · Inability to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner, or on reasonable terms; · Difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our components in a timely manner; · Production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; and · Delay in supplier deliveries. Any interruption in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection for some or all of our products, which may permit third parties to compete against us more effectively. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and products. At December 31, 2010, we had 17 issued U.S. patents. Some of our components, such as our laser module, electronic control system and high-voltage electronics, are not, and in the future may not be, protected by patents. Additionally, our patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we obtain may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. Consequently, competitors could market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to, or superior to, ours. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized uses and disclosures of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. Moreover, the laws of many foreign countries will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The absence of complete intellectual property protection exposes us to a greater risk of direct competition. Competitors could purchase one of our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, design around our protected technology, or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position and our business could be adversely affected. Healthcare reform legislation could adversely affect our future profitability and financial condition. The President and members of Congress passed legislation relating to healthcare reform. Our products are not reimbursed by insurance companies or federal or state governments and some of this legislation will, therefore, not affect us. This legislation, however, does include several aspects that will apply to us, including a tax on our U.S. revenue which is applicable to us beginning in 2013. While we are presently evaluating the full scope of how this legislation will impact our operations, including how to administer this tax, we believe this will adversely affect our future profitability and financial condition. 22 We offer credit terms to some qualified customers and also to leasing companies to finance the purchase of our products. In the event that any of these customers default on the amounts payable to us, our earnings may be adversely affected. While we qualify customers to whom we offer credit terms (generally net 30 to 60 days), we cannot provide any assurance that the financial position of these customers will not change adversely before we receive payment. Our general and administrative expenses and earnings are negatively impacted by customer defaults and cause an increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts. In the event that there is a default by any customers to whom we have provided credit terms in the future, we may recognize a bad debt charge in our general and administrative expenses and this could negatively affect our earnings and results of operations. We are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. As a result of recent fluctuations in currency markets and the strong dollar relative to many other major currencies, our products priced in U.S. dollars may be more expensive relative to products of our foreign competitors, which could result in lower revenue. We do not actively hedge our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. While we transact business primarily in U.S. Dollars, and a significant proportion of our revenue is denominated in U.S. Dollars, a portion of our costs and revenue is denominated in other currencies, such as the Euro, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar and British Pound Sterling. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies to the U.S. Dollar will affect our net income (loss). The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and therefore our financial condition. Some of our customers and prospective customers have had difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operation and use of our products. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain states or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using our products and potential customers may opt against purchasing laser and light based products due to the cost or inability to procure insurance coverage. The unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers and prospects could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and that could harm our financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover, and might make it more difficult for an investor to acquire a substantial block of our common stock. These provisions include: · A classified board of directors; · Advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; · A supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws; · Limitations on stockholder actions by written consent; and · The right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. These provisions, as well as Change of Control and Severance Agreements entered into with each of our executive officers, might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 