Item 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS If we fail to effectively expand our operations and capacity to satisfy demand for our products, our results of operations and business prospects could be impaired. 5 Our future success depends on our ability to expand our business to address growth in demand for our alternator and starter products. We are currently in the process of constructing new production lines which began full production in December 2007, resulting in total production capacity for alternators and starters of approximately 2.2 million and 1.8 millionunits, respectively. Our ability to add production capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: · the availability of additional funding to build manufacturing facilities and purchase components, accessories and other raw materials on favorable terms or at all; · our management and minimization of delays and cost overruns caused by problems with our equipment vendors, suppliers and third-party manufacturers; and · our receipt of any necessary government approvals or permits that may be required to expand our operations in a timely manner or at all. Our failure to effectively expand our manufacturing capacity will harm our operating results and our business prospects. Our rapid expansion could significantly strain our resources, management and operational infrastructure which could impair our ability to meet increased demand for our products and hurt our business results. To accommodate our anticipated growth, we will need to expend capital resources and dedicate personnel to implement and upgrade our accounting, operational and internal management systems and enhance our record keeping and contract tracking system. Such measures will require us to dedicate additional financial resources and personnel to optimize our operational infrastructure and to recruit more personnel to train and manage our growing employee base. If we cannot successfully implement these measures efficiently and cost-effectively, we will be unable to satisfy the demand for our products, which will impair our revenue growth and hurt our overall financial performance. If we fail to accurately project market demand for our products, our business expansion plan could be jeopardized and our financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Based primarily on our projected increases in our sales volume and growth in the size of the automotive market in China, we plan to increase our annual manufacturing capacity to meet an expected increase in demand for our products. If actual customer orders are less than our projected market demand, we will likely suffer overcapacity problems and may have to leave capacity idle, which may reduce our overall profitability and hurt our financial condition and results of operations. We derive most of our sales revenue from sales of our products in China. The continued development of our business depends, in large part, on continued growth in the automotive industry, especially in China. Although China’s automotive industry has grown rapidly in the past, it may not continue to grow at the same growth rate in the future or at all. However, the developments in our industry are, to a large extent, outside of our control and any reduced demand for automotive parts products and services, any other downturn or other adverse changes in China’s automotive industry could severely harm our business. 6 Our business is capital intensive and our growth strategy may require additional capital which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We believe that our current cash and cash flow from operations and the proceeds raised from the sale of our stock to the selling stockholders in December 2007 will be sufficient to meet our present and reasonably anticipated cash needs. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy to expand our manufacturing capacity or other investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our own financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could limit our ability to expand our business operations and could harm our overall business prospects. Due to our rapid growth in recent years, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance so evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult. Our business has grown and evolved rapidly in recent years as demonstrated by our growth in sales revenue from approximately $48.1 million in 2005 to $102.1 million in 2007. We may not be able to achieve similar growth in future periods, and our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. Moreover, our ability to achieve satisfactory manufacturing results at higher volumes is unproven. Therefore, you should not rely on our past results or our historical rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. We face risks associated with future investments or acquisitions. An important element of our growth strategy is to invest in or acquire businesses that will enable us, among other things, to expand the products we offer to our existing target customer base, lower our costs for raw materials and components and capitalize on opportunities to expand into new markets. Within the past two years, we acquired controlling interests in two complementary businesses, Jinzhou Dongwoo and Jinzhou Wanyou, which we expect to contribute to our future growth. In the future, we may be unable to identify other suitable investment or acquisition candidates or may be unable to make these investments or acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. Integrating an acquired business is distracting and time consuming, as well as a potentially expensive process. We are currently in the process of integrating our operations with the operations of Jinzhou Dongwoo and Jinzhou Wanyou. The successful integration of these companies and any other acquired businesses require us to: · integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; · incorporate the acquired products or capabilities into our offerings from an engineering, sales and marketing perspective; · coordinate research and development efforts; · integrate and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships; and · consolidate duplicate facilities and functions and combine back office accounting, order processing and support functions. Geographic distance between business operations, the compatibility of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined also present significant challenges. 7 Acquired businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems. Our focus on integrating operations may also distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from past and future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. Our acquisition strategy also depends on our ability to obtain necessary government approvals, as described under “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China— We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006.” Any interruption in our production processes could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. We manufacture or assemble our products at our facilities in Jinzhou, China. Our manufacturing operations are complicated and integrated, involving the coordination of raw material and component sourcing from third parties, internal production processes and external distribution processes. While these operations are modified on a regular basis in an effort to improve manufacturing and distribution efficiency and flexibility, we may experience difficulties in coordinating the various aspects of our manufacturing processes, thereby causing downtime and delays. We have also been steadily increasing our production capacity and have limited experience operating at these higher production volume levels. In addition, we may encounter interruption in our manufacturing processes due to a catastrophic loss or events beyond our control, such as fires, explosions, labor disturbances or violent weather conditions. Any interruptions in our production or capabilities at our facilities could result in our inability to produce our products, which would reduce our sales revenue and earnings for the affected period. If there is a stoppage in production at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or delays in delivery times to our customers, our business and reputation could be severely affected. Any significant delays in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales. We currently do not have business interruption insurance to offset these potential losses, delays and risks so a material interruption of our business operations could severely damage our business. Part of our strategy involves the development of new products, and if we fail to timely develop new products or we incorrectly gauge the potential market for new products, our financial results will be adversely affected. We plan to utilize our in-house research and development capabilities to develop new products that could become new sources of revenue for us in the future and help us to diversify our revenue base. Our future research and development efforts will be focused on expanding our product offering beyond alternators and starters into other similar products and components for different applications, such as hub motors for electric bicycles and electric vehicles. If we fail to timely develop new products or if we miscalculate market demand for new products that we develop, we may not be able to grow our sales revenue at expected growth rates and may incur expenses relating to the development of new products that are not offset by sufficient sales revenue generated by these new products. Exporting our products outside of China is a core component of our overall growth strategy, which could subject us to various economic, political, regulatory, legal and foreign exchange risks. We currently sell most of our products in China. Our overseas sales accounted for 1.4% ,4.8% and 9.6% of our total sales in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We plan to selectively enter international markets in which an opportunity to sell our products has been identified. The marketing, distribution and sale of our products overseas expose us to a number of risks, including: · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 8 · difficulty in designing products that are compatible with product standards in foreign countries; · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; · increased marketing and sales costs; · difficulty and costs of compliance with foreign regulatory requirements and different commercial and legal requirements; · an inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights in foreign countries; · changes to import and export regulations, including quotas, tariffs and other trade barriers, delays or difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses, repatriation controls on foreign earnings and currency conversion restrictions; and · difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors and agents who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets. If we cannot effectively manage these risks, our ability to conduct or expand our business abroad would be impaired, which may in turn hamper our business, financial condition and prospects. If we cannot keep pace with market changes and produce automotive parts with new technologies in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ requirements and preferences, the growth and success of our business will be hindered. The automotive parts market in China is characterized by increasing demand for new and advanced technologies, evolving industry standards, intense competition and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. If we cannot keep pace with market changes and produce automotive parts incorporating new technologies in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ requirements and preferences, the growth and success of our business will suffer. From time to time, new products, product enhancements or technologies may replace or shorten the life cycles of our products or cause our customers to defer purchases of our existing products. Shorter product life cycles may require us to invest more in developing and designing new products and to introduce new products more rapidly, which may increase our costs of product development and decrease our profitability. In addition, we may not be able to make such additional investments and any additional investments we make in new product development and introductions may not be successful. Even if we develop and introduce new products, their market acceptance is not assured and depends on: · the perceived advantages of our new products over existing competing products; · our ability to attract vehicle manufacturers who are currently using our competitors’ products; · product cost relative to performance; and · the level of customer service available to support new products. Therefore, commercial acceptance by customers of our products may not occur at our expected rate or level, and we may not be able to successfully adapt existing products to effectively and economically meet customer demand, thus impairing the return from our investments. We may also be required under applicable accounting standards to recognize a charge for the impairment of assets to the extent our existing products become uncompetitive or obsolete or if any new products fail to achieve commercial acceptance. Any such charge may jeopardize our ability to operate profitably. 9 Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We strive to strengthen and differentiate our product portfolio by developing new and innovative products and product improvements. As a result, we believe that the protection of our intellectual property will become increasingly important to our business. Implementation and enforcement of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking due primarily to ambiguities in PRC intellectual property law. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property and proprietary rights in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Currently, we hold 18 PRC utility patents that relate to various product configurations and product components and have 32 pending PRC patent applications. We will continue to rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to provide protection in this regard, but this protection may be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications may not be approved or, if allowed, they may not be of sufficient strength or scope. As a result, third parties may use the technologies and proprietary processes that we have developed and compete with us, which could negatively affect any competitive advantage we enjoy, dilute our brand and harm our operating results. In addition, policing the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, there is no guarantee litigation would result in an outcome favorable to us. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention away from our core business. An adverse determination in any lawsuit involving our intellectual property is likely to jeopardize our business prospects and reputation. We have no insurance coverage against litigation costs so we would be forced to bear all litigation costs if we cannot recover them from other parties. All of the foregoing factors could harm our business and financial condition. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely against us, could disrupt our business and subject us to significant liability to third parties. Our success largely depends on our ability to use and develop our technology, know-how and product designs without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. The holders of patents and other intellectual property rights potentially relevant to our product offerings may be unknown to us or may otherwise make it difficult for us to acquire a license on commercially acceptable terms. Wonder Auto Group Limited, a Hong Kong company controlled by Mr. Qingjie Zhao, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, has registered the “ ” trademark in Hong Kong. Jinzhou Wonder Auto Suspension System Co., Ltd. Has registered the trademarks “ ” and “ ” in China. An independent third party entity has registered the “Halla” trademark in China. We currently do not sell any products or services using the marks similar to the trademarks registered by Jinzhou Wonder Auto Suspension System Co., Ltd. Or “Halla” trademarks. We have entered into an agreement with Jinzhou Wonder Auto Suspension System Co., Ltd. Under this agreement, Jinzhou Wonder Auto Suspension System Co., Ltd. Has agreed not to bring any legal action against us for using the mark “ ” in China. However, we cannot assure you that this agreement will be enforced or that no action will be brought against us based on our use of “ ”. 10 There may also be technologies licensed to and relied on by us that are subject to infringement or other corresponding allegations or claims by others which could damage our ability to rely on such technologies. In addition, although we endeavor to ensure that companies that work with us possess appropriate intellectual property rights or licenses, we cannot fully avoid the risks of intellectual property rights infringement created by suppliers of components used in our products or by companies with which we work in cooperative research and development activities. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have obtained or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in China or other countries. The defense of intellectual property claims, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which we may become a party could cause us to: · pay damage awards; · seek licenses from third parties; · pay additional ongoing royalties, which could decrease our profit margins; · redesign our products; or · be restricted by injunctions. These factors could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business objectives and result in our customers or potential customers deferring, canceling or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on certain technologies licensed to us from third parties and the loss of these licenses or failure to renew such licenses on a timely basis could interrupt our production and have a material adverse impact on our business. We rely on certain technologies licensed to us from third parties for manufacturing our products. Through our licensing arrangements, we are able to integrate third party technologies into our alternators and starters. We can also produce and sell products that are more suitable for specific types of vehicles utilizing these licensed technologies. If certain licenses are terminated, or not timely renewed, the production of our products using the licensed technologies would be disrupted and our business and financial condition could be damaged. If we fail to maintain or improve our market position or respond successfully to changes in the competitive landscape, our business and results of operations will suffer. Our competition includes a number of global and PRC-based manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours. We compete primarily on the basis of quality, technological innovation and price. Our main competitors include Shanghai Valeo Automotive Electrical Systems Co., Ltd., a joint venture of Shanghai Auto Industrial Group and Valeo Group, Hubei Shendian Auto Motor Co., Ltd., a joint venture of Hubei Shendian Auto Electrical Equipment Co., Ltd. And Remy International, Inc., Bosch Group, Mitsubishi Motors Corporation and Denso Corporation. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger global market share, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater economies of scale, as well as greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. As a result of these competitive pressures and expected increases in competition, we may price our products lower than our competitors in order to maintain market share. Any lower pricing may negatively affect our profit margins. If we fail to maintain or improve our market position and respond successfully to changes in the competitive landscape, our business and results of operations may suffer. 11 A large percentage of our sales revenue is derived from sales to a limited number of customers, and our business will suffer if sales to these customers decline. A significant portion of our sales revenue historically has been derived from a limited number of customers. Five customers—Beijing Hyundai Motor Company, Shenyang Aerospace Mitsubishi Motors Engine Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Harbin Dongan Automotive Engine Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Tianjin FAW Xiali Automotive Co., Ltd. And Shenyang Xinguang Huachen Automotive Engine Co., Ltd.—accounted for approximately 55.8% of our sales in 2006 and 60% in 2007.Any significant reduction in demand for vehicles manufactured by any of these major customers and any decrease in their demand for our products could harm our sales and business operations. The loss of one or more of these customers could damage our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot obtain sufficient raw materials and components at a reasonable cost, our ability to produce and market our products, and thus our business, could suffer. We purchase raw materials and component parts for our products from various suppliers located primarily in Asia, most of which are located in China and a few of which are located in South Korea. The raw materials and component parts that we use are mainly divided into four categories: metal parts, semiconductors, chemicals and packaging materials. The majority of our raw materials and components are purchased from suppliers in China, including Jinzhou Dongwoo, a company in which we hold a 50% equity interest and control the board of directors, Jinzhou Hanhua Electrical Systems Co., Ltd., Tianjin Jingda Rea Special Enamelled Wire Co., Ltd., Yingkou Die-Casting Products Co., Ltd. And foreign manufacturers based in South Korea, such as SW-Tech Corporation. Purchases from our five largest raw materials and component parts suppliers accounted for approximately 62.56% in 2007. We may experience a shortage in the supply of certain raw materials and components in the future, and if any such shortage occurs, our manufacturing capabilities and operating results of operations could be negatively affected. If any supplier is unwilling or unable to provide us with high-quality raw materials and components in required quantities and at acceptable costs, we may not be able to find alternative sources on satisfactory terms in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, some of our suppliers may fail to meet qualifications and standards required by our customers now or in the future, which could impact our ability to source raw materials and components. Our inability to find or develop alternative supply sources could result in delays or reductions in manufacturing and product shipments. Moreover, these suppliers may delay shipments or supply us with inferior quality raw materials and components that may adversely impact the performance of our products. The prices of raw materials and components needed for our products could also increase, and we may not be able to pass these price increases on to our customers. If any of these events occur, our competitive position, reputation and business could suffer. If our customers and/or the ultimate consumers of the vehicles that use our products successfully assert product liability claims against us due to defects in our products, our operating results may suffer and our reputation may be harmed. Our products are used primarily in small engine passenger vehicles. Significant property damage, personal injuries and even death can result from malfunctioning vehicles. If our products are not properly designed, built or installed or if people are injured because of our products, we could be subject to claims for damages based on theories of product liability and other legal theories. The costs and resources to defend such claims could be substantial and, if such claims are successful, we could be responsible for paying some or all of the damages. We have maintained product liability insurance only for products manufactured by Jinzhou Wanyou, which are sold in the United States and Canada. Negative publicity from such claims may also damage our reputation, regardless of whether such claims are successful. Any of these consequences resulting from defects in our products would hurt our operating results and, in turn, the value of our common stock. 12 Our products may become subject to recall in the event of defects or other performance related issues. Like many other participants in the automotive industry, we are at risk for product recall costs which are costs incurred when, either voluntarily or involuntarily, a product is recalled through a formal campaign to solicit the return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance defect. Costs typically include the cost of the product, part or component being replaced, the cost of the recall borne by our customers and labor to remove and replace the defective part or component. Our products have not been the subject of an open recall. If a recall decision is made, we will need to estimate the cost of the recall and record a charge to earnings in that period. In making this estimate, judgment is required as to the quantity or volume to be recalled, the total cost of the recall campaign, the ultimate negotiated sharing of the cost between us and the customer and, in some cases, the extent to which the supplier of the part or component will share in the recall cost. As a result, these estimates are subject to change. Excessive recall costs or our failure to adequately estimate these costs may negatively affect our operating results. Our business may adversely change due to the cyclical nature of the automotive industry. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on the varying conditions in the automotive markets that we serve. The volume of automobile production in Asia, North America, Europe and the rest of the world has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in demand for our products. These fluctuations in demand in the automotive industry often are in response to overall economic conditions but are also a reaction to certain external factors, such as changes in interest rate levels, vehicle manufacturer incentive programs, changes in fuel costs, consumer spending and confidence and environmental issues. If the automotive market experiences a downturn, our results of operations and business will suffer. We depend heavily on key personnel, and loss of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Qingjie Zhao, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Meirong Yuan, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Yuncong Ma, our Chief Operating Officer, Seuk Jun Kim, our Vice President of New Product Development, Yuguo Zhao, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing and Yongdong Liu, our Vice President of Production. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team and impair our operations. In addition, if any of these key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. We have entered into confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of these key personnel. However, if any disputes arise between these key personnel and us, it is not clear, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, what the court decisions will be and the extent to which these court decisions could be enforced in China, where all of these key personnel reside and hold some of their assets. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” 13 Certain of our existing stockholders have substantial influence over our company, and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other stockholders. Mr. Qingjie Zhao, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, is the beneficial owner of approximately 20.8% of our common stock. As a result, he has significant influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a future change of control, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our shares. Mr. Qingjie Zhao’s association with other businesses could impede his ability to devote ample time to our business and could pose conflicts of interest. Mr. Qingjie Zhao, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, is the beneficial owner of 20.8% of our common stock, serves as an executive director and is a 10.4% owner of China Wonder Limited, a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of specialty packaging machinery to the PRC pharmaceutical market. He also serves as an executive director and is an 11.0% owner of Jinzhou Jinheng Automotive Safety System Co., Ltd., a company listed on the Hong Kong Growth Enterprise Market, which is principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of automotive airbag safety systems in China. Mr. Zhao devotes most of his business time to our affairs and the remainder of his business time to the affairs of other companies. Mr. Zhao’s decision-making responsibilities for these three companies are similar in the areas of public relations, management of human resources, risk management and strategic planning. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise from time to time. We will attempt to resolve any such conflicts of interest in our favor. Additionally, even though Mr. Zhao is accountable to us and our stockholders as a fiduciary, which requires that he exercise good faith and due care in handling our affairs, his existing responsibilities to other entities may limit the amount of time he can spend on our affairs. Problems with product quality or product performance could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our operating results depend, in part, on our ability to deliver quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis. As our products become more advanced, it may become more difficult to maintain our quality standards. If we experience deterioration in the performance or quality of any of our products, it could result in delays in shipments, cancellations of orders or customer returns and complaints, loss of goodwill and harm to our brand and reputation. Furthermore, our products are used together with components and in motor vehicles that have been developed and maintained by third parties, and when a problem occurs, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. In addition, some automobile parts and components may not be fully compatible with our products and may not meet our or our customers’ quality, safety, security or other standards. The use by customers of our products with incompatible or otherwise substandard components is largely outside of our control and could result in malfunctions or defects in our products and result in harm to our brand. These problems may lead to a decrease in customers and revenue, harm to our brand, unexpected expenses, loss of market share, the incurrence of significant warranty and repair costs, diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, customer relation problems or loss of customers, any one of which could materially adversely affect our business. Environmental claims or failure to comply with any present or future environmental regulations may require us to spend additional funds and may harm our results of operations. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that affect our operations, facilities and products in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We believe that we are in compliance with all material environmental, health and safety laws and regulations related to our products, operations and business activities. Although we have not suffered material environmental claims in the past, the failure to comply with any present or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production, cessation of our operations or even criminal sanctions. New regulations could also require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business operations, which could cause damage to our business. 14 We have limited insurance coverage and do not carry any business interruption insurance, third-party liability insurance for our manufacturing facilities or insurance that covers the risk of loss of our products in shipment. Operation of our facilities involves many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, industrial accidents, power outages, labor disturbances and other business interruptions. Furthermore, if any of our products are faulty, then we may become subject to product liability claims or we may have to engage in a product recall. We do not carry any business interruption insurance, product recall or third-party liability insurance for our manufacturing facilities or with respect to our products to cover claims pertaining to personal injury or property or environmental damage arising from defaults with our products, product recalls, accidents on our property or damage relating to our operations. We have obtained product liability insurance only for products manufactured by Jinzhou Wanyou which are sold to customers in the United States and Canada. Therefore, our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all risks associated with our business. As a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, under the shipping terms of some of our customer contracts, we bear the risk of loss in shipment of our products. We do not insure this risk. While we believe that the shipping companies that we use carry adequate insurance or are sufficiently solvent to cover any loss in shipment, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately reimbursed upon the loss of a significant shipment of our products. The discontinuation of the preferential tax treatment currently available to our PRC subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, established in the PRC are generally subject to an enterprise income tax, or EIT, rate of 33.0%, which includes a 30.0% state income tax and a 3.0% local income tax. FIEs established in Coastal Open Economic Zones, Special Economic Zones or Economic and Technical Development Zones, such as our PRC subsidiaries, are subject to an EIT rate of 27.0%, which is comprised of a 24.0% state income tax and a 3.0% local income tax. Under the income tax law and the related implementing rules, FIEs engaging in manufacturing businesses with a term of operation exceeding ten years may, subject to approval from local taxation authorities, be entitled to a two-year tax exemption from PRC EIT starting from the year they become profitable and a 50.0% tax reduction for the three years thereafter. Our subsidiaries Jinzhou Halla, Jinzhou Dongwoo and Jinzhou Wanyou are subject to PRC EIT at a rate of 27.0% of assessable profits, consisting of a 24.0% national tax and a 3.0% local tax. As approved by the relevant PRC tax authority, Jinzhou Halla and Jinzhou Dongwoo were entitled to a two-year exemption from EIT followed by a 50.0% tax exemption for the next three years, commencing from the first cumulative profit-making year in the fiscal financial year. The tax holiday of Jinzhou Halla commenced in 2001, and Jinzhou Halla was subject to a tax rate of 13.5% for 2003, 2004 and 2005. Furthermore, Jinzhou Halla, as an FIE, is engaged in an advanced technology industry and has been approved to enjoy a further 50.0% tax exemption for 2006, 2007 and 2008. The tax holiday of Jinzhou Dongwoo commenced in 2004. Jinzhou Dongwoo was subject to a tax rate of 13.5% for 2006 and is expected to be subject to a tax rate of 13.5% for 2007 and 2008. Finally, Jinzhou Wanyou, is entitled to a two-year EIT exemption for 2007 and 2008 and will receive a 50.0% EIT reduction for 2009, 2010 and 2011, assuming that Jinzhou Wanyou is profitable for each of these years. 15 In addition, Jinzhou Halla and Jinzhou Dongwoo, being FIEs, were entitled to two other special tax concessions. First, an amount equal to 40.0% of the qualifying domestic capital expenditures (as defined and approved under the relevant PRC income tax rule) can be used as an offset against the excess of the current year’s EIT over the prior year’s EIT. Second, an amount equivalent to 50.0% of the current year’s domestic development expenses can be used as an offset against EIT. These two tax concessions, if unutilized, can be carried forward for five years. If this preferential tax treatment is discontinued by the tax authorities or is eliminated due to future changes in PRC tax laws, rules or regulations, our PRC operating subsidiaries may cease to enjoy the aforementioned tax benefits. If that were to occur, our PRC operating subsidiaries would thereafter be subject to a 27.0% standard EIT rate under the current tax laws through 2007 and up to a 25.0% rate from January 1, 2008 under the new tax law described below, which would significantly increase our effective tax rate and materially adversely affect our operating results. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China passed the new EIT Law, which will take effect as of January 1, 2008. Under the new EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a resident enterprise and will normally be subject to EIT at the rate of 25.0% on its global income. The new EIT Law, however, does not define the term “de facto management bodies.” If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our global income will be subject to PRC income tax at a tax rate of 25.0%. In addition, under the new EIT Law, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries to us will be subject to a withholding tax. The rate of the withholding tax has not yet been finalized, pending promulgation of implementing regulations. Furthermore, the ultimate tax rate will be determined by treaty between China and the tax residence of the holder of the PRC subsidiaries. We are actively monitoring the proposed withholding tax and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to minimize the corresponding tax impact. The new EIT Law imposes a unified income tax rate of 25.0% on all domestic-invested enterprises and FIEs, such as our PRC operating subsidiaries, unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions, but the EIT Law permits companies to continue to enjoy their existing preferential tax treatments until such treatments expire in accordance with their current terms. We expect details of the transitional arrangement for the five-year period from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2012 applicable to enterprises approved for establishment prior to March 16, 2007 to be set out in more detailed implementing rules to be adopted in the future. Any increase in our effective tax rate as a result of the above may adversely affect our operating results. However, details regarding implementation of this new law are expected to be provided in the form of one or more implementing regulations to be promulgated by the PRC government, and the timing of the issuance of such implementing regulations is currently unclear. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have the operating effectiveness of our internal controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. We are subject to this requirement commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 and a report of our management is included under Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, SOX 404 requires the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements to also attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of such company’s internal controls. However, this annual report does not include an attestation report because under the current law, we will not be subject to these requirements until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. 16 We can provide no assurance that we will be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by SOX 404 or that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Our holding company structure may hinder the payment of dividends. Wonder Auto Technology, Inc. has no direct business operations, other than its ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us due to restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. PRC regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of sales revenue or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under PRC accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by PRC accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. In addition, under the new EIT Law to be effective in January 2008, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries to us will be subject to a withholding tax. The rate of the withholding tax has not yet been finalized, pending promulgation of implementing regulations. Furthermore, the ultimate tax rate will be determined by treaty between China and the tax residence of the holder of the PRC subsidiary. We are monitoring the proposed withholding tax and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to minimize the corresponding tax impact. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: 17 · the higher level of government involvement; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; · the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of automotive investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all but two of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese officers, directors and subsidiaries. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. 18 Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. Most of our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under PRC law, the Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by PRC operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect our PRC operating subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued a public notice, the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, or the SAFE Notice, which requires PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before using onshore assets or equity interests held by them to establish offshore special purpose companies, or SPVs, for the purpose of overseas equity financing. Under the SAFE Notice, such PRC residents must also file amendments to their registration in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Moreover, if the SPVs were established and owned the onshore assets or equity interests before the implementation date of the SAFE Notice, a retroactive SAFE registration is required to have been completed before March 31, 2006. If any PRC resident stockholder of any SPV fails to make the required SAFE registration and amended registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that SPV may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV. Failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could also result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. 19 We believe our stockholders who are PRC residents as defined in the SAFE Notice have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by the SAFE Notice. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how the SAFE Notice will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE Notice by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by the SAFE Notice. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with the SAFE Notice, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006. The recent PRC Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors also governs the approval process by which a PRC company may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the new regulation will require the PRC parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the PRC business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulation also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the new regulation, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate a business combination transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a business combination transaction. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and the Renminbi and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in Renminbi and the net proceeds from this offering will be denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds, our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars following this offering. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue after this offering that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. 20 Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, some of our raw materials, components and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against Renminbi, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, since our sales to international customers are growing rapidly, we are increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK GENERALLY The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. For instance, between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2007, the closing bid price of our common stock, as reported on the markets on which our securities have traded, ranged between $1.02 and $11.21. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: · expiration of lock-up agreements; · our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; · changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; · speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; · significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; · stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the automotive parts or automotive industry; 21 · customer demand for our products; · investor perceptions of the automotive parts and automotive industries in general and our company in particular; · the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; · general economic conditions and trends; · major catastrophic events; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; · loss of external funding sources; · sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and · additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. Future sales or perceived sales of our common stock could depress our stock price. All of our executive officers and directors and certain of our stockholders have agreed not to sell shares of our common stock prior to the date that is the earlier of (i) the date of the effectiveness of the registration statement or (ii) the date that is 90 days after the closing of this offering. Shares of common stock subject to these lock-up agreements will become eligible for sale in the public market upon expiration of these lock-up agreements, subject to limitations imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), as amended. A substantial number of shares of our common stock held by our current stockholders are freely tradable. If the holders of these freely tradeable shares were to attempt to sell a substantial amount of their holdings at once, the market price of our common stock could decline. Moreover, the perceived risk of this potential dilution could cause stockholders to attempt to sell their shares and investors to short the stock, a practice in which an investor sells shares that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase shares later at a lower price to cover the sale. As each of these events would cause the number of shares of our common stock being offered for sale to increase, our common stock’s market price would likely further decline. All of these events could combine to make it very difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 22 We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change-of-control. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent our stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Item 