Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect our future operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in forward-looking statements we make about our business. A decline in the travel industry could adversely affect our results of operations. Our results of operations will depend upon factors affecting the travel industry in general. Our enrollments and resulting revenues and earnings are especially sensitive to events that affect domestic and international air travel and the level of hotel reservations. A number of factors, including those mentioned above, a rise in fuel prices or other travel costs, excessive inflation, currency fluctuations within the global market, the strength of the dollar, foreign taxation changes, extreme weather conditions and concerns about passenger safety could result in a temporary or longer-term overall decline in demand for our programs. Also, demand for our products and services may be significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and employment levels in the United States and key international markets. Therefore, the economic downturn or a recession in the United States or these other markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Currently, the United States and other markets are facing these conditions which has impacted the travel industry, the markets in which we operate, our operations and profitability. We expect these conditions will continue to impact our operations and profitability. Business interruption due to adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, international political climate, armed conflicts, terrorist and threats thereof, and other world events or other incidents affecting the health, safety, security and/or program satisfaction of individuals could have an adverse affect on our profitability. Demand for our travel programs may be adversely affected by natural occurrences such as hurricanes, earthquakes, epidemics or other disease outbreaks, and flooding in geographic regions in which we conduct travel programs. The occurrence of any of the events described above or other unforeseen developments in one or more of these regions would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. Our operations are subject to special risks inherent in doing business internationally, as a substantial portion of our travel programs are conducted outside the United States. In the past, gross program receipts from programs to Europe, the South Pacific (Australia and New Zealand) and China have accounted for a majority of our receipts. Risks inherent in doing business internationally include potential adverse effects on operations from war, U.S. military deployments, international and domestic terrorism, civil disturbances, political instability, foreign currency exchange rates, governmental activities and deprivation of contract rights. The continued U.S. military presence as a result of unrest in the Middle East has affected and will continue to affect the travel industry, the markets in which we operate, and our operations and profitability. The potential long-term effects are uncertain for our customers, the market for our Common Stock, the markets for our services, the strength of the U.S. dollar and the U.S. economy. In the past, we have experienced increased cancellations for our travel programs. We have also experienced a weakened U.S. dollar, the negative effect of which will cost us more to travel delegates abroad. Periods of international and domestic unrest have reduced demand for our travel programs and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Examples of such past events include, but are not limited, to the terrorist attacks noted below, war in Iraq in 2003, the Gulf War in 1991, civil unrest in China in 1989, and the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in India on November 26 through 29, 2008, London on July 7 and 21, 2005, and in the United States on September 11, 2001, the continued U.S. military response, and other acts of violence or war have and will affect the travel industry generally, the markets in which we operate, as well as our operations and profitability. Further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses and citizens at home and abroad may occur. -9- The September 11 attacks had a very negative impact on domestic and international air travel and the travel industry in general. As a result, we experienced a significant decrease in profitability in 2002. The potential long-term effects of these attacks are uncertain for our customers, the market for our Common Stock, the markets for our services and the U.S. economy. The consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts including war which may result, are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business or operations. Our financial results are subject to fluctuations due to the seasonality of our business. Our business is highly seasonal. The majority of our travel programs are scheduled in June and July of each year, mildly complemented by the majority of content sales which occur during the school year, primarily September to June. We anticipate that this trend will continue for the foreseeable future. We recognize gross program receipts, revenues and program pass-through expenses upon the departure of our program delegates for the majority of our programs. Substantially all of our operating income is generated in the second and third quarters, which historically has offset the operating losses incurred during the rest of the year. Annual results would be adversely affected if our revenues were to be substantially below seasonal norms during the second and third quarters of the year. Furthermore, our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the mix of student, sports, leadership and professional programs and program destinations offered by us and our competitors, the introduction and acceptance of new programs and program enhancements by us and our competitors, timing of program completions, cancellation rates, competitive conditions in the industry, marketing expenses, extreme weather conditions, international or domestic conflicts, timing of and costs related to acquisitions, changes in relationships with certain travel providers, economic factors and other considerations affecting travel. As a result of the foregoing, annual or quarterly operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our Common Stock could be materially and adversely affected. Competition in the travel and education industries could impact our results of operations. The travel industry in general and the educational segment of the travel industry are highly competitive and have relatively low barriers to entry. We compete with other companies that provide similar educational travel programs for students and athletes, as well as independent programs organized and sponsored by local teachers and coaches with the assistance of local travel agents. People to People, under the terms of its agreement with us, reserves the right to offer programs to college students for studies abroad and to grant to other individuals or entities, the right to use the People to People name in connection with People to People’s professional education and sports programs. In general, our Citizen Ambassador Programs compete with independent professional organizations that sponsor and organize their own travel programs through the assistance of local travel agents, and other organizations that offer travel programs and continuing education credits for adults. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater brand-name recognition and financial resources than we do. In addition to competition we face in the travel industry, we also face significant competition from a wide variety of content and media Web properties with companies throughout the world. Content and advertising on the internet are intensely competitive and have been rapidly evolving with converging technologies. We compete with many larger Web properties that have larger staff and more traffic to offer potential advertisers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully, and the failure to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our inability to use the “People to People” name could significantly impact our success in attracting future travelers. Our agreements with People to People give us the exclusive right to develop and conduct programs for kindergarten through high school students using the People to People name, and the non-exclusive right to develop and conduct programs for professionals, college students and athletes using the People to People name. Our agreements with People to People, however, allow People to People to continue to conduct college and professional seminars and internship programs and to develop other sports and professional programs. Our agreements with People to People expire in 2010 and, at our election, may be further extended through 2020. We believe that we derive benefit from our ability to market our programs -10- using the People to People name. If our agreements with People to People were terminated or if we were unable to use the People to People name to market new programs or destinations, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, if our relationship with People to People is disrupted or is adversely impacted because People to People experiences interruption, delay or ceases operations in the future for any reason, our business could be harmed and our stock price may decline. Our dependence on travel suppliers could delay the delivery of our products and services, which would impact our reputation and could reduce our profitability. We are dependent upon travel suppliers for access to their products and services. Travel suppliers include airlines, hotels, bus lines, overseas coordinators and other participants in the travel industry. Consistent with industry practices, we currently have no long-term agreements with travel suppliers that obligate such suppliers to sell services or products through us on an ongoing basis. Therefore, the travel suppliers generally can cancel or modify their agreements with us upon relatively short notice. In addition, any decline in the quality of travel products and services provided by these suppliers, or a perception by our delegates of such a decline, could adversely affect our reputation. The loss of contracts, changes in our pricing agreements, commission schedules or incentive override commission arrangements, more restricted access to travel suppliers’ products and services or less favorable public opinion of certain travel suppliers, resulting in low demand for the products and services of such travel suppliers and loss of deposits with travel suppliers that could go bankrupt could all have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We depend on our ability to attract and retain our key personnel. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performances of our senior management and certain other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled managerial, marketing and customer service personnel. The failure to retain and attract necessary managerial, marketing and customer service personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We depend on the effectiveness of marketing to obtain individuals to travel on our programs and to use our website. Our performance in our travel programs is substantially dependent on the effectiveness of our direct marketing efforts, including but not limited to, names sources used to identify potential participants for our programs, direct mail and local informational meetings. Failure or underperformance of our marketing efforts or changes in the direct-mail environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Such changes in the direct-mail environment could include, but are not limited to, a threat of disease or bioterrorism within the mail environment and new or different regulatory schemes or changes in costs or services by the United States Postal Service. In addition, the performance of our research segment is dependent on advertising rates. Changes affecting advertising fees and reduced traffic could have an impact on operations. Government regulation and taxation may adversely affect the travel industry and thus increase our operating expenses. Many travel suppliers, particularly airlines, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and foreign governments. In addition, the travel industry is subject to certain seller of travel laws of certain states and special taxes by federal, state, local and foreign governments, including but not limited to hotel bed taxes, car rental taxes, airline excise taxes and airport taxes and fees. New or different regulatory schemes or changes in tax policy could have an adverse impact on the travel industry in general and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. -11- Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our results of operations. Many of our arrangements with our foreign-based suppliers require payment to be made in foreign currencies. Any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to foreign currencies has the effect of increasing the cost of the services to be provided. Since late 1993, we generally have purchased forward contracts and options with less than two years’ maturity to help manage program costs and hedge against foreign currency valuation increases. While the ability to utilize forward contracts for the delivery of foreign currencies can mitigate the effect of increased program costs and foreign currency exchange fluctuations, there can be no assurance that increased program costs relating to such currency fluctuations will not be substantial in future periods. There can also be no assurance our hedging strategy will mitigate longer-term foreign exchange valuation trends. Depending on the strength of the U.S. dollar at the time the forward contracts and options are entered into and its strength throughout the contracted period, we could end up in an over-hedged position, which may result in a gain or loss that must be recognized in our financial statements immediately. Our contract with delegates in our travel programs provides us the option of passing along to delegates any increase in program costs resulting from currency fluctuations. Although we have exercised this option in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase program prices to offset any such cost increases in the future and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Litigation may subject us to significant litigation costs, judgments, fines and penalties in excess of insurance coverage, and divert management attention from our business. Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to liability claims arising out of accidents or disasters causing injury to delegates on our programs, including claims for serious personal injury or death. We believe that we have adequate liability insurance for risks arising in the normal course of business. Although we have experienced no claims for which we did not have adequate insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims or that the applicable insurer will be solvent at the time of any covered loss. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and cost in the future. Successful assertion against us of one or a series of large uninsured claims, or of one or a series of claims exceeding any insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. See “Item 3: Legal Proceedings”, for a description of the claims that have been made against us. If we are unable to successfully manage the growth in our business, our prospects may be limited and our future profitability will be decreased. Our performance is dependent on our ability to grow our business and expand the marketing and volume of our educational travel programs, increase the number of website visitors and unique users, and develop our brands. In addition, our ability to grow is dependent on our ability to acquire or enter into strategic alliances. Failure of growth strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are exposed to concentration of credit risk that could affect our results of operations. Cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities are exposed to concentrations of credit risk. We place our cash and temporary cash investments with high credit quality institutions. At times, such balances may be in excess of the federal depository insurance limit or may be on deposit at institutions which are not covered by this insurance. If such institutions were to become insolvent during which time it held our cash, cash equivalents or available-for-sale securities in excess of the insurance limit, we could suffer losses or it could be necessary to obtain credit financing to operate our travel programs. -12- Our short-term investments primarily consist of municipal bonds and some auction rate securities. The credit markets are currently experiencing significant uncertainty, however our investments are in high-quality, tax-exempt municipal obligations and our auction rate securities are insignificant compared to our total investment portfolio. See Note 6, Fair Value Measurement of Financial Assets and Liabilities, in our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a competitive advantage or incur substantial litigation costs to protect our rights. Substantially all of our publications are protected by copyright, held either in our name, in the name of the author of the work, or in the name of the sponsoring professional society. Such copyrights protect our exclusive right to publish the work in the United States and in many countries abroad for specified periods. Our ability to obtain and continue to obtain access to existing and new content, as well as our ability to continue to achieve expected results depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our results may be adversely affected by lack of legal or technological protections for our intellectual property in some jurisdictions and markets that we operate in. We depend on our ability to successfully integrate key acquisitions. One of our growth strategies is to acquire businesses that complement our existing businesses. Target acquisitions may have an impact on costs, revenues, cash flows, and our financial position, such as the recent acquisition of BookRags, on May 15, 2008. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in integrating acquired operations and in realizing expected opportunities, diversions of management resources and loss of key employees, challenges with respect to operating new businesses, and other unanticipated risks and liabilities. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which may cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our Common Stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Some of the factors that could affect our stock price include: • Quarterly variations in operating results; • Changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • Speculation in the press or investment community; • Strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • Actions by institutional shareholders; • General market conditions; • Change in key employees; • Domestic or international social and economic factors unrelated to our performance; • Terrorist activities, and • Limited shares of Common Stock available for trading The stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock. In particular, we cannot make assurances that our stock will sell at any particular price, or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -13- 