ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are in a difficult economic period, and the uncertainty in the economy may reduce customer demand for our products, cause potential customers to delay their purchase decisions and make it more difficult for some potential customers to obtain credit financing, all of which would adversely affect our business and may increase the volatility of our stock price. Current economic conditions are unstable and we are in a global recession. The general economic difficulties being experienced by our customers and the lack of availability of consumer credit for some of our customers are adversely affecting the market in which we operate. In times of economic uncertainty or recession, individuals often reduce the amount of money that they spend on discretionary items, including aesthetic procedures. This economic uncertainty may cause potential customers to delay their capital equipment purchase decisions, and may make it more difficult for some potential customers to obtain credit financing necessary to purchase our products or make timely payments to us, each of which can have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and business and may increase the volatility of our stock price. We rely heavily on our sales professionals to market and sell our products worldwide. If we are unable to effectively train, retain and manage these employees, our ability to manage our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability. Our success largely depends on our ability to manage and improve the productivity levels of our sales professionals worldwide. Measures we implement in an effort to improve that productivity may not be successful. For example, in January 2009 we had a company-wide reduction of employees, including members of our direct sales force. Further, we restructured our sales commission program, and assigned some sales employees with new sales or management responsibilities. These measures may not improve productivity and may lead to reduced revenue and employee turnover, which could materially harm our business. If we experience significant levels of attrition or reductions in productivity among our sales professionals or our sales managers, our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected as a result. The initiatives that we are implementing in an effort to improve revenue and profitability could be unsuccessful, which could harm our business. In 2008, compared to 2007, our revenue decreased 18%, U.S. sales decreased 35% and international sales increased 11%. In an effort to improve our revenue and profitability, we have implemented several strategic 19 Table of Contents initiatives focusing on our worldwide sales and marketing infrastructure, product introductions and expense management. For example, in January 2009, we had a company-wide reduction in force of approximately 10% and we also reduced or eliminated certain employee benefit programs in an effort to manage expenses in line with expected revenue levels. These initiatives are intended to improve our revenue and profitability; however, they may instead result in employee turnover, instability to our operations and cause harm to our business. A lack of customer demand for our products in any of our markets would harm our revenue. Most of our products are marketed to established dermatology and plastic surgeon medical offices, as well as the non-core businesses, such as family practitioners, primary care physicians, gynecologists, and non-medical models. Our most recent product introductions, Pearl and Pearl Fractional, are targeted at dermatologists and plastic surgeons. Continuing to achieve and maintain penetration into each of our markets is a material assumption of our business strategy. Demand for our products in any of our markets could be weakened by several factors, including: • The duration of the current worldwide recession; • Current lack of credit financing for some of our potential customers; • Poor financial performance of market segments that try introducing aesthetic procedures to their businesses; • The inability to differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • Reduced patient demand for elective aesthetic procedures; • Failure to build and maintain relationships with opinion leaders within the various market segments; and • An increase in malpractice lawsuits. If we do not achieve anticipated demand for our products in each of our market segments, our revenue may be adversely impacted. To successfully market and sell our products internationally, we must address many issues that are unique to our international business. Our international revenue was $41.7 million in 2008, which represented 50% of our total revenue. International revenue is a material component of our business strategy. We depend on third-party distributors and a direct sales force to sell our products internationally, and if they underperform we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of international revenue. To grow our business, we will need to improve productivity in current sales territories and expand into new territories. However, direct sales productivity may not improve and distributors may not accept our business or commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. As a result, we may not be able to increase or maintain international revenue growth. We believe that an increasing amount of our future revenue will come from international sales as we expand our overseas operations and develop opportunities in additional international territories. International sales are subject to a number of risks, including: • Difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign operations; • Export restrictions, trade regulations and foreign tax laws; • Fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates; • Foreign certification and regulatory requirements; 20 Table of Contents • Lengthy payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • Customs clearance and shipping delays; • Political and economic instability; • Lack of awareness of our brand in international markets; • Preference for locally-produced products; and • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. If one or more of these risks were realized, it could require us to dedicate significant resources to remedy the situation; and if we were unsuccessful at finding a solution, we may not be able to sell our products in a particular market and, as a result, our revenue may decline. We compete against companies that have longer operating histories, newer and different products, and greater resources, each of which may result in a competitive disadvantage to us and harm our business. Our industry is subject to intense competition. Our products compete against similar products offered by public companies, such as Candela, Cynosure, Elen (in Italy), Iridex, Palomar, Solta, and Syneron and as well as private companies such as Aesthera, Alma, Lumenis, Sciton and several other companies. We are likely to compete with new companies in the future. Competition with these companies could result in reduced selling prices, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face competition from medical products, such as Botox, an injectable compound used to reduce wrinkles, and collagen injections. Other alternatives to the use of our products include sclerotherapy, a procedure involving the injection of a solution into the vein to collapse it, electrolysis, a procedure involving the application of electric current to eliminate hair follicles, and chemical peels. We may also face competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other products that have not yet been developed. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to distinguish our company and our products from our competitors and their products, and includes such factors as: • Success and timing of new product development and introductions; • Product performance; • Product pricing; • Quality of customer support; • Development of successful distribution channels, both domestically and internationally; and • Intellectual property protection. Some of our competitors have newer or different products and more established customer relationships than we do, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. For example, we have encountered, and expect to continue to encounter, situations where, due to pre-existing relationships, potential customers decided to purchase additional products from our competitors. Potential customers also may need to recoup the cost of products that they have already purchased from our competitors and may decide not to purchase our products, or to delay such purchases. If we are unable to achieve continued market penetration, we will be unable to compete effectively and our business will be harmed. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, research and development, business development, manufacturing, and sales and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors could utilize their greater financial resources to acquire other companies to gain enhanced name recognition and market share, as well as new technologies or products that could effectively compete with our existing product lines. For example, Thermage acquired Reliant in December 2008 and thereby formed Solta. To compete effectively, we 21 Table of Contents have to demonstrate that our products are attractive alternatives to other devices and treatments by differentiating our products on the basis of such factors as performance, brand name, service and price, and this is difficult to do in a crowded market. Our competitors could form strategic alliances with other companies to develop products and solutions that effectively compete with our products. For example, Palomar and Syneron have each entered into agreements with Proctor and Gamble for the proposed development of home-use aesthetic devices. Business combinations and alliances by our competitors could increase competition, which could harm our business. The aesthetic equipment market is characterized by rapid innovation. To compete effectively, we must develop and acquire new products, market them successfully, and identify new markets for our technology. We have created products to apply our technology to hair removal, treatment of veins and skin rejuvenation, including the treating of diffuse redness, skin laxity, fine lines, wrinkles, skin texture, pore size and pigmented lesions. Currently, these applications represent the majority of offered laser and other energy-based aesthetic procedures. To grow in the future, we must develop and acquire new and innovative aesthetic applications, identify new markets for our existing technologies, and develop and acquire new technologies for various platforms. To successfully expand our product offerings, we must, among other things: • Develop and acquire new products that either add to or significantly improve our current products; • Convince our customers and prospects that our new products or upgrades would be an attractive revenue-generating addition to their practices; • Sell our products to a broad customer base; • Identify new markets and alternative applications for our technology; • Protect our existing and future products with defensible intellectual property; and • Satisfy and maintain all regulatory requirements for commercialization. Every year since 2000, we have introduced at least one new product. Historically, these introductions have generally been a significant component of our financial performance. Our business strategy is based, in part, on our expectation that we will continue to make regular product introductions that we can sell to new customers as systems and to existing customers as upgrades to their existing systems. Even with a significant investment in research and development, we may be unable to continue to develop, acquire or effectively launch and market new products and technologies regularly, or at all, which could adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors release new products more often and more successfully than we do. For example, in the second half of 2008, revenue from sales of our new Pearl Fractional product to new and existing customers did not meet our expectations. We believe that, to increase revenue from sales of new products and related upgrades, we need to continue to develop our clinical support, further expand and nurture relationships with industry thought leaders and increase market awareness of the benefits of our new products. If we fail to successfully commercialize any of our new products, our business could be harmed. While we attempt to protect our products through patents and other intellectual property, there are few barriers to entry that would prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products that compete directly with ours. For example, while our CoolGlide product was the first long-pulse Nd:YAG, or long wavelength, laser system cleared by the FDA for permanent hair reduction on all skin types, competitors have subsequently introduced systems that utilize Nd:YAG lasers, and received FDA clearances to market these products as treating all skin types. We expect that any competitive advantage we may enjoy from other current and future innovations, such as combining multiple hand pieces in a single system to perform a variety of applications, may diminish over time, as companies successfully respond to our, or create their own, innovations. Consequently, we believe that we will have to continuously innovate and improve our products and technology to compete successfully. If we are unable to innovate successfully, our products could become obsolete and our revenue could decline as our customers and prospects purchase our competitors’ products. 22 Table of Contents If there is not sufficient consumer demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner demand for our products could be inhibited, resulting in unfavorable operating results and reduced growth potential. Continued expansion of the global market for laser and other energy-based aesthetic procedures is a material assumption of our business strategy. Most procedures performed using our products are elective procedures not reimbursable through government or private health insurance, with the costs borne by the patient. The decision to utilize our products may therefore be influenced by a number of factors, including: • Consumer disposable income, which may be impacted by political and economic conditions, such as concerns over the recession, high unemployment rates and the housing and credit market crisis; • The cost of procedures performed using our products; • The cost, safety and effectiveness of alternative treatments, including treatments which are not based upon laser or other energy-based technologies and treatments which use pharmaceutical products; • The success of our sales and marketing efforts; and • The education of our customers and patients on the benefits and uses of our products, compared to competitors’ products and technologies. If, as a result of these factors, there is not sufficient demand for the procedures performed with our products, practitioner demand for our products could be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, revenue and result of operations. If PSS World Medical fails to perform to our expectations, we may fail to achieve anticipated operating results. We have a distribution agreement with PSS World Medical. PSS sales professionals work in coordination with our sales force to locate new customers for our products throughout the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 14% of our revenue came from PSS. Although we have dedicated sales professionals to work closely with, and increase the focus and attention on, our PSS relationship, there is no assurance that the focus on PSS will translate into increased revenue for us. Further, if PSS does not perform adequately under the arrangement, or terminates our relationship, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain these employees, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenue and profitability. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees. Except for Change of Control and Severance Agreements for our executive officers, we do not have employment contracts with any of our officers or other key employees. Any of our officers and other key employees may terminate their employment at any time. We do not have a succession plan in place for each of our officers and key employees. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our senior management team members could weaken our management expertise and harm our business. Our ability to retain our skilled labor force and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees are critical factors in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain existing personnel. We may face particularly significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing and retaining engineering and sales and marketing employees. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly technical and sales and marketing personnel, would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. 23 Table of Contents We may incur substantial expenses if our practices are shown to have violated the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, and defending ourselves against the related litigation could distract management and harm our business. A class action lawsuit was filed against us in January 2008 alleging violations under the federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act and related Illinois state laws. Although we retain general liability insurance, one carrier has denied coverage, and the other has agreed to defend us subject to a reservation of rights. There can be no guarantee that any such insurance will cover the claims that are made, or will insure us for losses on covered claims. We have not recorded a liability related to this lawsuit. However, we may determine in the future that an accrual is required, and we may be required to pay damages in respect of this lawsuit, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Regardless of the outcome, this lawsuit may cause us to incur significant expenses, consume resources and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Each of these factors could harm our business. Two securities class action lawsuits were filed against us in April and May 2007, respectively, based upon the decreases in our stock price following the announcement of our preliminary first quarter 2007 revenue and earnings, and the announcement of our revised 2007 guidance. Defending ourselves against this litigation could distract management and harm our business. Two class action lawsuits were filed against us following declines in our stock price in the spring of 2007. On November 1, 2007, the court ordered the two cases consolidated. These consolidated cases have been on appeal since November 2008 after our motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ complaint was granted. Although we retain director and officer liability insurance, there can be no guarantee that such insurance will cover the claims that are made or will insure us fully for all losses on covered claims. This litigation may distract our management and consume resources that would otherwise have been directed toward operating our business. Each of these factors could harm our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments, specifically auction rate securities (ARS), and interest rates. Due to failed auctions of our auction rate investments since February 2008, we are unable to readily liquidate our ARS into cash, and in 2008, we took impairment charges. If these auctions continue to fail, we may have to take additional impairment charges, which could reduce future earnings, harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. We invest our excess cash primarily in money market funds and in highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies, U.S. municipalities (including ARS), and in bonds of high-quality corporate issuers. As of December 31, 2008, our balance in marketable securities was $70.3 million. The longer the duration of a security, the more susceptible it is to changes in market interest rates and bond yields. As yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss. For example, assuming a hypothetical increase in interest rates of one percentage point, the fair value of our total investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008 would have potentially decreased by approximately $858,000, resulting in an unrealized loss that would subsequently adversely impact our earnings. As a result, changes in the market interest rates will affect our future net income (loss). Our marketable securities included $9.9 million of ARS, of which $9.6 are classified under the caption of ‘Long-term investments’ in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These ARS are designed to provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, generally every 35 days—though auctions for some of the securities are held every 360 days. However, since February 2008, auctions for each of our investments in ARS have failed due to the current overall credit concerns in capital markets. Upon an auction failure, the interest rates do not reset at a market rate but instead reset based on a formula contained in the security, which rate is generally higher than the current market rate. The failure of the 24 Table of Contents auctions impacts our ability to readily liquidate our ARS into cash until a future auction of these investments is successful, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the ARS is refinanced by the issuer into another type of debt instrument. In 2008, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges of $3.6 million relating to our ARS investments. If in the future we are unable to liquidate our investments in ARS, or there are further other-than-temporary impairments in their market value, we may have to take additional charges, which could reduce our future earnings, harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. We have a limited number of shares of common stock outstanding, a large portion of which is held by a small number of investors, which could result in the increase in volatility of our stock price. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 63% of our outstanding shares of common stock were held by 10 institutional investors. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. In 2008, the global equities market declined sharply and our industry was adversely affected. The public market price of our common stock has in the past fluctuated substantially and, due to the current concentration of stockholders and the continuing global recession, may continue to do so in the future. The market price for our common stock could also be affected by a number of other factors, including: • The duration of the current global economic recession, and other general market conditions unrelated to our operating performance; • Sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and our large institutional investors; • Quarterly variations in our, or our competitors’, results of operations; • Changes in analysts’ estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ estimates; • The announcement of new products or service enhancements by us or our competitors; • The announcement of the departure of a key employee or executive officer; • Regulatory developments or delays concerning our, or our competitors’ products; and • The initiation of litigation by us or against us. Actual or perceived instability in our stock price could reduce demand from potential buyers of our stock, thereby causing our stock price to decline. We may be involved in future costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact our future business and financial performance. Our competitors or other patent holders may assert that our present or future products and the methods we employ are covered by their patents. In addition, we do not know whether our competitors own or will obtain patents that they may claim prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use, sell or import our products. Although we may seek to resolve any potential future claims or actions, we may not be able to do so on reasonable terms, or at all. If, following a successful third-party action for infringement, we cannot obtain a license or redesign our products, we may have to stop manufacturing and selling the applicable products and our business would suffer as a result. In addition, a court could require us to pay substantial damages, and prohibit us from using technologies essential to our products, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We may become involved in litigation not only as a result of alleged infringement of a third party’s intellectual property rights but also to protect our own intellectual property. For example, we have been, and may hereafter become, involved in litigation to protect the trademark rights associated with our company name or the names of our products. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and could divert management’s attention from our core business. Intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection for some or all of our products, which may permit third parties to compete against us more effectively. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and products. At December 31, 2008, we had eleven issued U.S. patents. Some of our components, such as our laser module, electronic control system and high-voltage electronics, are not, and in the future may not be, protected by patents. Additionally, our patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we obtain may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third parties. Consequently, competitors could market products and use manufacturing processes that are substantially similar to, or superior to, ours. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees or current employees, despite the existence generally of confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions. Monitoring unauthorized uses and disclosures of our intellectual property is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be effective. Moreover, the laws of many foreign countries will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The absence of complete intellectual property protection exposes us to a greater risk of direct competition. Competitors could purchase one of our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, design around our protected technology, or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position and our business could be adversely affected. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances for our products and indications, if clearances for future products and indications are delayed or not issued, if there are federal or state level regulatory changes or if we are found to have violated applicable FDA marketing rules, our commercial operations would be harmed. Our products are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA for manufacturing, labeling, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or labeling claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-marketing approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. In the event that we do not obtain FDA clearances or approvals for our products, our ability to market and sell them in the United States and revenue derived there from may be adversely affected. Medical devices may be marketed in the United States only for the indications for which they are approved or cleared by the FDA. For example, we have FDA clearance to market our Titan product in the United States only for deep dermal heating, and are therefore prevented from promoting or advertising Titan in the United States for any other indications. If we fail to comply with these regulations, it could result in enforcement action by the FDA which could lead to such consequences as warning letters, adverse publicity, criminal enforcement action and/or third-party civil litigation, each of which could adversely affect us. We have obtained 510(k) clearance for the indications for which we market our products. However, our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. We also are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or 26 Table of Contents serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Our products are also subject to state regulations, which are, in many instances, in flux. Changes in state regulations may impede sales. For example, federal regulations allow our products to be sold to, or on the order of, “licensed practitioners,” as determined on a state-by-state basis. As a result, in some states, non-physicians may legally purchase our products. However, a state could change its regulations at any time, thereby disallowing sales to particular types of end users. We cannot predict the impact or effect of future legislation or regulations at the federal or state levels. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: • Warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • Repair, replacement, recall or seizure of our products; • Operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • Refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; • Withdrawing 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals that have already been granted; and • Criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business. If we fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation and laser performance standards, our manufacturing operations could be halted, and our business would suffer. We are currently required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. Because our products involve the use of lasers, our products also are covered by a performance standard for lasers set forth in FDA regulations. The laser performance standard imposes specific record-keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements. These requirements include affixing warning labels to laser products, as well as incorporating certain safety features in the design of laser products. The FDA enforces the QSR and laser performance standards through periodic unannounced inspections. Our failure to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection or our failure to comply with applicable laser performance standards could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties, or other sanctions, such as those described in the preceding paragraph, which would cause our sales and business to suffer. If we modify one of our FDA-approved devices, we may need to seek re-approval, which, if not granted, would prevent us from selling our modified products or cause us to redesign our products. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a pre-market approval. We may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, our existing products in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearance would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our revenue and future profitability. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearance or approvals. If the FDA disagrees, and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could harm our operating results and require us to redesign our products. 27 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain or maintain international regulatory qualifications or approvals for our current or future products and indications, which could harm our business. Sales of our products outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. In addition, exports of medical devices from the United States are regulated by the FDA. Complying with international regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time-consuming process and approval is not certain. The time required to obtain clearance or approvals, if required by other countries, may be longer than that required for FDA clearance or approvals, and requirements for such clearances or approvals may significantly differ from FDA requirements. We may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory qualifications, clearances or approvals in other countries. We may also incur significant costs in attempting to obtain and in maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or qualifications. If we experience delays in receiving necessary qualifications, clearances or approvals to market our products outside the United States, or if we fail to receive those qualifications, clearances or approvals, we may be unable to market our products or enhancements in international markets effectively, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and growth strategy. Any acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We expect to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies. We may also consider joint ventures and other collaborative projects. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate any businesses, products or technologies that we acquire. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition and management of any collaborative project may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations and we may incur significant legal, accounting and banking fees in connection with such a transaction. In addition, if we purchase a company that is not profitable, our cash balances may be reduced or depleted. We do not have any experience as a team with acquiring companies or products. If we decide to expand our product offerings beyond laser and other energy-based products, we may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenue. Any cash acquisition we pursue would diminish our available cash balances to us for other uses, and any stock acquisition could be dilutive to our stockholders. While we from time to time evaluate potential collaborative projects and acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions or collaborative projects. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and therefore our financial condition. Some of our customers and prospective customers have had difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operation and use of our products. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain states or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using our products and potential customers may opt against purchasing laser and other energy based products due to the cost or inability to procure insurance coverage. The unavailability of insurance coverage for our customers and prospects could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, and that could harm our financial condition. Because we do not require training for users of our products, and sell our products at times to non-physicians, there exists an increased potential for misuse of our products, which could harm our reputation and our business. Federal regulations allow us to sell our products to or on the order of “licensed practitioners.” The definition of “licensed practitioners” varies from state to state. As a result, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training, and in many states, by non-physicians, including nurse practitioners, 28 Table of Contents chiropractors and technicians. Outside the United States, many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, nor do we require that direct medical supervision occur. We and our distributors generally offer but do not require product training to the purchasers or operators of our products. In addition, we sometimes sell our systems to companies that rent our systems to third parties and that provide a technician to perform the procedures. The lack of training and the purchase and use of our products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and our business, and, in the event these result in product liability litigation, distract management and subject us to liability, including legal expenses. Product liability suits could be brought against us due to a defective design, material or workmanship or misuse of our products and could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Misusing our products or failing to adhere to operating guidelines could cause significant eye and skin damage, and underlying tissue damage. In addition, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. We have been involved, and may in the future be involved, in litigation related to the use of our products. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. We may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all future claims. We may not be able to obtain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry and could reduce product sales. In addition, we have been experiencing steep increases in our product liability insurance premiums. If our premiums continue to rise, we may no longer be able to afford adequate insurance coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, or we have product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage, claims would be paid out of cash reserves, thereby harming our financial condition, operating results and profitability. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Many of the components and materials that comprise our products are currently manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond our current suppliers’ capabilities could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified and qualified. Our reliance on these suppliers subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business, including: • Interruption of supply resulting from modifications to or discontinuation of a supplier’s operations; • Delays in product shipments resulting from uncorrected defects, reliability issues or a supplier’s variation in a component; • A lack of long term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; • Inability to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner, or on reasonable terms; • Difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our components in a timely manner; • Production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; and, • Delay in supplier deliveries. 29 Table of Contents Any interruption in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Any defects in the design, material or workmanship of our products may not be discovered prior to shipment to customers, which could result in warranty obligations that may reduce our future revenue and increase our cost. The design of our products is complex. To manufacture them successfully, we must procure quality components and employ individuals with a significant degree of technical expertise. If our designs are defective, if suppliers fail to deliver components to specification, or if our employees fail to properly assemble, test and package our products, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. If our products contain defects that cannot be repaired easily and inexpensively, we may experience: • Loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment; • Damage to our brand reputation; • Increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement; • Inability to attract new customers; • Diversion of resources from our manufacturing and research and development departments into our service department; and • Legal action. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could materially harm our business. We forecast sales to determine requirements for components and materials used in our products and if our forecasts are incorrect, we may experience either delays in shipments or increased inventory costs. We keep limited materials and components on hand. To manage our manufacturing operations with our suppliers, we forecast anticipated product orders and material requirements to predict our inventory needs up to twelve months in advance and enter into purchase orders on the basis of these requirements. Our experience of materials usage may not provide us with enough data to accurately predict future demand. If our sales demand decreases significantly, or if we overestimate our component and material requirements, we will have excess inventories, which would increase our expenses. If our business expands, or if we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventories, which could interrupt, delay or prevent delivery of our products to our customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively affect our financial performance and the level of satisfaction our customers have with our business. Our gross and operating margins may vary over time. Our gross and operating margins may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including decreases in our shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of, our inventory, shifts in our product mix and increased expenses associated with repairing defective products covered by our warranty program. In addition, the competitive market environment in which we operate may adversely affect pricing for our products. Because we own most of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed. If we experience a decrease in shipment volume, or have to reduce our pricing to remain competitive, or experience a greater than expected failure rate for any of our products, our gross and operating margins will be adversely impacted. We offer payment terms for qualified customers, In the event that there is a default by any of these customers, this could affect our earnings and could result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. While we qualify customers to whom we offer payment terms, we cannot assure that the financial positions of these customers will not change adversely before we receive payment. In the event that there is a default by any of our customers to whom we have provided payment terms, this could affect our earnings and could result in an increase in our days sales outstanding. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. We do not actively hedge our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. While we transact business primarily in U.S. Dollars, and a significant proportion of our revenue is denominated in U.S. Dollars, a portion of our costs and revenue is denominated in other currencies, such as the Euro, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar and British Pound Sterling. As a result, changes in the exchange rates of these currencies to the U.S. Dollar will affect our net income (loss). As a result of recent fluctuations in currency markets and the strong dollar relative to many other major currencies, our products priced in U.S. dollars may be more expensive relative to products of our foreign competitors, which could result in lower sales. In addition, the non-dollar denominated earnings of our foreign operations may be lower when reported by us in dollars. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities which could negatively impact our income tax provision, net income, and cash flow. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, and cash flows in the period in which such determination is made. Anti-takeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover, and might make it more difficult for an investor to acquire a substantial block of our common stock. These provisions include: • A classified board of directors; • Advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; • A supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws; • Limitations on stockholder actions by written consent; and • The right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. These provisions, as well as Change of Control and Severance Agreements entered into with each of our executive officers, might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 