D. Risk Factors” and the following: • our ability to refinance our outstanding indebtedness and increase our use of hybrid capital; • uncertainties of assumptions used in our reserving process; • risk associated with implementing our business strategies and our capital improvement measures; • cyclical nature of the reinsurance industry; 3 Table of Contents • the occurrence of natural and man-made catastrophic events with a frequency or severity exceeding our estimates; • acts of terrorism and acts of war; • changes in economic conditions, including interest and currency rate conditions that could affect our investment portfolio; • actions of competitors, including industry consolidation and development of competing financial products; • a decrease in the level of demand for our reinsurance or increased competition in our industries or markets; • our ability to expand into emerging markets; • our ability to enter into strategic investment partnerships; • a loss of our key employees or executive officers without suitable replacements being recruited within a suitable period of time; • political risks in the countries in which we operate or in which we reinsure risks; • the passage of additional legislation or the promulgation of new regulation in a jurisdiction in which we or our clients operate or where our subsidiaries are organized; • the effect on us and the insurance industry as a result of the investigations being carried out by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and New York’s Attorney and other governmental authorities; • timing and outcome of class action lawsuits; • our ability to regain past customers following the rating upgrade; • our ability to retain employees and certain business we write prior to and following the consummation of the SCOR Tender Offer (as defined below); • our ability to successfully integrate our business with that of SCOR’s following the consummation of the SCOR Tender Offer and retain joint ventures in which we are a party; • the resolution of the investigations being carried out by the SEC, New York’s Attorney General and other governmental authorities; • changes in our investment results due to the changed composition of our invested assets or changes in our investment policy; • failure of our retrocessional reinsurers to honor their obligations or changes in the credit worthiness of our reinsurers; • our failure to prevail in any current or future arbitration or litigation; and • extraordinary events affecting our clients, such as bankruptcies and liquidations. The factors listed above should not be construed as exhaustive. We cannot assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly release any future revisions we may make to forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. We have made it a policy not to provide any quarterly or annual earnings guidance and we will not update any past outlook for full year earnings. We will, however, provide investors with a perspective on our value drivers, our strategic initiatives and those factors critical to understanding our business and operating environment. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISERS Not applicable. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not applicable. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION A. SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA We have prepared our financial statements included in this annual report in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”). The following financial data highlights selected information that is derived from our financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002. The selected financial and other data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes and with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Converium currently manages its business around three operating segments: Standard Property & Casualty Reinsurance, Specialty Lines and Life & Health Reinsurance, which are based principally on global lines of business. In addition to the three segments’ financial results, the Corporate Center carries certain administration expenses, such as costs of the Board of Directors, the Global Executive Committee and other corporate functions as well as expenses not allocated to the operating segments. In addition to reporting segment results individually, management also aggregates results for Standard Property & Casualty Reinsurance and Specialty Lines into non-life business, as management considers this aggregation meaningful in understanding the performance of Converium. In 2004, Converium’s North American operations were placed into orderly run-off and reported as the Run-Off segment to monitor this business on a stand-alone basis. On December 13, 2006, Converium sold its North American operations to National Indemnity Company, a Berkshire Hathaway company, for total consideration of USD 295.0 million comprising of USD 95.0 million in cash and USD 200.0 million in assumption of debt. Converium has not provided any guarantee or indemnity in respect of the reserves of the North American operations. The transaction was approved by the Insurance Department of the State of Connecticut. Our North American operations were previously reported as the principal component of a separate segment, the Run-Off segment. Converium’s financial results of the North American business, including prior period amounts, have been reclassified to discontinued operations. For further details regarding the sale of the North American operations, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Restated(1) For the year ended December 31, USD millions (except per share data) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Restated(1) Income statement data: Revenues: Gross premiums written 1,980.9 1,955.0 3,492.2 3,044.4 2,294.7 Less ceded premiums written -128.9 -171.9 -236.3 -371.0 -128.1 Net premiums written 1,852.0 1,783.1 3,255.9 2,673.4 2,166.6 Net change in unearned premiums -40.3 471.7 -157.4 -89.3 -112.7 Net premiums earned 1,811.7 2,254.8 3,098.5 2,584.1 2,053.9 Net investment income 260.4 257.8 227.5 155.6 128.8 Net realized capital gains (losses) 18.9 31.3 31.2 -3.1 -34.2 Total revenues from continuing operations 2,091.0 2,543.9 3,357.2 2,736.6 2,148.5 Benefits, losses and expenses: Losses, loss expenses and life benefits -1,187.8 -1,720.1 -2,395.0 -1,831.8 -1,581.2 Total costs and expenses -647.9 -740.0 -931.1 -672.2 -518.9 Amortization of intangible assets — -21.5 -9.9 -1.8 — Restructuring costs 0.2 -12.1 -0.2 — — Total benefits, losses and expenses -1,835.5 -2,493.7 -3,336.2 -2,505.8 -2,100.1 5 Table of Contents Restated(1) For the year ended December 31, USD millions (except per share data) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Restated(1) Income from continuing operations before taxes 255.5 50.2 21.0 230.8 48.4 Income tax (expense) benefit -40.5 -16.1 4.6 -16.3 -18.1 Income from continuing operations 215.0 34.1 25.6 214.5 30.3 (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax -157.9 34.6 -608.1 -36.6 64.1 Net income (loss) 57.1 68.7 -582.5 177.9 94.4 Earnings (loss) per share(2): Average number of shares (millions) 146.2 146.4 63.4 39.8 39.9 Basic earnings (loss) per share: from continuing operations 1.47 0.23 0.40 2.71 0.38 from discontinued operations -1.08 0.24 -9.59 -0.47 0.81 Total basic earnings (loss) per share 0.39 0.47 -9.19 2.24 1.19 Diluted earnings (loss) per share: from continuing operations 1.45 0.23 0.40 2.69 0.38 from discontinued operations -1.07 0.23 -9.49 -0.46 0.80 Total diluted earnings (loss) per share 0.38 0.46 -9.09 2.23 1.18 Balance sheet data: Total invested assets 5,765.3 6,634.3 7,786.2 7,502.0 6,117.3 Total assets 10,523.0 11,825.9 14,187.3 13,126.9 10,675.0 Reinsurance liabilities 7,036.9 8,200.8 9,898.9 8,428.6 6,986.7 Debt 194.1 391.2 391.1 393.1 392.9 Total liabilities 8,677.0 10,172.5 12,452.5 11,198.9 9,079.8 Total shareholders’ equity 1,846.0 1,653.4 1,734.8 1,928.0 1,595.2 Book value per share 12.63 11.29 11.86 48.47 39.97 Other data: Net premiums written by segment: Standard Property & Casualty Reinsurance 816.9 739.0 1,377.4 1,299.9 974.2 Specialty Lines 729.4 737.7 1,565.3 1,119.0 962.4 Life & Health Reinsurance 305.7 306.4 313.2 254.5 230.0 Total net premiums written 1,852.0 1,783.1 3,255.9 2,673.4 2,166.6 Non-life combined ratio 96.3 % 107.0 % 105.7 % 91.7 % 100.6 % Ratio of earnings of continuing operations to fixed charges (3) 13.6 3.4 1.9 12.4 11.3 (1) The figures for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 have been restated as set out in the Company’s 2004 Form 20-F/A filed with the SEC on February 28, 2006 and as discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements (see page F-11), which decreased 2002 “Losses, Loss expenses and Life benefits” by USD 58.6 million resulting in an increase in net income. (2) For the periods 2002 and 2003, the earnings per share have been restated to reflect the Rights Offering that occurred in October 2004. (3) The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is calculated by dividing income (loss) before taxes plus fixed charges by fixed charges. Fixed charges consist of interest expense and the interest portion of rental expense. 6 Table of Contents The table below shows the components that comprise the non-life ratios, which are non-GAAP measures. As discussed above, management aggregates the results for the Standard Property & Casualty Reinsurance and Specialty Lines segments into non-life business, as they consider this aggregation a key indicator in understanding the performance of Converium. Other Net Net Losses operating and Loss Acquisition Administration premiums premiums and loss Acquisition administration ratio costs ratio expense ratio Combined Combined Ratio written earned expenses costs expenses (1) (2) (3) ratio (4) Analysis (USD millions) (%) 2006 Standard Property & Casualty Reinsurance 816.9 775.6 -441.1 -195.6 -43.9 56.9 25.2 5.4 87.5 Specialty lines 729.4 723.7 -534.3 -192.4 -38.6 73.8 26.6 5.3 105.7 Total Non-life consolidated 1,546.3 1,499.3 -975.4 -388.0 -82.5 65.1 25.9 5.3 96.3 2005 Standard Property & Casualty Reinsurance 739.0 880.8 -729.6 -181.3 -43.9 82.8 20.6 5.9 109.3 Specialty lines 737.7 1,059.2 -772.5 -263.8 -54.5 72.9 24.9 7.4 105.2 Total Non-life consolidated 1,476.7 1,940.0 -1,502.1 -445.1 -98.4 77.4 22.9 6.7 107.0 2004 Standard Property & Casualty Reinsurance 1,377.4 1,392.2 -1,003.0 -353.3 -52.0 72.0 25.4 3.8 101.2 Specialty lines 1,565.3 1,387.6 -1,154.7 -328.1 -53.3 83.2 23.6 3.4 110.2 Total Non-life consolidated 2,942.7 2,779.8 -2,157.7 -681.4 -105.3 77.6 24.5 3.6 105.7 2003 Standard Property & Casualty Reinsurance 1,299.9 1,285.2 -838.8 -266.4 -48.0 65.3 20.7 3.7 89.7 Specialty lines 1,119.0 1,038.1 -713.0 -228.0 -39.6 68.7 22.0 3.5 94.2 Total Non-life consolidated 2,418.9 2,323.3 -1,551.8 -494.4 -87.6 66.8 21.3 3.6 91.7 2002 Standard Property & Casualty Reinsurance 974.2 942.1 -668.4 -234.2 -38.5 70.9 24.9 4.0 99.8 Specialty lines 962.4 885.5 -709.6 -157.4 -34.3 80.1 17.8 3.6 101.5 Total Non-life consolidated 1,936.6 1,827.6 -1,378.0 -391.6 -72.8 75.4 21.4 3.8 100.6 (1) Losses divided by net premiums earned (2) Acquisition costs divided by net premiums earned (3) Other operating and administration expenses divided by net premiums written (4) Sum of the loss, acquisition costs and administration expense ratios Dividends For a discussion of our dividend policy, see “Item 8. — Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Dividends and Dividend Policy”. B. CAPITALIZATION AND INDEBTEDNESS Not applicable. C. REASONS FOR THE OFFER AND USE OF PROCEEDS Not applicable. 7 Table of Contents D. RISK FACTORS Risks relating to Converium and the reinsurance industry If we do not successfully implement our strategy or if such strategy is not effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows As a multi-line reinsurer Converium pursues a strategy of profitable organic growth with a geographic emphasis on Europe, Asia-Pacific, Central and South America, and the Middle East. Reflecting its significant capabilities in this particular area, the Company places a distinct focus on global specialty lines. Converium implements its strategy by: – Making investments in specialty lines: Based on the Company’s track record and human capital Converium is committed to further expanding its specialty portfolio, including Aviation & Space, Engineering, Marine & Energy, Credit & Surety and Agribusiness. – Maintaining and developing multiple distribution channels, including joint ventures: To leverage Converium’s proven skills at identifying and managing joint ventures and distribution channels which provide direct access to business, the Company will continue to seek opportunities in this field. This offers growth opportunities beyond organic business development and outright acquisitions. – Broadening the client base: In addition to expanding relationships with existing clients Converium seeks to establish new relationships in the Company’s preferred geographical markets and lines of business. – Expanding the knowledge base: Converium believes in the value of a knowledge-based business model, offering clients insight and services beyond pure underwriting capacity. To this end, the Company will continue to boost its intellectual capital. – Further enhancing the risk management and control culture: These efforts will focus on further implementing a state-of-the-art Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) framework. – Advancing cost and capital efficiency: Converium is committed to further rationalize its internal processes and setup in order to achieve a competitive administrative expense ratio. In addition, Converium constantly seeks to maximize capital efficiency by exploring opportunities for leveraging its balance sheet and transferring risks directly to the capital markets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully implement our strategy or that the strategy will be effective. The implementation and the effectiveness of this strategy are based on a certain number of assumptions (including continued client acceptance outside the United States) and factors that are not under our control. If economic conditions, our competitive position, our rating level or our financial condition are not consistent with these assumptions or our objectives, or if the measures envisaged by the strategy are insufficient, it is possible that our strategy would fail and that we would not achieve our objectives. In this case, our business and financial condition could deteriorate and new measures would need to be devised and implemented. A ratings downgrade could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations or cash flows If our ratings were significantly downgraded, our competitive position in the reinsurance industry may suffer, and it could be more difficult for us to market and sell our products. Certain business that we write contains terms that give the ceding company the right to terminate cover and/or require collateral if our ratings are downgraded. A significant downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of reinsurance contracts we write and in a substantial loss of premium volume as client companies and brokers that place their business, move to other competitors with higher ratings. The claims paying ability ratings assigned by rating agencies to reinsurance or insurance companies are based upon factors and criteria established independently by each rating agency. Rating agencies may downgrade or withdraw their ratings in the future if we do not continue to meet the then current criteria for the ratings previously assigned to us. Such criteria may change, perhaps significantly, at the sole discretion of the rating agencies. Based on the developments in 2004, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its rating of Converium, including its subsidiaries, to BBB and following the rights offering changed this rating to BBB+. On March 1, 2007 Standard & Poor’s raised the rating to A- (Stable Outlook). Although A.M. Best placed its rating of Converium on watch with a positive outlook on September 7, 2006, it continues to rate the Company at B++, the level to which it was downgraded in 2004. Claims-paying ability and financial strength ratings are a key factor in establishing the competitive position of reinsurers. The Company believes that the A- rating from Standard & Poor’s is sufficient but that the B++ rating from A.M. Best may not satisfy the criteria required by some of its target clients and brokers, and that this rating may negatively impact new business and adversely affect its ability to compete. 8 Table of Contents In the light of changing business circumstances associated with Converium’s ratings downgrade in 2004, Converium entered into fronting agreements with Munich Re and National Indemnity Company in order to support and sustain the aviation business from GAUM. Converium expects that continuation of its membership in GAUM will be supported by its rating upgrade from Standard & Poor’s but to some extent may still be conditional upon entering into fronting arrangements acceptable to other pool members in a timely fashion and thereafter maintaining such arrangements. Converium has currently two fronting arrangements in place, both with National Indemnity Company and Munich Re. The current fronting agreement covers the GAUM business written in the US and Canada and is effective from January 1, 2007 until December 31, 2007. The other fronting agreement is for GAUM business written outside the US and Canada and was originally effective from January 1, 2007 until June 30, 2007 and has now been renewed for the period until December 31, 2007. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain the A-rating from Standard & Poor’s and, in the case of a rating downgrade by Standard & Poor’s by two notches to below BBB+, Converium’s membership in GAUM pool would be reduced to less than a 5% share. In such a case, Converium would not be permitted to participate in future pool business and would have to collateralize, through letters of credit, its obligations under the business written by the pool in its name prior to its termination. If Converium’s pool membership were terminated, it would also be required to sell its 30.1% stake in GAUM. In 2006, this business generated USD 230.8 million of gross premiums written. See Notes 7 and 17 to our 2006 consolidated financial statements for additional information on GAUM. Our loss reserves may not adequately cover future losses and benefits Our loss reserves may prove to be inadequate to cover our actual losses and benefits experience. To the extent loss reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses, loss expenses or future life benefits, we would have to add to these loss reserves and incur a charge to our earnings which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but rather are estimates of the expected cost of the ultimate settlement of losses. All of our loss reserve estimates are based on actuarial and statistical projections at a given time, facts and circumstances known at that time and estimates of trends in loss severity and other variable factors, including new concepts of liability and general economic conditions. If the underlying assumptions used do not hold true over time, actual losses could vary, possibly materially, from the estimates. As of December 31, 2006, we had USD 6,348.6 million of gross reserves and USD 5,743.7 million of net reserves for losses and loss expenses. If we underestimated these net reserves by 5%, this would have resulted in an additional USD 287.2 million of incurred losses and loss expenses, before income taxes, for the year ended December 31, 2006. Unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. These additional losses could arise from newly acquired lines of business, changes in the legal environment, or extraordinary events affecting our clients such as reorganizations and liquidations or changes in general economic conditions. We continue to conduct pricing, loss reserving, claims and underwriting studies for many casualty lines of business, including those in which preliminary loss trends are noted. Converium has experienced moderate favorable developments of its loss reserves. Since 2002, Converium has recorded USD (425.6) million of favorable development from continuing operations on prior year’s non-life business (2002: USD (113.9) million; 2003: USD (195.7) million; 2004: USD 72.8 million; 2005 USD (86.0) million; and 2006 USD (102.8) million). The positive reserve development within 2006 was largely within the Property line of business, primarily within the underwriting years 2003 and 2004 as well as the aviation line of business, primarily within the underwriting years 2002, 2003 and 2004. In addition, because we, like other reinsurers, do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded to us may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. We may be unable to meet the collateral requirements necessary for our business In November 2004, Converium AG obtained a USD 1.6 billion, three-year syndicated letter of credit facility (the “Syndicated Letter of Credit Facility”) from various banks. The facility provides Converium’s operating companies with a USD 1.5 billion capacity for issuing letters of credit and a USD 100.0 million liquidity reserve. As of December 31, 2006, Converium had outstanding letters of credit of USD 1,974.5 million under the Syndicated Letter of Credit Facility and other bilateral letter of credit arrangements. Investments of USD 1,973.5 million were 9 Table of Contents pledged as collateral related to the Syndicated Letter of Credit Facility and other irrevocable letters of credit of USD 769.1 million (to secure certain assumed reinsurance contracts). Converium must comply with various financial covenants in order to avoid default under the agreement. In an event of default, the majority lenders may cancel the total commitment and/or may declare that all amounts outstanding may be immediately due and payable and that full cash cover in respect of each letter of credit is immediately due and payable. See “Item 3. — Key information — D. Risk factors – Ratings changes” for information on collateral requirements related to GAUM and Notes 7 and 17 to our 2006 consolidated financial statements. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the reinsurance industry The insurance and reinsurance industries, particularly the non-life market, are cyclical. Historically, operating results of reinsurers have fluctuated significantly because of volatile and sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are beyond their direct control. These developments include: • price competition and price setting mechanisms of clients; • frequency of occurrence or severity of both natural and man-made catastrophic events; • levels of capacity and demand; • general economic conditions; and • changes in legislation, case law and prevailing concepts of liability. As a result, the reinsurance business historically has been characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of underwriting capacity permitted attractive premium levels. We expect to continue to experience the effects of cyclicality, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Securitization trend could disadvantage medium-sized players The reinsurance market is undergoing changes in the nature of its core business practices. One of the trends in the insurance industry has been the development of instruments designed to allow for the trading of insurance risks in the capital markets. Examples of insurance securitization tools that have been developed include catastrophe bonds and catastrophe equity puts. Trading insurance risks in the capital markets will spread the risks across alternative risk carriers which could lead to a reduced demand for reinsurance products. We may face competitive disadvantages in the reinsurance industry The reinsurance industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors may have greater financial or operating resources or offer a broader range of products or more competitive pricing than we do. Our ability to compete is based on many factors, including our overall financial strength and rating, geographic scope of business, client relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered, speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees and local presence. We compete for reinsurance business in international reinsurance markets with numerous reinsurance and insurance companies, some of which have greater financial or other resources and some of which have higher financial strength ratings. We believe that our largest competitors include: • Munich Reinsurance Company; • Swiss Reinsurance Company; • Hannover Re Group; • SCOR; 10 Table of Contents • PartnerRe Group; and • Lloyd’s syndicates active in the London market. In addition, new companies have entered the reinsurance market and existing companies have raised additional capital to increase their underwriting capacity. Other financial institutions, such as banks, are also able to offer services similar to our own. We have also recently seen the creation of alternative products from capital market participants that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. We are unable to predict the extent to which these new, proposed or potential initiatives may affect the demand for our products or the supply and terms of risks that may be available for us to consider underwriting. As a result of ongoing investigations of the insurance and reinsurance industry and non-traditional insurance products, we conducted an internal review and analysis of certain of our reinsurance transactions and have previously restated our financial statements, however the governmental inquiries are ongoing Ongoing investigations of the insurance and reinsurance industry and non-traditional insurance and reinsurance products are being conducted by U.S. and international regulators and governmental authorities, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Attorney General. On March 8, 2005, MBIA Inc. (“MBIA”) issued a press release stating that MBIA’s audit committee undertook an investigation to determine whether there was an oral agreement with MBIA under which MBIA would replace Axa Re Finance as a reinsurer to Converium Reinsurance (North America) Inc. (“CRNA”) by no later than October 2005. The press release stated that it appeared likely that MBIA made such an agreement or understanding with Axa Re Finance in 1998. Thereafter, on April 19, 2005, CRNA received subpoenas from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Office of the New York Attorney General seeking documents related to certain transactions between CRNA and MBIA. Converium has also received additional inquiries from the Securities and Exchange Commission and other governmental authorities in Europe regarding non-traditional insurance and reinsurance products and/or the restatement of its financial statements. The inquiries are ongoing and Converium is fully cooperating with the governmental authorities. In view of the industry investigations and the events relating to MBIA described above, Converium engaged independent outside counsel to assist it in a review and analysis of certain of its reinsurance transactions, including the MBIA transactions. The internal review, which was overseen by the Audit Committee, addressed issues arising from the ongoing governmental inquiries and Converium’s own decision to review certain additional items. The internal review involved the assessment of numerous assumed and ceded transactions including structured/finite risk and other reinsurance transactions and encompassed all business units of Converium, a review of hundreds of thousands of e-mails, attachments to e-mails and other documents and interviews of certain members of the Global Executive Committee and the Board of Directors, as well as certain former members of senior management and other employees of Converium. The Audit Committee believes that the scope and process of the internal review has been sufficient to determine whether Converium’s assumed and ceded transactions which improperly accounted for as reinsurance, rather than as deposits. After discussing the findings of Converium’s extensive internal review with independent outside counsel, the Audit Committee determined that certain accounting corrections were appropriate and authorized the restatement of Converium’s financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2004 through 1998, which occurred during late 2005. As part of this process, the Audit Committee involved its independent group auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers Ltd. As noted above, we are fully cooperating with the governmental authorities, and are in the process of sharing the results of our internal review with the relevant authorities. Although the internal review was extensive, the ongoing governmental inquiries, or other developments, could result in further restatements of our financial results in the future and could have a materially adverse effect on Converium. We are a defendant in a class action lawsuit related to the Company’s announcement on July 20, 2004 that second quarter 2004 results would fall short of expectations due to higher than modeled U.S. casualty loss emergence primarily related to the underwriting years 1996 to 2001 As discussed in greater detail below, the Company is a defendant in a securities law class action case arising out of the Company’s announcement on July 20, 2004 that second quarter 2004 results would fall short of expectations due to higher than modeled U.S. casualty loss emergence primarily related to the underwriting years 1996 to 2001. The consolidated actions are in the discovery phase; thus, the timing and outcome of these matters are not currently predictable. The costs of defending the class actions may have a material impact on our operating results in future reporting periods and an unfavorable outcome could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Regulatory or legal changes could adversely affect our business Insurance laws, regulations and policies currently governing our clients and us may change at any time in ways which may adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we cannot predict the timing or form of any future regulatory initiatives. We are subject to applicable government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business, particularly in Switzerland, the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany. Regulatory agencies have broad administrative power over many aspects of the insurance and reinsurance industries. Government regulators are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders or creditors. Recently, the insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has been subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions. Changes in current insurance regulation may include increased governmental involvement in the insurance industry, initiatives aimed at premium controls, requirements for participation in guaranty associations or other industry pools and other changes which could adversely affect the reinsurance business and economic environment. Such changes could impose new financial obligations on us, require us to make unplanned modifications of our products and services, or result in delays or cancellations of sales of our products and services. The reinsurance industry is also affected by political, judicial, regulatory and other legal developments, which have at times in the past resulted in new or expanded theories of liability. We cannot predict the future impact of changing law or regulation on our business. See “Item 4. — B. Business Overview — Regulation”. European Reinsurance Directive may disadvantage companies like us which are not established within the European Union The new EU Reinsurance Directive that was adopted on November 16, 2005 does not provide for any discrimination of non-EU based reinsurance companies. However, if the individual EU member states, in implementing the EU Reinsurance Directive, should include any discriminatory regulations with respect to reinsurers of a non-EU member state, this could be a disadvantage for Converium AG in its doing business in the EU, as Converium AG derives a substantial proportion of its revenues within the EU and any competitive disadvantage we face there could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, a large portion of those revenues are being written through our subsidiary in the EU member state Germany, where no negative impact can arise from the implementation of the directive. In addition Converium has a second subsidiary in the UK, which also is an EU member. See “Item 4. — Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — European Union Directives”. Our exposure to catastrophic events, both natural and man-made, may cause unexpected large losses A catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events may cause unexpected large losses and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. Natural catastrophic events to which we are exposed include windstorms, hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, severe hail, severe winter weather, floods and fires and man-made catastrophic events, for example, acts of terrorism, are inherently unpredictable in terms of both their occurrence and severity. For example, in 2005, the reinsurance industry suffered extensive losses from the hurricanes that occurred in the United States and the floods in Continental Europe. These events adversely affected our results. We are also exposed to man-made catastrophic events, which may have a significant adverse impact on our industry and on us. It is possible that both the frequency and severity of man-made catastrophic events will increase. As a result, claims from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any period and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to write new business could also be impacted. We believe that increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation will increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. The extent of our losses from catastrophic occurrences is a function of the frequency and severity of events, the number of our clients affected, and the total catastrophe losses incurred by our clients and our participation in the reinsurance policies affected. In addition, depending on the nature of the loss, the speed with which claims are made and settled, and the terms and conditions of the policies affected, we may be required to make large claims payments upon short notice. We may be forced to fund these obligations by liquidating investments unexpectedly and in unfavorable market conditions, or by raising funds at unfavorable costs, both of which could adversely affect the results of our operations. 12 Table of Contents Our efforts to protect ourselves against catastrophic losses, such as the use of selective underwriting practices, purchasing reinsurance (known as retrocessional reinsurance, when bought by a reinsurer such as Converium) and monitoring risk accumulation may not prevent such occurrences from adversely affecting our profitability or financial condition. The majority of the natural catastrophe reinsurance we write relates to exposures within Europe, Japan and the United States. Accordingly, we are exposed to natural catastrophic events, which affect these regions, such as European windstorm, Japanese earthquake and US hurricane or earthquake events. Terrorist attacks, national security threats, military initiatives and political unrest could result in the payment of material insurance claims and may have a negative effect on our business Threats of terrorist attacks, national security threats, military initiatives and political unrest have had and may continue to have a significant adverse effect on general economic, market and political conditions, increasing many of the risks in our businesses. We cannot predict the long-term effects of terrorist attacks, threats to national security, military initiatives and political unrest on our businesses at this time. Although Zurich Financial Services, through its subsidiaries, has agreed to arrangements that cap our exposure for losses and loss expenses arising out of the September 11th terrorist attacks at USD 289.2 (subsequently reduced to USD 231.0 million following the sale of our North American operations), net of retrocessional reinsurance recoveries, terrorist attacks and other man-made catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For a discussion of the impact of the September 11th terrorist attacks on our business, see Note 8 to our 2006 consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to achieve our investment objectives, our investment results may be adversely affected Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, net investment income and net realized capital gains accounted for 13.4% and 11.4% of our revenues, respectively. Our capital levels, ability to pay claims and our operating results substantially depend on our ability to achieve our investment objectives, which may be affected by general political and economic conditions that are beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on fixed income investments in our available-for-sale portfolio, as well as the market values of, and corresponding levels of unrealized and realized capital gains or losses on the available-for-sale fixed income securities in our investment portfolio. Generally, investment income will be reduced during sustained periods of lower interest rates as higher yielding fixed income securities are called, mature or are sold and the proceeds reinvested at lower rates. During periods of rising interest rates, prices of fixed income securities tend to fall and realized gains upon their sale are reduced. In addition, as described under “Formation transactions and relationship with Zurich Financial Services,” under the Quota Share Retrocession Agreement, the Funds Withheld Asset may be prepaid to us, in whole or in part, as of the end of any calendar quarter. In the event that the Funds Withheld Asset is prepaid, we would have to reinvest these assets in investments and we may not be able to invest them at yields comparable to those payable under the Quota Share Retrocession Agreement. To the extent we are not able to invest these funds at comparable yields, our investment income could be adversely affected. Capital market fluctuations may adversely impact the value of our investments and shareholders’ equity We had a cash and investments portfolio of USD 6,398.4 million as of December 31, 2006. As with any institutional investor with a similarly sized portfolio, Converium is exposed to the financial markets; in particular, an increase in interest rates, and a resulting decline in the market value of our fixed income securities, would adversely impact our shareholders’ equity for the securities we account for as available-for-sale. General economic conditions can adversely affect the markets for interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the value of fixed income securities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic political conditions and other factors beyond our control. 13 Table of Contents We have historically invested and may continue to invest a portion of our assets globally in equity securities, which are generally subject to greater risks and more volatility than fixed income securities. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the equity markets and, consequently, the value of the equity securities we own. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may impact our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows We publish our financial statements in US dollars. Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other currencies, particularly European currencies including the Euro, British pound and Swiss franc, into US dollars will impact our reported financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from year to year. These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the US dollar value of our investments and the return on our investments. For 2006, approximately: • 80% of our net premiums written • 60% of our net investment income • 85% of our losses, loss expenses and life benefits, and • 72% of our operating expenses were denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. As we will only be writing limited business from the United States, a smaller proportion of our business will be denominated in US dollars in the future. For a discussion of the impact of material changes in foreign exchange rates on our shareholders’ equity, see “Item 11. — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks”. The loss of key employees and executive officers without suitable replacements being recruited within a suitable period of time could adversely affect us Our ability to execute our business strategy is dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain a staff of qualified underwriters and other key employees. Our senior management team includes a number of key personnel whose skills, experience and knowledge of the reinsurance industry constitute important elements of Converium’s competitive strengths. If some of these executive officers or key employees leave their positions at Converium, even if we were able to find persons with suitable skills to replace them, our operations could be adversely affected. In addition, a strong financial position is important to us in order to retain and attract skilled personnel in the industry, especially underwriters with specific expertise in high-margin, non-commoditized specialty lines of business. If our current or future financial position does not allow us to do so, our operations could be adversely affected. See “Item 6. — Directors, Senior Management and Employees — A. Directors and Senior Management”. 14 Table of Contents Consolidation in the insurance industry could lead to lower margins for us and less demand for our reinsurance products and services The insurance industry overall is undergoing a process of consolidation as industry participants seek to enhance their product and geographic reach, client base, operating efficiency and general market power through merger and acquisition activities. These larger entities may seek to use the benefits of consolidation to, among other things, implement price reductions for the products and services they purchase. If competitive pressures compel us to reduce our prices, our operating margins would decrease. As the insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers may become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, which could reduce our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to enhance their negotiating position when buying reinsurance and may be able to spread their risks across a larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. We purchase retrocessional reinsurance, which may become unavailable on acceptable terms and subjects us to credit risk In order to limit the effect on our financial condition of large and multiple losses, we buy retrocessional reinsurance. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance which they consider adequate for their business needs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain our desired amounts of retrocessional reinsurance. There is also no assurance that, if we are able to obtain such retrocessional reinsurance, we will be able to negotiate terms as favorable to us as in prior years. A retrocessionaire’s insolvency or its inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance treaty with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Therefore, our retrocessions subject us to credit risk because the ceding of risk to retrocessionaires does not relieve us of our liability to our ceding companies. We are dependent on a small number of reinsurance brokers for a large portion of our revenue and exposed to their credit risk We market our reinsurance products in our target markets in part through reinsurance brokers. In some markets we principally write through reinsurance brokers. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business written through brokers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although the percentage of our gross premiums written produced through brokers decreased to 28% in 2006 (from 32% in 2005), we are still subject to risks associated with business produced through brokers. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the insurers that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. We refer to these insurers as ceding insurers. In some jurisdictions, or pursuant to some contractual arrangements, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we may remain liable to the ceding insurer for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the ceding insurer pays premiums for these policies to reinsurance brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, in connection with the settlement of reinsurance balances, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with reinsurance brokers around the world. We may be adversely affected if Zurich Financial Services or its subsidiaries fail to honor their obligations to us or our clients As part of the Formation Transactions described under “Formation transactions and relationship with Zurich Financial Services” in “Item 4. — Information on the Company — A. History and Development of the Company” and in “Item 10. — Additional Information — C. Material Contracts”, we entered into a number of contractual agreements with Zurich Financial Services and its affiliates including the Master Agreement, the Quota Share Retrocession Agreement, the Master Novation and Indemnity Reinsurance Agreement, service agreements, lease agreements and certain indemnity agreements. Among other things, under the Quota Share Retrocession Agreement, Zurich Financial Services, through its subsidiaries, provides us with a substantial amount of our investment returns. Additionally, Zurich Financial Services, through its subsidiaries, has agreed to arrangements that cap our exposure, net of retrocessional reinsurance recoveries, for losses and loss expenses arising out of the September 11th terrorist attacks at USD 289.2 million, (subsequently reduced to USD 231.0 million following the sale of our North American operations) the amount of loss and loss expenses we recorded as of September 30, 2001. In addition, subsidiaries of Zurich Financial Services have provided us with retrocessional reinsurance protection, provided coverage for certain workers’ compensation exposure, indemnified us for specified taxes and other matters and agreed to lease or sublease office space to us. Therefore, we are exposed to credit risk from Zurich Financial Services with respect to these obligations. 15 Table of Contents In addition, Zurich Financial Services subsidiaries remain the legal counterparty for many of our assumed reinsurance contracts, particularly those reinsurance contracts entered into prior to the date of the initial public offering. Although we do not have credit risk exposure with respect to these contracts, if these Zurich Financial Services subsidiaries do not honor their commitments efficiently and effectively to these clients, we might bear reputational risk. See “Item 4. – Information on the Company – A. History and Development of the Company”. We are dependent on a small number of relationships for a substantial proportion of our business; the loss of a key business relationship could significantly reduce our premium volume and reduce net income Substantial parts of our current business come from a small number of relationships such as Lloyd’s syndicates, MDU and GAUM which represent approximately 38% of our total gross premiums written. We are therefore exposed to certain concentration risk. The loss of all or a substantial portion of a key business relationship could significantly reduce the gross premium written and net income of a business segment or the company overall. We may be restricted from consummating a change of control transaction, disposing of assets or entering new lines of business Certain tax considerations and contractual arrangements with Zurich Financial Services may make an acquisition of Converium less likely and limit our ability to dispose of assets or enter into new lines of business. See “Formation transactions and relationship with Zurich Financial Services”. Our inability to dispose of assets or enter new lines of business may render us less able to respond to changing market and competitive conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are potentially exposed to a significant loss of business in the event of a change of control Certain business that we write contains termination provisions which give the ceding company or counterparty the right of termination in the event of a change in control. Whether a change in control has taken place will ordinarily be determined by the legal jurisdiction which governs the individual contract concerned. The Company has a number of material contracts which contain such a clause including the aviation pool membership and shareholders agreement in GAUM, the MDU business and our shareholding in MDUSL and the ZIC and ZIB Quota Share Retrocession Agreements. Accordingly the exercise of termination provisions following a change in control could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may require additional equity or debt financing in the future, which may only be available at unfavourable terms Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully, the frequency and severity of catastrophic events, and our ability to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. We may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favourable to us. Equity financings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders and could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favourable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to SCOR’s Tender Offer for Converium’s registered shares On May 9, 2007, Converium and SCOR entered into a transaction agreement (the “SCOR Transaction Agreement”) pursuant to which SCOR agreed to offer holders of Converium’s registered shares 0.5 new SCOR shares and CHF 5.50 in cash in exchange for each Converium registered share tendered and Converium agreed that its Board of Directors would recommend SCOR’s Tender Offer (the "SCOR Tender Offer") to Converium shareholders. We are subject to the following risks as a result of the SCOR Tender Offer: Regardless of whether or not the SCOR Tender Offer is completed, the announcement and pendency of the SCOR Tender Offer could cause disruptions in our business Uncertainty about the effect of the SCOR Tender Offer on our business operations and employees could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. These uncertainties may impair our ability to retain and motivate key personnel until the SCOR Tender Offer is completed and could cause our customers and other parties who deal with us to defer decisions regarding business relationships with us or other decisions concerning us, or to seek to change existing business relationships with us. If key employees depart because of uncertainty about their future roles with us, our ability to continue to execute our business and strategic plans could be adversely affected. In addition, the attention of our management may shift away from our ongoing business toward the completion of the SCOR Tender Offer and the integration of our businesses following the consummation of the SCOR Tender Offer. If the SCOR Tender Offer is not completed, our management will have spent considerable time, and incurred significant expenses, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Converium expects significant transaction and defense services costs during 2007. In addition, the loss of employees, customers or other relationships during the pendency of the SCOR Tender Offer could adversely affect our business if the SCOR Tender Offer is not completed. Furthermore, the SCOR Transaction Agreement generally restricts us, until the SCOR Tender Offer occurs, from taking actions outside of the ordinary course of business, without the consent of SCOR. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to pursue key aspects of our strategic plans prior to the completion of the SCOR Tender Offer. If SCOR is unsuccessful and the SCOR Tender Offer is not consummated, SCOR will control a substantial portion of our registered shares If the SCOR Tender Offer is not consummated, SCOR will control approximately 32.9% of our voting securities. As a result, SCOR may over time be able to remove our current directors and elect a slate of its own directors and otherwise exert significant influence over the day-to-day affairs of the Company. After completion of the SCOR Tender Offer, there may be substantial difficulty and costs associated with the integration of our operations with those of SCOR’s Prior to the completion of the SCOR Tender Offer, the Company and SCOR operated, and will continue to operate, as independent companies, each with its own business, products, customers, employees, culture and systems. As such, the integration process will be complex, time-consuming and expensive and we may face substantial difficulties, costs and delays associated with the integration, including: • perceived adverse changes in product offerings available to clients or client service standards, whether or not these changes do, in fact, occur; • the retention of our and SCOR’s existing clients, joint venture partners and underwriters; and • retaining and integrating management, underwriters and other key employees of the resulting company. After the consummation of the SCOR Tender Offer, the combined company may seek to consolidate certain operations and functions using common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resource practices, including training, professional development and benefit programs. The combined company may be unsuccessful or delayed in implementing the integration of these systems and processes and, as a result, the expected benefits of a transaction with SCOR may be delayed. Furthermore, as discussed below, following the consummation of the SCOR Tender Offer, Inga Beale, our Chief Executive Officer, and Paolo De Martin, our Chief Financial Officer, will be terminated with effect as of December 31, 2007. We entered into the SCOR Transaction Agreement with the expectation that the combination with SCOR could result in various benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a strengthened market position for the resulting company in its businesses, cross-selling opportunities, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits is subject to general competitive factors in the marketplace and a number of uncertainties, including our ability to integrate with SCOR in an efficient and effective manner. Any delay or the failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy and could materially impact the resulting company’s business, financial condition and operating results. While we have no intention of doing so, the SCOR Transaction Agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the SCOR Tender Offer Under the terms of the SCOR Transaction Agreement, we are generally precluded from encouraging or participating in any discussions that could lead to an alternative transaction to the current transaction with SCOR. Similarly, subject to certain exceptions, our Board of Directors is restricted in its ability to withdraw or modify its recommendation that our stockholders approve the SCOR Tender Offer. The consideration offered in the SCOR Tender Offer is substantially share based which, if taken up by shareholders, would expose them to any future SCOR share price fluctuations The consideration offered in the SCOR Tender Offer is substantially share based which, if taken up by shareholders, would expose them to any future SCOR share price fluctuations. In addition, our review of SCOR’s business was limited to publicly available information. Consequently, we have not independently verified the public information available to us and any undisclosed or unknown liabilities of SCOR may have an adverse affect on the benefits of the combination or on SCOR’s profitability, results of operations, financial condition or prospects following the combination. The market for the Company’s registered shares and ADSs may be less liquid following completion of the SCOR Tender Offer, and the value of registered shares and American Depository Shares may be lower The consummation of the SCOR Tender Offer will reduce the number of holders of Converium registered shares as well as the number of Converium registered shares that might otherwise trade publicly and, depending upon the number of Converium registered shares so exchanged, could adversely affect the liquidity and market value of the remaining Converium registered shares and American Depositary Shares held by the public. The extent of the public market for the Converium registered shares and the availability of such quotations would depend upon such factors as the number of holders remaining at such time, the interest on the part of securities firms in maintaining a market in Converium registered shares or Converium American Depositary Shares, and the possible termination of registration of Converium registered shares and American Depositary Shares under the Exchange Act, would adversely affect the amount of publicly available information with respect to Converium. The SCOR Tender Offer has not been extended in, or into, the United States or to holders of the Company’s American Depositary Shares Because the SCOR Tender Offer has not been extended to holders of our registered shares in the United States and is not extended to holders of the Company’s American Depositary Shares, regardless of whether such American Depositary Shares are held by persons outside of the United States, to the extent you are a U.S. resident or hold American Depositary Shares, you may not participate in the SCOR Tender Offer. In that instance, following the consummation of the SCOR Tender Offer, you may hold shares or American Depositary Receipts in a Company controlled by SCOR. The failure of SCOR to consummate the SCOR Tender Offer could negatively affect the price of our registered shares and American Depositary Shares and our future business and financial prospects. There is no assurance that SCOR will successfully complete the SCOR Tender Offer. If the SCOR Tender Offer is not completed, our management will have spent considerable time, and incurred significant expenses, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our management has spent, and will continue to spend, considerable amounts of time focusing on the integration of our businesses, which could limit their time and effort available to pursue other business activities that may be important to our operations. Additionally, the market price of our registered shares and American Depositary Shares may reflect a market assumption that the SCOR Tender Offer is likely to be consummated, and a failure to do so would likely result in a decline in the market price of our registered shares and American Depositary Shares. 