ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Because we have a limited operating history, there is a limited amount of information about us upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Our operations began in January 2000, and we have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biopharmaceutical area. For example, to execute our business plan, we will need to successfully: • advance AVN944 through the development process; • demonstrate the advantages and reliability of our proprietary drug discovery and development technology, AvalonRx®; • build and maintain a strong intellectual property portfolio; 15 Table of Contents • develop and maintain successful strategic relationships; and • manage costs associated with our research and product development plans, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and delivering pharmaceutical products to the market. If we are unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, we may not be able to develop drug candidates, raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations. We will need substantial additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We will continue to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with developing our technology and conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials. During 2005 we completed an initial public offering of our common stock resulting in $25.1 million in net proceeds to us. During 2006, we completed a private placement of our common stock raising an additional $7.3 million. Subsequent to December 31, 2006, we completed a private placement of our common stock raising an additional $10.0 million. Nevertheless, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to continue to fund our operations, including to: • fund clinical trials and seek regulatory approvals; • pursue the development of additional product candidates; • maintain and expand our research and development activities; • access manufacturing and commercialization capabilities; • implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; • maintain, defend and expand the scope of our intellectual property portfolio; and • hire additional personnel. Our future capital requirements will depend on a number of factors, including: • the size and complexity of research and development programs; • our ability to attract and retain partners; • the scope and results of preclinical testing and clinical trials; • continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the time and expense involved in seeking regulatory approvals; • competing technological and market developments; • acquisition, licensing and protection of intellectual property rights; and • the cost of establishing manufacturing capabilities and conducting commercialization activities. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic collaborations. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs. In addition, we may have to partner one or more of our drug candidate programs at an earlier stage of development, which would lower the economic value of those programs to our Company. We have a history of losses, we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. We do not currently have any products that have been approved for marketing, and we continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. We had net losses of $17.1 million for the year ended 16 Table of Contents December 31, 2006. We expect our annual operating losses to continue over the next several years. Our losses, among other things, have caused and will continue to cause our and working capital stockholders’ equity to decrease. To date, we have derived all of our revenue in connection with collaborations. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of products for the foreseeable future. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing novel drugs with significant market potential. This will require us to succeed in a range of challenging activities, including conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, entering into appropriate collaborations, and manufacturing, marketing and selling commercial products. We may never succeed in these activities, and may never generate revenues sufficient to achieve profitability. If we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it. If we fail to earn profits, or if we cannot sustain profitability, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. In addition, we may be unable to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. We have no products approved for commercial sale and do not expect to have any products approved for commercial sale for the next several years; our lead drug candidate, AVN944, is at an early stage of development, and we may not successfully develop it or any other future drug candidate into a commercial product. The drug discovery and development process is highly uncertain, and we have not developed, and may never develop, a drug candidate that ultimately leads to a commercial product. AVN944 is in the early stages of development, and we do not have any drugs approved for commercial sale. AVN944 may prove unsuccessful in clinical trials, may prove to be too costly to develop into a commercially viable product or may fail to receive regulatory approval for marketing. At any time, we may decide to discontinue the development of AVN944 or any other future drug candidate or not to commercialize a candidate. The drug discovery methods we employ through AvalonRx® are new and unproven and may not lead to the development of commercially viable drugs. The drug discovery methods we employ through AvalonRx® that are based upon gene expression analysis are new and, in several ways, unproven. For instance, our drug discovery technology profiles the effects of compounds on thousands of genes in a cell rather than an isolated target, a process that is novel and unproven in its usefulness to develop commercially viable drugs. There is limited scientific understanding generally relating to the regulation of gene expression and the role of genes in complex diseases, and relatively few products based on gene discoveries have been developed and commercialized by drug manufacturers. Even if we are successful in identifying compounds that show effects on the pathways that cells use to control the expression of genes associated with cancer, these discoveries may not lead to the development of effective drugs. Furthermore, the safety and efficacy of drugs that alter gene expression have not yet been established. We may be unable to accelerate the drug discovery process. Although we believe that one of the advantages of AvalonRx® is its ability to accelerate the drug discovery process, we have not yet identified a drug candidate using AvalonRx® that has advanced beyond in vivo preclinical testing. Therefore, we cannot confirm that AvalonRx® performs as reliably as conventional drug discovery methods. Our lead drug candidate, AVN944, was not discovered or developed with AvalonRx®. Until we succeed in discovering compounds that become approved drugs, we will not be certain that the efficiency that we believe is afforded by AvalonRx® is commercially meaningful. Preclinical and clinical testing are time consuming, expensive, and uncertain processes. Before the FDA approves a drug candidate for marketing, it is tested for safety and efficacy in preclinical testing and human clinical trials. The preclinical phase involves the discovery, characterization, product formulation and animal testing necessary to prepare an IND for submission to the FDA. The IND must be accepted by the FDA before the drug can be tested in humans in the United States. The clinical phase of development follows a successful IND submission and involves the activities necessary to demonstrate the safety, tolerability, efficacy, dose and dose schedule of the product candidate in humans, as well as the ability to produce the substance in accordance with cGMP requirements. Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and 17 Table of Contents uncertain processes. It may take us several years to complete our testing, and failure can occur at any stage of the process. During the process, we expect to incur significant expenses to conduct trials and follow required regulatory processes. We do not know whether our IND for future products or the protocols for any future clinical trials will be accepted by the FDA. We do not know if our clinical trials will begin or be completed on schedule or at all. Even if completed, we do not know if these trials will produce clinically meaningful results sufficient to support an application for marketing approval. The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • a limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of cancer for enrollment in clinical trials; • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory clearance to commence a clinical trial; • delays or failures in obtaining sufficient clinical materials; • delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites; and • delays or failures in obtaining Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; • failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy during clinical trials; • inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and • regulatory action by the FDA for failure to comply with regulatory requirements. Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, or by us. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our drug candidates could harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidates. If we achieve success at any stage of the clinical trial process, that success may not continue. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Interim results of trials do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. For example, a single partial response or even a small number of partial responses in cancer patients is not necessarily indicative of success in demonstrating efficacy in Phase II and Phase III clinical trials. Other reasons why candidates that appear promising in preclinical testing or clinical trials may fail to become marketed drugs include: • failing to demonstrate clinical effectiveness or having significantly lower efficacy than existing therapies; • producing harmful side effects; • denial of regulatory approvals by the FDA or other regulators; • failing to acquire, on reasonable terms, intellectual property rights necessary for commercialization; and • loss of market to competing drugs which are more effective or economical. 18 Table of Contents Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated. In addition, the FDA could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results and require us to alter the design of the clinical trial or terminate the clinical trial altogether. If we need to alter a clinical trial design or perform more or larger clinical trials than planned, our financial results will be harmed. If we fail to enter into new strategic collaborations, or if existing collaborations are terminated, we will not grow our revenue and our ability to exploit AvalonRx® to discover drugs for diseases other than cancer will be limited. Our business strategy is based in part upon entering into strategic collaborations. To date, all of our revenue has been generated from strategic collaborations, and we continue to rely on our strategic collaborations with MedImmune, Inc., Medarex, Inc. and Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Inc. as a means of furthering our research initiatives. Both the Merck and MedImmune collaborations have provisions that could result in their termination without material breach by Avalon. If we are unable to secure strategic collaborations in the future, or if existing collaborations are terminated prematurely, our revenue will not grow or will decrease and our business will be harmed. Strategic collaborations also provide us with insights into diseases other than cancer by exposing us to the expertise of collaboration partners which focus on these diseases. If we are unable to secure strategic collaborations which expand our disease expertise, we may harm our ability to broaden our drug discovery and development activities to diseases other than cancer. We intend to rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for drug candidates, and we intend to rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to perform this function. If third parties do not perform satisfactorily, meet expected deadlines, or comply with regulatory requirements, any clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates may be extended, delayed, terminated, or subject to rejection by the FDA. We may not be able to locate any necessary replacements or enter into favorable agreements with them, if at all. We do not have any manufacturing capabilities for any of our drug candidates. We outsource all of our manufacturing to third parties, and we intend to rely on third parties to manufacture bulk compounds and finished investigational medicines for human clinical trials and for commercial quantities of any of our drug candidates. Consequently, in order to complete the commercialization process of any of our drug candidates, we must either: (1) acquire, build or expand our internal manufacturing capabilities to produce drug candidates in compliance with cGMP requirements; or (2) rely on third parties to manufacture these drug candidates in compliance with cGMPs. We cannot be sure that we will be able to accomplish either of these tasks. If we are not able to do so, it would impede our efforts to bring our drug candidates to market, which would adversely affect our business. Moreover, if we decide to manufacture one or more of our drug candidates ourselves (rather than engage a contract manufacturer), we would incur substantial start-up expenses and regulatory obligations and would need to expand our facilities and hire additional personnel. Additionally, the manufacture of drug candidates on a limited basis for investigational use in animal studies or human clinical trials does not guarantee that large-scale, commercial production is viable. Small changes in methods of manufacture can affect the safety, efficacy, controlled release or other characteristics of a product. 19 Table of Contents We have no sales, marketing or distribution experience. To develop internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, we would have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources. For drugs where we decide to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to attract and build a significant marketing or sales force; • the cost of establishing, training, and providing regulatory oversight for a marketing or sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular product; • our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful; and • there are significant legal and regulatory risks in drug marketing and sales that we have never faced, and any failure to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements for sales, marketing, and distribution could result in enforcement action by the FDA or other authorities that could jeopardize our ability to market the product or could subject us to substantial liability. Alternatively, we may rely on third parties to launch and market our drug candidates, if approved. We may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties and our future revenue may depend on the success of these third parties. Additionally, if these third parties fail to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements, the FDA could take enforcement action that could jeopardize our ability to market the drug candidate. Our chemical library may be insufficient to meet our needs. We currently have more than 250,000 individual compounds and 10,000 chemical extracts available for screening in our AvalonRx® drug discovery platform. This may not be a sufficient number of compounds to isolate rare hits against key drug targets or there may be an insufficient number with appropriate drug-like properties. We face intense competition in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Our business will be harmed if our competitors develop and market drugs that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than our drug candidates. With respect to our drug discovery programs, other companies have drug candidates in clinical trials to treat types of cancer for which we are seeking to discover and develop drug candidates. These competing drugs are further advanced in development than are any of our drug candidates and may result in effective, commercially successful drugs. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our products may not receive marketing approval or, if they do, may not be approved for a disease or with labeling that allows our products to compete effectively with or other commercial products. Our competitors may succeed in developing and marketing drugs either that are more effective than those that we may develop or that are marketed before any drugs we develop are marketed. In the area of small molecule anticancer therapeutics, we have identified a number of companies that have clinical development programs and focused research and development efforts in small molecule approaches to cancer treatment, such as Amgen, Inc., Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc., ArQule, Inc., Array Biopharma, Inc., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Oxigene, Inc., and Telik, Inc. In addition, large pharmaceutical companies with significant research capabilities are or may be pursuing similar approaches. For example, Merck & Co., Inc., through its acquisition of Rosetta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2001, gained the ability to develop small molecule cancer drugs using gene expression analysis technologies. We are aware of other companies that are developing IMPDH inhibitors as potential therapeutics for diseases other than cancer. Additionally, our license from Vertex is limited to the compound AVN944 and does not prevent Vertex from developing or licensing to third parties the right to develop other IMPDH inhibitors, including compounds similar to AVN944 that could compete directly with it. 20 Table of Contents Many of the organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater marketing capabilities than we do. In addition, these organizations also compete with us to: • attract qualified personnel; • attract parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations; and • license technology that is competitive with our technology. We may not be able to recruit and retain the experienced scientists and managers we need to compete in the drug research and development industry. We had 56 full-time employees as of December 31, 2006, and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled scientists and managers. We compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, contract research companies, government agencies and academic and research institutions to recruit scientists. We may not be successful in attracting new scientists or managers or in retaining or motivating our existing personnel. Our future success also depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide strategic direction, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable environment. In particular, we rely on the services of Dr. Kenneth C. Carter, our President and Chief Executive Officer. If we cannot attract and retain qualified scientists and managers, we will not be able to continue to provide or expand our drug discovery efforts. We may face liability claims related to the use or misuse of our drug candidates in clinical trials. If our insurance coverage is not sufficient, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. The administration of our drug candidates to humans in clinical trials may expose us to liability claims. Such liability claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. We have obtained liability coverage for clinical trials. However, we cannot be certain that our insurance policies will be sufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. We intend to increase our coverage limits as we progress into late-stage clinical trials. Liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. Generally, our clinical trials will be conducted in patients with serious life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and, during the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical effects or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our drug candidates. Any of these events could result in a claim of liability. Any such claims against us, regardless of their merit, could result in significant awards against us that could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to successfully manage our growth, our business could be materially harmed. If we are successful in our plans, we expect rapid and significant growth in all areas of our operations as we develop our drug candidates. If our lead drug candidate, AVN944, and our other drug candidates enter and advance through the clinical trial process, we will need to rapidly expand our research, development, regulatory, manufacturing and marketing capabilities or contract with others to provide these functions for us. As our operations expand, we will need to hire additional personnel and add corporate capabilities we currently do not have. In addition, we will need to manage relationships with various manufacturers, collaborators, suppliers, contract research and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operational, financial and management controls, as well as our internal reporting systems and controls. We may not be able to implement such improvements to our management information and internal control systems in an efficient and timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially harm our business. 21 Table of Contents Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, which may result in a decrease in the price of our common stock. Our future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • the introduction of new anticancer drugs by us or our competitors; • costs and expenses associated with delays in or changes to preclinical testing and clinical trials; • the timing of regulatory approvals; • sales and marketing expenses; and • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business operations and facilities. It is possible that in some future periods our operating results may be below the expectations of analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our common stock may decrease. Our agreements with the Maryland Industrial Development Financing Authority, or MIDFA, and Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, or M&T Bank, for the financing of our corporate office and research facility contain restrictions on our operations that could inhibit our ability to grow our business and generate revenues, and any default under these agreements could materially harm our business. In order to finance improvements to our corporate office and research facility, we have entered into a loan agreement with MIDFA and a letter of credit agreement with M&T Bank that contain, among other terms, extensive restrictions on our operations, requires us to comply with certain affirmative covenants and requires us to maintain or satisfy specified financial ratios and tests, including among other things, as of December 31, 2006, a $7.7 million minimum level of tangible net worth, a $5.8 million minimum restricted cash balance, and a minimum ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 1.5:1. Any breach or failure to comply with these restrictions, covenants, financial tests or financial ratios could result in an event of default under these agreements. These agreements are secured by improvements to our corporate office and research facility, certain financed equipment and a collateral account which, as of December 31, 2006, had an adjusted market value of $5.5 million. Upon an event of default, MIDFA and M&T Bank have the right to declare all amounts outstanding under these credit agreements to be immediately due and payable and may enforce their rights by foreclosing on collateral pledged under these agreements. In addition, upon an event of default MIDFA and M&T Bank could restrict our ability to make additional borrowings under these agreements. Any decision by MIDFA or M&T Bank to enforce any one or more of the foregoing remedies upon an event of default could materially harm our business. The loan agreement and letter of credit agreement also restrict our ability, without MIDFA’s and/or M&T Bank’s consent, to, among other things: • declare dividends or make other distributions on existing stock or create new classes of stock; • change the nature of our business; • incur additional debt; • incur mortgages and pledges upon property owned or acquired; • sell our assets; • engage in mergers or consolidations, or acquire ownership interests of, or all or substantially all of the assets of, another entity; • make loans; and • guarantee indebtedness of any person or entity. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities, which may inhibit our ability to grow our business and generate revenues. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our drug candidates, our business could be materially harmed. We have a number of pending patent applications covering our gene expression technology and select novel compounds. We intend to file United States and foreign patent applications for our new inventions, as well as on improvements we make to our existing proprietary technologies that are important to the development of our business. However, we may not file patent applications in all countries in which we could seek patent protection. We cannot assure you that any patents that may be issued or that may be licensed to us will be enforceable or valid or will not expire prior to the commercialization of our drug candidates, allowing others to more effectively compete with us. Therefore, any patents that we may own in the future or license may not adequately protect our drug candidates or any drugs we market in the future. If we are not able to protect our patent positions, our business could be materially harmed. Issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, court decisions may introduce uncertainty in the enforceability or scope of patents owned by biotechnology companies. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, the enforceability or scope of our future patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we may potentially own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties. Except for patent rights to the composition of matter for AVN944 that we licensed from Vertex, our pending patent applications and granted patents cover compounds in one of the drug development programs that we are actively pursuing. The U.S. patent and foreign patents under which we have licensed rights from Vertex to AVN944 expire beginning on March 20, 2020. Third parties may challenge the validity of our potential patents or other intellectual property rights and could deprive us of valuable rights. If we infringe patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur substantial liability. If a third party legally challenges our future patents or other intellectual property rights that we own or license, we could lose certain of these rights. For example, third parties may challenge the validity of our patent applications and any future issued U.S. or foreign patents through reexaminations, oppositions or other legal proceedings. If successful, a challenge to our intellectual property rights could deprive us of competitive advantages and permit our competitors to use our technology to develop similar drug candidates. Failure to protect our future patents and other proprietary rights may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. We use chip-based microarray technology under a license from a manufacturer. We may not be able to continue to obtain supplies and materials from that manufacturer or obtain suitable substitutes, at commercially reasonable terms, or at all. To the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products or processes, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Third parties may have or obtain valid and enforceable patents or proprietary rights that could block us from developing drug candidates using our technology. Moreover, our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, legal or administrative proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any such proceeding, irrespective of the outcome, we may incur substantial costs, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel may be diverted, which could materially harm our business. 23 Table of Contents Our drug discovery technology is not patented, and the value of our technology and drug candidates could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets. Our AvalonRx® drug discovery technology is not patented. Instead, we rely primarily on trade secrets to protect it. Trade secrets are difficult to maintain. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our, or our collaboration partners’, employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, foreign courts are sometimes less willing than U.S. courts to protect trade secrets. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how related to AvalonRx®, we would not be able to assert or prevent them from doing so and our business could be harmed. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We license patent rights from a third party, Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated. If Vertex does not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. Our license with Vertex gives us rights to third party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. We may also enter into additional licenses to third party intellectual property in the future. At the time we entered into our license with Vertex we did not obtain a formal legal opinion from patent counsel as to the validity of, or freedom to operate under, the patents covered by the license, but relied on our own due diligence, which we believe to be a standard practice in licenses of this kind. Our success will depend in part on the ability and willingness of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications for the intellectual property we have licensed. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Because we must obtain regulatory approval to market our drug candidates in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize our drug candidates. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation by a wide range of authorities. We cannot predict whether regulatory clearance will be obtained for any drug candidate we develop. A pharmaceutical product cannot 24 Table of Contents be marketed in the United States until it has completed rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory clearance process implemented by the FDA. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product, the safety and efficacy data generated from clinical trials, and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Of particular significance are the requirements covering research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. Before commencing clinical trials in humans in the United States, we submitted an IND to the FDA. The IND for AVN944 was accepted by the FDA and we were allowed to test the drug in humans in the United States. The clinical trials for AVN944 and others we may conduct in the future are subject to oversight by IRBs and the FDA and: • must be conducted in conformance with the FDA’s good clinical practices and other applicable regulations; • must meet requirements for IRB oversight; • must meet requirements for informed consent; • are subject to continuing FDA oversight; • may require large numbers of test subjects; and • may be suspended by us or the FDA at any time, particularly if it is believed that the subjects participating in these trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the IND or the conduct of these trials. Before receiving FDA clearance to market a drug, we must demonstrate the safety, tolerability, efficacy, and dosage of the drug in the patient population intended to be treated, as well as the ability to produce the drug in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements. Delays, refusal by the FDA to accept an application or rejections of regulatory approval may be encountered for a number of reasons: additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of drug development, incomplete or inconclusive clinical trials, differing interpretations of the clinical data, or an FDA review process that results in a request for additional data or limitations on product labeling. Failure to comply with applicable FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or injunction, as well as other regulatory action against our potential products or us. Outside the United States, our ability to market a drug candidate is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. This foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA clearance described above. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, we will be subject to ongoing government regulation. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, our products will be subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record keeping requirements, submitting periodic reports to the FDA, reporting of any adverse experiences with the product, and complying with drug sampling and distribution requirements. In addition, updated safety and efficacy information must be maintained and provided to the FDA. We or our collaborative partners must comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling, including the prohibition against promoting any non-FDA approved or “off-label” indications of products. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant enforcement action by the FDA, including warning letters, orders to pull the promotional materials, and substantial fines. Also, quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval. Drug and biologics manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their facilities and products manufactured annually with the FDA and certain state agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA to assess compliance with cGMP regulations. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMPs and other 25 Table of Contents aspects of regulatory compliance. Future FDA inspections may identify compliance issues at our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution or require substantial resources to correct. In addition, following FDA approval of a product, discovery of problems with a product or the failure to comply with requirements may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer, or holder of an approved marketing application, including withdrawal or recall of the product from the market or other voluntary or FDA-initiated action that could delay or prevent further marketing. Newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may require changes to a product’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications. Also, the FDA may require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the product’s safety or efficacy, including additional clinical studies, known as Phase IV trials, to evaluate long-term effects. Compliance with post-marketing regulation may be time-consuming and costly and could delay or prevent us from generating revenue from the commercialization of our drug candidates. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs which may affect our ability or the time we require to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We have only limited experience in preparing and submitting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain timely regulatory approval, if we receive such approval at all. We will not be able to commercialize AVN944, or any of our drug candidates, until we obtain FDA approval in the United States or approval by comparable authorities in other countries. Third parties engaged to produce our drug candidates for clinical use may fail to comply with regulatory requirements, which could delay clinical trials. We intend to rely on third parties to produce drug candidates for clinical use. All facilities and manufacturing processes used by third parties to produce our drug candidates for clinical use in the United States must conform with cGMPs. These facilities and practices are subject to periodic regulatory inspections to ensure compliance with cGMP requirements. Their failure to comply with applicable regulations could extend, delay, or cause the termination of clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates. Healthcare reform and cost control initiatives by third-party payors could reduce the prices that can be charged for drugs, which could limit the commercial success of our drug candidates. The commercial success of our drug candidates will depend significantly on the availability of reimbursement to the patient from third party payors, such as the government and private insurance plans. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, signed into law in 2003, added prescription drug coverage to Medicare beginning in 2006 and added a voluntary drug discount card for Medicare beneficiaries. Other governmental and private payer initiatives, however, may limit reimbursement for drugs. Capitated payment systems and other cost containment systems are now widely used by public and private payers and have caused hospitals and health maintenance organizations to be more cost-conscious in their treatment decisions, including decisions regarding the medicines to be made available to their patients. Future legislation may limit the prices that can be charged for drugs we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity and reduce any associated revenue and profits. For example, Congressional action regarding drug reimportation into the United States may affect the pricing of drugs. The Medicare Prescription Drug Plan legislation, which became law in December 2003, requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for drug reimportation from Canada into the United States under some circumstances, including when the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. The Secretary retains the discretion not to implement a drug reimportation plan if he finds that the benefits do not outweigh the costs. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation that would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. If legislation or regulations were passed allowing the reimportation of drugs, they could decrease the price we receive for any products that we may develop, negatively affecting our anticipated revenues and prospects for profitability. In some countries other than the United States, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals are subject to government control. Also, we expect managed care will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price 26 Table of Contents that we or any potential collaborators receive for any of our future products, which could adversely affect our profitability. These initiatives may also have the effect of reducing the resources that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can devote to in-licensing drug candidates and the research and development of new drugs, which could reduce our resulting revenue. We or our future collaborators may not obtain favorable reimbursement rates for our drug candidates. Third party payors, such as government and private insurance plans, frequently require companies to provide predetermined discounts from list prices and are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceuticals and other medical products. For example, federal laws require drug manufacturers to pay specified rebates for medicines reimbursed by Medicaid, to provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain public health service entities and “disproportionate share” hospitals, and to provide minimum discounts off of a defined “non-federal average manufacturer price” for purchases by certain components of the federal government such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense. Our drug candidates may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or be sufficient to allow the sale of our drug candidates on a competitive basis. We or our future collaborators may not be able to negotiate favorable reimbursement rates for our drug candidates. If we or our future collaborators fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our drug candidates by third-party payors, sales of our products would be adversely affected or there may be no commercially viable market for the products. Our operations involve hazardous materials and medical waste and are subject to environmental, health and safety controls and regulations. Any claim relating to our improper handing, storage or disposal of biological and hazardous materials could be time-consuming and costly, and may exceed our resources. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of biological and hazardous materials as well as medical waste. The cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations is substantial. Our business activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, and we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with all material rules and regulations governing the use of hazardous materials and, to date, we have not had any adverse experiences, in the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business involves animal testing and changes in laws, regulations or accepted clinical procedures or social pressures could restrict our use of animals in testing and adversely affect our research and development efforts. Many of the research and development efforts we sponsor involve the use of laboratory animals. Changes in laws, regulations or accepted clinical procedures may adversely affect these research and development efforts. Social pressures that would restrict the use of animals in testing or actions against us or our partners by groups or individuals opposed to testing using animals could also adversely affect these research and development efforts. In addition, preclinical animal studies conducted by us or third parties on our behalf may be subject to the United States Department of Agriculture regulations for certain animal species. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could extend or delay clinical trials conducted for our drug candidates. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Organizational Structure Our stock price is volatile. Since our common stock commenced trading on September 29, 2005, our stock has experienced substantial price volatility. Our stock price may continue to fluctuate for many reasons, including as a result of public announcements regarding the progress of our development efforts, regulatory developments, clinical trial results, the addition or departure of our key personnel, the commencement or termination of collaborations with third parties, and variations in our quarterly operating results. 27 Table of Contents In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors that are beyond our control, including public announcements by other biopharmaceutical companies regarding their business, financial condition or results of operations. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates, as of March 15, 2007, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 5,371,245 shares or approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, have the ability to control the management and affairs of our Company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our Company; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our Company. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: • the requirement that actions by our stockholders by written consent be unanimous; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and • advance notice requirements for nominations to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 Table of Contents 