ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Stockholders should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. Our failure to successfully address the risks and uncertainties described below would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock may decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks or other unknown risks that may affect our business. Risks Related to Our Business Our future performance is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history. We were incorporated in 1999 and we began to implement our current business strategy in the uranium industry in the beginning of 2005. Our operating cash flow needs have been financed primarily through issuances of our common stock. As a result, we have little historical financial and operating information available to help you evaluate our performance. Because the probability of an individual prospect ever having reserves is remote, our properties may not contain any reserves, and any funds spent on exploration may be lost. We have no uranium producing properties and have never generated any revenue from our operations. Because the probability of an individual prospect ever having reserves is uncertain, our properties may not contain any reserves, and any funds spent on exploration may be lost. Notwithstanding our disclosures to Canadian authorities under National Instrument 43-101, we do not know with certainty that economically recoverable uranium exists on any of our properties. We may never discover uranium in commercially exploitable quantities and any identified deposit may never qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) reserve. We will continue to attempt to acquire the surface and mineral rights on lands that we think are geologically favorable or where we have historical information in our possession that indicates uranium mineralization might be present. The exploration and development of mineral deposits involves significant financial and other risks over an extended period of time, which even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. While discovery of a uranium or precious or base metal deposit may result in substantial rewards, few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Major expenditures are required to establish reserves by drilling and to construct mining and processing facilities at a site. Our uranium properties are all at the exploration stage and do not contain any reserves at this time. It is impossible to ensure that the current or proposed exploration programs on properties in which the Company has an interest will result in the delineation of mineral deposits or in profitable commercial operations. Our operations are subject to the hazards and risks normally incident to exploration, development and production of uranium, precious and base metals, any of which could result in damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for such damage. While we may obtain insurance against certain risks, the nature of these risks is such that liabilities could exceed policy limits or could be excluded from coverage. There are also risks against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure. The potential costs which could be associated with any liabilities not covered by insurance, or in excess of insurance coverage, or compliance with applicable laws and regulations may cause substantial delays and require significant capital outlays, adversely affecting our future earnings and competitive position and, potentially our financial viability. 10 We have a limited operating history and have losses which we expect to continue into the future. As a result, we may have to suspend or cease exploration activities. We were incorporated in 1999 and are engaged in the business of mineral exploration. We have not realized any revenue from our operations and have incurred losses since inception. We have a relatively limited exploration history upon which an evaluation of our future success or failure can be made. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon: * our ability to locate a profitable mineral property; * our ability to generate revenues; * our ability to control costs. Based upon current plans, we expect to incur operating losses in future periods. This will happen because there are expenses associated with the research and exploration of our mineral properties plus development costs to produce saleable product. We cannot guarantee we will be successful in generating revenues in the future. Failure to generate revenues may cause us to go out of business. Because some of our officers and directors do not have technical training or experience in exploring for, starting, and operating a mine, we may have to hire qualified personnel. If we can’t locate qualified personnel, we may have to suspend or cease exploration activity. Some, but not all, of our officers and directors have experience with exploring for, starting, and operating a mine. Because some of our officers and directors are inexperienced with exploring for, starting, and operating a mine, we may have to hire qualified persons to perform surveying, exploration, and water management of our properties. Some of our officers and directors have no direct training or experience in these areas and as a result may not be fully aware of many of the specific requirements related to working within the industry. Their decisions and choices would typically take into account standard engineering or managerial approaches mineral exploration companies commonly use. However, our exploration activities, earnings and ultimate financial success could suffer irreparable harm due to certain of management’s decisions. As a result we may have to suspend or cease exploration activities, or any future warranted development activities. Our future profitability will be dependent on uranium prices. Because a significant portion of our anticipated revenues are expected to be derived from the sale of uranium, our net earnings, if any, can be affected by the long- and short-term market price of U3O8. Uranium prices are subject to fluctuation. The price of uranium has been and will continue to be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. With respect to uranium, such factors include the demand for nuclear power, political and economic conditions in uranium producing and consuming countries, uranium supply from secondary sources, uranium production levels and costs of production. Spot prices for U3O8were at $20.00 per pound U3O8 in December 2004, and then, to $35.25 per pound in December 2005 and $72.00 per pound in December 2006. During 2007 the spot price reached a high of $138.00 per pound. The spot price of U3O8was approximately $90.00 per pound in December 2007. The spot price declined during 2008, reaching a low of $44.00 per pound in October. In 2009, the spot price of U3O8had a high of $51.50 and a low of $42.00. In 2010 the spot price had a high of $62.50 and a low of $40.75. In 2011 the spot price had a high of $74.00 and a low of $48.00. The spot price of U3O8 was approximately $52.00 per pound and the long term price was approximately $61.00 per pound in December 2011. 11 Public acceptance of nuclear energy is uncertain. The demand for uranium as a source of energy and growth in that demand is dependent on society’s acceptance of nuclear technology as a means of generating electricity. A major incident at a nuclear power plant anywhere in the world, such as that which occurred at Japan’s Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station in March of 2011, following a major earthquake and tsunami, or an accident relating to the transportation of new or spent nuclear fuel, could negatively impact the continuing public acceptance of nuclear energy and the future prospects for nuclear power generation, which may have a material adverse effect on the nuclear industry and the results of the Company operations and revenues. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation and environmental risks. We are required to comply with applicable environmental protection laws and regulations and permitting requirements, and we anticipate that we will be required to continue to do so in the future. The material laws and regulations within the U.S. that the Company must comply with are the National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA), Atomic Energy Act, Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 (UMTRCA), Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Federal Land Policy Management Act, National Park System Mining Regulations Act, and the State Mined Land Reclamation Acts or State Department of Environmental Quality regulations, as applicable. We are required to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, as amended by UMTRCA, by applying for and maintaining a Source Material license from the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Uranium operations must conform to the terms of such license, which include provisions for protection of human health and the environment from endangerment due to radioactive materials. The license encompasses protective measures consistent with the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. We intend to utilize specific employees and consultants in order to comply with and maintain our compliance with the above laws and regulations. The uranium industry is subject not only to the worker health and safety and environmental risks associated with all mining businesses, but also to additional risks uniquely associated with uranium mining and processing. The possibility of more stringent regulations exists in the areas of worker health and safety, the disposition of wastes, the decommissioning and reclamation of exploration and in-situ recovery mining sites, and other environmental matters, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the costs or the viability of a particular project. We cannot predict what environmental legislation, regulation or policy will be enacted or adopted in the future or how future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation, generally, is toward stricter standards and this trend is likely to continue in the future. This recent trend includes, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, mine reclamation, waste handling and disposal, the protection of certain species and the preservation of certain lands. These regulations may require the acquisition of permits or other authorizations for certain activities. These laws and regulations may also limit or prohibit activities on certain lands. Compliance with more stringent laws and regulations, as well as potentially more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may necessitate significant capital outlays, may materially affect our results of operations and business, or may cause material changes or delays in our intended activities. Our operations may require additional analysis in the future including environmental and social impact and other related studies. Certain activities require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers, and employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to continue operations or exploration of properties or, if feasible, to commence development, construction or operation of mining facilities at such properties at economically justifiable costs. 12 We intend to extract uranium from our properties using the in-situ recovery mining process which may not be successful. We intend to extract uranium from our properties using in-situ recovery mining, which is suitable for extraction of certain types of uranium deposits. This process requires in-situ recovery mining equipment and trained personnel. Competition and unforeseen limited sources of supplies in the industry could result in occasional spot shortages of supplies, and certain equipment such as drilling rigs and other equipment that we might need to conduct exploration and, if warranted, development. We will attempt to locate additional products, equipment and materials as needed. If we cannot find the products and equipment we need, we will have to suspend our exploration and, if warranted, development plans until we do find the products and equipment we need. We face risks related to exploration and development, if warranted, on our properties. Our level of profitability, if any, in future years will depend to a great degree on uranium prices and whether any of our exploration stage properties can be brought into production. The exploration for and development of mineral deposits involves significant risks. It is impossible to ensure that the current and future exploration programs and/or feasibility studies on our existing properties will establish reserves. Whether a uranium ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; uranium prices, which cannot be predicted and which have been highly volatile in the past; mining, processing and transportation costs; perceived levels of political risk and the willingness of lenders and investors to provide project financing; labor costs and possible labor strikes; and governmental regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting materials, foreign exchange, environmental protection, employment, worker safety, transportation, and reclamation and closure obligations. We are subject to the risks normally encountered in the mining industry, such as: the discovery of unusual or unexpected geological formations; accidental fires, floods, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other natural disasters; unplanned power outages and water shortages; controlling water and other similar mining hazards; operating labor disruptions and labor disputes; the ability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment, or labor; our liability for pollution or other hazards; and other known and unknown risks involved in the conduct of exploration, the operation of mines and the market for uranium. The development of mineral properties is affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: the cost of operations, variations in the grade of ore, fluctuations in metal markets, costs of extraction and processing equipment, availability of equipment and labor, labor costs and possible labor strikes, and government regulations, including without limitation, regulations relating to taxes, royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, foreign exchange, employment, worker safety, transportation, and environmental protection. Depending on the price of uranium, we may determine that it is impractical to commence, or, if commenced, continue, commercial production. Such a decision would negatively affect our profits and may affect the value of your investment. Because we may be unable to meet property payment obligations or be able to acquire or maintain necessary mining licenses, we may lose interests in our exploration properties. The agreements pursuant to which we acquired our interests in some of our properties provide that we must make a series of cash payments over certain time periods, expend certain minimum amounts on the exploration of the properties or contribute our share of ongoing expenditures. If we fail to make such payments or expenditures in a timely fashion, we may lose our interest in those properties. Further, even if we do complete exploration activities, we may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses to conduct mining operations on the properties, and thus would realize no benefit from our exploration activities on the properties. 13 Our mineral properties may be subject to defects in title. We own, lease, or have under option, mining claims, mineral claims or concessions and fee mineral leases which constitute our property holdings. The ownership and validity or title of unpatented mining claims and concessions are often uncertain and may be contested. We also may not have, or may not be able to obtain, all necessary surface rights to develop a property. We have not conducted title research in relation to many of our mining claims and concessions to ensure clean title. We cannot guarantee that title to our properties will not be challenged. Title insurance is generally not available for mineral properties and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure claim to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. We may incur significant costs related to defending the title to our properties. A successful claim contesting our title to a property may cause us to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property or lose our rights to explore and, if warranted, develop that property. This could result in us not being compensated for our prior expenditures relating to the property. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert our management's time from ongoing exploration and development programs. Because we may be unable to secure access rights, we may be unable to explore and/or develop our properties. Our mineral rights do not always include rights of access or use of the surface of lands. We require agreements with land owners for these rights which may be difficult to obtain and which may require cash payments. Because mineral exploration and development activities are inherently risky, we may be exposed to environmental liabilities. The business of mineral exploration and extraction involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into production. At present, none of our properties has a known body of commercial ore. Unusual or unexpected formations, formation pressures, fires, power outages, labor disruptions, flooding, explosions and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor are other risks involved in extraction operations and the conduct of exploration programs. Although we intend to carry liability insurance with respect to our mineral exploration operations, we may become subject to liability for damage to life and property, environmental damage or hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure. Previous mining operations may have caused environmental damage at certain of our properties. It may be difficult or impossible to assess the extent to which such damage was caused by us or by the activities of previous operators, in which case, any indemnities and exemptions from liability may be ineffective. If any of our properties is found to have commercial quantities of ore, we would be subject to additional risks respecting any development and production activities. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore. Because we have not put a mineral deposit into production before, we may have to acquire outside expertise. If we are unable to acquire such expertise we may be unable to put our properties into production. Our Board of Directors includes seven individuals, two of whom are in operational management, that have technical or financial experience in placing mining projects into production. However, we may also be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreements with other companies that can provide such expertise. We have contracted an experienced uranium producer to strip, elute, precipitate and drum our uranium resins to produce dried uranium concentrate for sale. The success of processing our uranium resins depends upon the contractor’s ability to provide services in accordance with the terms of our agreement. 14 Acquisitions and integration issues may expose us to additional risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business strategy includes making targeted acquisitions. Any acquisition that we make may be of a significant size, may change the scale of our business and operations, and may expose us to new geographic, political, operating, financial and geological risks. The success of our acquisition activities depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for any such acquisition and integrate the acquired operations successfully with our own. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, there may be significant decreases in commodity prices after we have committed to complete the transaction and have established the purchase price or exchange ratio; a material ore body may prove to be below expectations; we may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realizing anticipated synergies and maximizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise and maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls across the organization; the integration of the acquired business or assets may disrupt our ongoing business and our relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and contractors; and the acquired business or assets may have unknown liabilities which may be significant. If we choose to use equity securities as consideration for such an acquisition, existing stockholders may suffer dilution. Alternatively, we may choose to finance any such acquisition with our existing resources. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. The mining industry is highly competitive. The business of the acquisition, exploration, and development of uranium properties is intensely competitive. We will be required to compete, in the future, directly with other corporations that may have better access to potential uranium resources, more developed infrastructure, more available capital, and better access to necessary financing, and more knowledgeable and available employees than us. We may encounter competition in acquiring uranium properties, hiring mining professionals, obtaining mining resources, such as manpower, drill rigs, and other mining equipment. Such competitors could outbid us for potential projects or produce minerals at lower costs. Increased competition could also affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for uranium exploration in the future. Risks Related to Corporate and Financial Structure We are dependent upon key management employees. The success of our operations will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including (i) our ability to enter into strategic alliances through a combination of one or more joint ventures, mergers or acquisition transactions; and (ii) our ability to attract and retain additional key personnel in sales, marketing, technical support and finance. We currently depend upon our management employees to seek out and form strategic alliances and find and retain additional employees. There can be no assurance of success with any or all of these factors on which our operations will depend. We have relied and may continue to rely, upon consultants and others for operating expertise. Our growth will require new personnel, which we will be required to recruit, hire, train and retain. We expect significant growth in the number of our employees if we determine that a mine at any of our properties is commercially feasible, we are able to raise sufficient funding and we elect to develop the property. This growth will place substantial demands on us and our management. Our ability to assimilate new personnel will be critical to our performance. We will be required to recruit additional personnel and to train, motivate and manage employees. We will also have to adopt and implement new systems in all aspects of our operations. This will be particularly critical in the event we decide not to use contract miners at any of our properties. We have no assurance that we will be able to recruit the personnel required to execute our programs or to manage these changes successfully. 15 Legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may make it difficult for us to retain or attract officers and directors. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified officers, directors and members of board committees required to provide for our effective management as a result of the recent and currently proposed changes in the rules and regulations which govern publicly-held companies. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has resulted in a series of rules and regulations by the Securities and Exchange Commission that increased responsibilities and liabilities of directors and executive officers. The increased personal risk associated with these changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting these roles. Stock market price and volume volatility. The market for our common stock may be highly volatile for reasons both related to the performance of the Company or events pertaining to the industry (i.e. mineral price fluctuation/high production costs/accidents) as well as factors unrelated to the Company or its industry. In particular, market demand for uranium fluctuates from one business cycle to the next, resulting in change of demand for the mineral and an attendant change in the price for the mineral. Our common stock can be expected to be subject to volatility in both price and volume arising from market expectations, announcements and press releases regarding our business, and changes in estimates and evaluations by securities analysts or other events or factors. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small-capitalization companies, have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values, or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, the price of our common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. Granting of options may negatively impact the value of our shares of common stock. Because the success of the Company is highly dependent upon its respective employees, we may in the future grant to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants, options to purchase shares of our common stock as non-cash incentives. Those options may be granted at exercise prices equal to market prices at times when the public market is depressed. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the other stockholders of the Company may be diluted. The issuance of additional shares of common stock may negatively impact the trading price of our shares of common stock. We have issued equity securities in the past and may continue to issue equity securities to finance our activities in the future, including to finance future acquisitions, or as consideration for acquisitions of businesses or assets. In addition, outstanding options and warrants to purchase shares of common stock may be exercised, resulting in the issuance of additional shares of common stock. The issuance by us of additional shares of common stock would result in dilution to our stockholders, and even the perception that such an issuance may occur could have a negative impact on the trading price of our shares of common stock. The value of an investment in our shares of common stock could decline substantially. The market price for shares of our common stock has been and can be expected to remain highly volatile. As a result, shareholders might experience an extreme variation in the value of their holdings. Trading prices of many exploration stage companies, including us, have experienced price and volume fluctuations which have, at times, been seemingly unrelated to the performance of the companies whose securities were affected. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid a dividend to our shareholders, and we intend to retain our cash for the continued development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, a return on investment will be solely determined by the ability to sell shares in a secondary market. 16 We depend on our ability to successfully access the capital and financial markets. Any inability to access the capital or financial markets may limit our ability to execute our business plan or pursue investments that we may rely on for future growth. We rely on access to long-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital and operating requirements. If we are not able to access financial markets at competitive rates, our ability to implement our business plan and strategy may be affected. Certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. Such market disruptions could result from: adverse economic conditions; adverse general capital market conditions; poor performance and health of the uranium industry in general; bankruptcy or financial distress of unrelated uranium companies or marketers; significant decrease in the demand for uranium; adverse regulatory actions that affect our exploration and development plans; and terrorist attacks on our potential customers. Market events and conditions, including disruptions in the U.S. and international credit markets and other financial systems and the deterioration of the U.S. and global economic conditions, could, among other things, impede access to capital or increase the cost of capital, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our working capital and other capital requirements. Since 2008 U.S. credit markets have experienced serious disruption due to government regulation, government inaction, deterioration in residential property values, defaults and delinquencies in the residential mortgage market (particularly, subprime and non-prime mortgages) and a decline in the credit quality of mortgage backed securities. These problems led to a loss of confidence in the broader U.S. and global credit and financial markets and resulting in the collapse of, and government intervention in, major banks, financial institutions and insurers and creating a climate of greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Various actions by the U.S. and foreign governments are targeting general conditions of the capital markets, financial instruments, banks, investment banks, insurers and other financial institutions to stabilize and improve the broader credit and stock markets. The general economic indicators, including low consumer sentiment, high unemployment and low economic growth indicate continued economic uncertainty. These disruptions in the current credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase our cost of obtaining, capital and financing for our operations. Our access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 