Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS A large percentage of our revenues are derived from sales to a limited number of customers and our business will suffer if sales to these customers decline. A significant portion of our revenues historically have been derived from a limited number of customers. Four customers -- Beijing Hyundai, Shenyang AeroSpace Mitsubishi, Dongfeng YueDa Kia Motors Co., Ltd. and Harbin Dongan -- accounted for approximately 52% of our sales in 2006. Any significant reduction in demand for vehicles manufactured by any of these major customers and any decrease in their demand for our products could harm our sales and business operations. The loss of one or more of these customers could damage our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues will decrease if there is less demand for vehicles in which our products are installed. We sell our products primarily to manufacturers of sedans and passenger vehicles. If sales of sedans and passenger vehicles decrease, demand for our products and our revenues will decrease accordingly. If the pricing and terms on which we purchase raw materials and component parts from our suppliers unfavorably change, we may become unable to produce and market our products on favorable terms. We purchase the raw materials and component parts which we use to manufacture our products from over 40 suppliers located primarily in Asia. The raw materials that we use are mainly divided into four categories: metal parts, semiconductors, chemicals and packaging materials. Our primary vendors and suppliers include YingKou Die-Casting Co., Ltd., Dong Woo, S.W.T., JinZhou ChangZe Machinery Plant, JinZhou HanHua Electrical Equipment Co., Ltd. and TianJin Showa Enamelled Wire Co. Ltd. If these or any other important suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with such raw materials and/or component parts on terms favorable to us, we may be unable to produce certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and revenue. If the prices of raw materials needed for our products increase, and we cannot pass these price increases on to our customers, our profit margins and operating results will suffer. If our customers and/or the ultimate consumers of the vehicles, which use our products successfully, assert product liability claims against us due to defects in our products, our operating results may suffer and our reputation may be harmed. Our products are used primarily on sedans and passenger vehicles. Significant property damage, personal injuries and even death can result from malfunctioning vehicles. If our products are not properly designed, built or installed and/or if people are injured because of our products, we could be subject to claims for damages based on theories of product liability and other legal theories. The costs and resources to defend such claims could be substantial and, if such claims are successful, we could be responsible for paying some or all of the damages. We do not have product liability insurance. The publicity surrounding these sorts of claims is also likely damage our reputation, regardless of whether such claims are successful. Any of these consequences resulting from defects in our products would hurt our operating results and stockholder value. 11 If our credit provider were to default on the credit facility agreement, our liquidity and business operation could be negatively affected. We rely partially on credit facilities provided by various banks to provide the necessary liquidity to maintain our business operations. If the banks were to default on any of the credit facility agreements, it could have a negative impact on our liquidity, which in turn may damage our business operations and financial results. We face strong competition from both Chinese and international competitors in the auto parts manufacturing industry. We compete worldwide with a number of other global and PRC-based manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours. Price, quality, and technological innovation are the primary elements of competition. Our main competitors are located in China, including Shanghai Valeo Automotive Electrical Systems Co. Ltd, and Hubei Shendian Auto Motor Co. Ltd. (a joint venture of Hubei Shendian and RAMY (U.S.). After China lifted its protections to infant industries, we have seen an increasing competition from multinational auto parts manufacturers and expect this trend to continue. Currently, our primary international competitors include VALEO (France), BOSCH (German), RAMY (U.S.), Mitsubishi Motor (Japan) and Denso (Japan). We are not as large as a number of our competitors and do not have the brand recognition or substantial financial or other resources of some of our competitors. Our business may adversely change due to the cyclical nature of the vehicular markets we serve. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on the varying conditions in the automotive markets that we serve. The volume of automotive production in Asia, North America, Europe and the rest of the world has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in demand for our products. These fluctuations in demand in the automotive industry often are in response to overall economic conditions, but also are a reaction to certain external factors, such as changes in interest rate levels, vehicle manufacturer incentive programs, changes in fuel costs, consumer spending and confidence and environmental issues. If the automotive market experiences a downturn due to poor overall economic conditions or adverse changes in the external influences upon our business, our results of operations and business will suffer. Our products are subject to recall for performance related issues. Like many other participants in the automotive industry, we are at risk for product recall costs. As of December 31, 2006, our products have not been the subject of an open recall. Product recall costs are costs incurred when, either voluntarily or involuntarily, a product is recalled through a formal campaign to solicit the return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance issue. Costs typically include the cost of the product, part or component being replaced, customer cost of the recall and labor to remove and replace the defective part or component. When a recall decision is made, we estimate the cost of the recall and record a charge to earnings in that period. In making this estimate, judgment is required as to the quantity or volume to be recalled, the total cost of the recall campaign, the ultimate negotiated sharing of the cost between us and the customer and, in some cases, the extent to which the supplier of the part or component will share in the recall cost. As a result, these estimates are subject to change. Excessive recall costs or our failure to adequately estimate these costs may negatively affect our operating results. Our results of operation could be adversely affected by high price of gasoline. The demand for our products depends, in large part, on the demand from the automobile markets we serve and on other economic metrics, such as gasoline prices, which influence industry demand. A prolonged increase in the market price of gasoline and other fuel products may result in less disposable income of consumers and lower spending by consumers on automobiles and automobile parts. This could result in a decreased demand for our products, which could negatively affect our results of operations. On the other hand, an increase in the price for gasoline could also lead to an increased demand for small engine automobiles, the main automobile sector we serve, and therefore, benefit us. During 2006 gasoline prices reached unprecedently high levels in the United States but have stabilized somewhat towards the end of 2006. It is difficult to predict the precise long term economic effects of high gasoline prices on the economy, the automobile industry generally or our results of operations. 12 We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property and third parties may claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property. As part of our business strategy, we intend to accelerate our investment in new products and process technologies in an effort to strengthen and differentiate our product portfolio. As a result, we believe that the protection of our intellectual property will become increasingly important to our business. Currently, Wonder Auto holds 5 patents and has 32 pending patent applications. We will continue to rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to provide protection in this regard, but this protection might be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. Conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. In either case, litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and whether or not we are ultimately successful, the litigation could hurt our business and financial condition. Expansion of our business may strain our management and operational infrastructure and impede our ability to meet any increased demand for our automotive electrical component products. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations by meeting the anticipated growth in demand for existing products, and by introducing new product offerings. Our planned growth includes the construction of new production lines to be put into operation over the next twelve months. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. Our business growth also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; and · rapid technological change. To accommodate this growth and compete effectively, we may need to obtain additional funding to improve information systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage existing and additional employees. Funding may not be available in a sufficient amount or on favorable terms, if at all. If we are not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, our operating results could suffer. We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Qingjie Zhao, our sole director, Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary, Yuncong Ma, our Chief Operating Officer, Seuk Jun Kim, our Vice President of Research and Development, Meirong Yuan, our Chief Financial Officer, Yuguo Zhao, our Vice President of Sales and Yongdong Liu, our Vice President of Production. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by turnover in the future. Mr. Qingjie Zhao’s association with other businesses could impede his ability to devote ample time to our business and could pose conflicts of interest. Mr. Qingjie Zhao, our CEO, President, Secretary, director and beneficial owner of 61.05% of our common stock, serves as an executive director and is a 17% owner of China Wonder Limited, a company listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange (which is principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of specialty packaging machinery to the Chinese pharmaceutical market), and an executive director and 10.96% owner of Jinheng Holdings (which is principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of automotive airbag safety systems in China). As a result, conflicts of interest may arise from time to time. We will attempt to resolve any such conflicts of interest in our favor. Our officers and directors are accountable to us and our shareholders as fiduciaries, which requires that such officers and directors exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. However, their existing responsibilities to other entities may limit the amount of time they can spend on our affairs. Mr. Zhao devotes approximately 85% of his business time to the affairs of Wonder Auto and approximately 15% of his business time to the affairs of other companies. Mr. Zhao’s decision-making responsibilities for these three companies are similar in the areas of public relations, management of human resources, risk management and strategic planning. Mr. Zhao works about 75 hours per week altogether. 13 We do not have any independent directors and there is no assurance that any independent directors will be appointed or what their qualifications may be if they are appointed. We currently have only one director, Qingjie Zhao, who is also our CEO, President, Secretary and the beneficial owner of 61.05% of our common stock. Therefore, we do not have any independent directors. We plan to appoint a number of independent directors, which will constitute a majority of our board of directors before our common stock, is listed on a national securities exchange or Nasdaq, but we may not be able to identify independent directors qualified to be on our board. We bear the risk of loss in shipment of our products and have no insurance to cover such loss. Under the shipping terms of our standard customer contracts, we bear the risk of loss in shipment of our products. We do not insure this risk. While we believe that the shipping companies that we use carry adequate insurance or are sufficiently solvent to cover any loss in shipment, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately reimbursed upon the loss of a significant shipment of our products. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or SOX 404, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. We were not subject to these requirements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006; accordingly, we have not evaluated our internal control systems in order to allow our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls as required by these requirements of SOX 404. Under current law, we will be subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends. Wonder Auto Technology, Inc. has no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us due to restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. 14 Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: · Level of government involvement in the economy; · Control of foreign exchange; · Methods of allocating resources; · Balance of payments position; · International trade restrictions; and · International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. For example, state-owned enterprises still constitute a large portion of the Chinese economy, and weak corporate governance traditions and a lack of flexible currency exchange policy continue to persist. Because of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China and not of the U.S., and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Only recently has China permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. 15 Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business profitably in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi and U.S. Dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations implemented on September 8, 2006. On September 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or “MOFCOM,” together with several other government agencies, promulgated a comprehensive set of regulations governing the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside of the PRC. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the governmental agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Governmental approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the governmental agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government now can exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to these new regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The new regulations allow PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to MOFCOM and the other government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulations also limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulations may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms, which satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders’ economic interests and we may not be able to negotiate a business combination transaction on terms favorable to our stockholders. 16 The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi; the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Our strategy to procure steel supply is to diversify our suppliers both in the PRC and overseas. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against Renminbi, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increase on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, since our sales to international customers grew rapidly, we are subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Mr. Qingjie Zhao, our sole director, CEO, President and Secretary, is the beneficial owner of approximately 61.05% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, he possesses significant influence, giving him the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and to authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change- in-control. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes the Board of Directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent the stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 