Risk Factors Risks Relating to our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business, and pay interest of and principal on our indebtedness. At December 31, 2006, Grupo TMM’s total debt (excluding the securitization facility) amounted to $169.0 million, which includes $27.6 million of short-term debt, including $1.8 million of interest, and also $141.4 million of long-term debt. At March 31, 2007, we had $167.7 million total indebtedness (excluding the securitization facility), which includes $32.4 million of short-term debt, including $1.7 million of interest, and also $135.3 million of long-term debt. In addition, at December 31, 2006, Grupo TMM’s balance due under its securitization facility with Deutsche Bank AG (the “Securitization Facility”) was $189.3 million, not including previously paid discounts and transaction costs of $7.6 million, but including $16.7 million of short-term debt, which includes $1.8 million of interest, and $180.2 million of long-term. At March 31, 2007, we had $186.0 million not including previously paid discounts and transaction costs of $7.2 million. This included $17.1 million of short-term debt, $1.7 million of interest, and $176.1 million of long-term debt. We are a highly leveraged company and our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • limiting cash flow available for capital expenditures, acquisitions, working capital and other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing debt; • increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in economic or industry conditions; • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because future borrowings may be at interest rates that are higher than current rates, which could result in higher interest expenses; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competitive and other changes in our business; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and greater operating and financing flexibility than we do; • limiting our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long term best interest as a result of restrictive covenants contained in our loan facilities and in our Securitization Facility in the original amount of $200 million; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional money to fund our working capital and capital expenditures or to refinance our existing indebtedness, or to enable us to fund the acquisitions contemplated in our business plan. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon future operating performance, including the ability to increase revenues significantly and control expenses. Future operating performance depends upon various factors, including prevailing economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors that are beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness we may default under our various debt financing facilities. If we default under any such facility, the relevant lender or lenders could then take action to foreclose against any collateral securing the payment of such facility. The proceeds from the $40.0 million VAT Escrow Note (See Item 3. Selected Financial Data) have been pledged to secure the repayment of our Securitization Facility, and substantially all of our shipping assets have been pledged to secure our obligations under our various vessel financing facilities. Grupo TMM is primarily a holding company and depends upon funds received from its operating subsidiaries to make payments on its indebtedness. Grupo TMM is primarily a holding company and conducts the majority of its operations, and holds a substantial portion of its operating assets, through numerous direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a result, Grupo TMM relies on income from dividends and fees related to administrative services provided to its operating subsidiaries for its Table of Contents 9 operating income, including the funds necessary to service its indebtedness. In addition, we have pledged the stock of certain of our subsidiaries and the proceeds from the $40.0 million VAT Escrow Note to secure the repayment of our Securitization Facility. Under Mexican law, profits of Grupo TMM’s subsidiaries may only be distributed upon approval by such subsidiaries’ shareholders, and no profits may be distributed by its subsidiaries to Grupo TMM until all losses incurred in prior fiscal years have been offset against any sub-account of Grupo TMM’s capital or net worth account. In addition, at least 5% of profits must be separated to create a reserve (fondo de reserva) until such reserve is equal to 20% of the aggregate value of such subsidiary’s capital stock (as calculated based on the actual nominal subscription price received by such subsidiary for all issued shares that are outstanding at the time). There is no restriction under Mexican law upon Grupo TMM’s subsidiaries remitting funds to it in the form of loans or advances in the ordinary course of business, except to the extent that such loans or advances would result in the insolvency of its subsidiaries, or for its subsidiaries to pay to it fees or other amounts for services. The extent that Grupo TMM relies on dividends or other distributions from subsidiaries that it does not wholly own, Grupo TMM will only be entitled to a pro rata share of the dividends or other distributions provided by such subsidiaries. Restrictive covenants in our financing agreements, including the Securitization Facility and our ship financings, may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our Securitization Facility and agreements for our ship financings contain a number of restrictive covenants and any additional financing arrangements we enter into may contain additional restrictive covenants. These covenants restrict or prohibit many actions, including our ability, or that of our subsidiaries, to, among others: • incur additional indebtedness; • create or suffer to exist liens; • make prepayments of particular indebtedness; • make certain restricted payments, including the payment of dividends; • make certain investments; • engage in certain transactions with shareholders and affiliates; • use assets as security in other transactions; • issue guarantees; • sell assets; and • engage in certain mergers and consolidations or in sale-leaseback transactions. If we fail to comply with these and other restrictive covenants, our obligation to repay our indebtedness may be accelerated. If we cannot pay the amounts due on the Securitzation Facility, or under one or more of our vessel financing facilities, the relevant lender or lenders could then take action to foreclose against any collateral securing the payment of such facility or facilities. Most of our shipping assets have been pledged to secure our obligations under our various vessel financing facilities. As of December 31, 2006, we did not meet certain financial ratios contained in our vessel financings, resulting in an event of default under these facilities. Although all of the relevant lenders waived such default through September 30, 2007, there is no guaranty we will be able to cure such defaults prior to the expiration of the relevant waivers. We have to service our dollar denominated debt with revenues generated in Mexican pesos or other currencies, as we do not generate sufficient revenue in dollars from our operations to service all of our dollar denominated debt. This could adversely affect our ability to service our debt in the event of a devaluation or depreciation in the value of the Mexican peso. As of March 31, 2007, approximately 99.3% of our debt was denominated in Dollars. This debt, however, must be serviced by funds generated by our subsidiaries. As of the date of this Annual Report, we do not generate Table of Contents 10 sufficient revenue in Dollars from our operations to service all of our Dollar denominated debt. Consequently, we have to use revenues generated in Mexican Pesos to service our Dollar denominated debt. A devaluation or depreciation in the value of the Mexican Peso, compared to the Dollar, could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. During 2006, the Mexican Peso depreciated approximately 1.7% against the Dollar. Fluctuations in the Mexican Peso / Dollar exchange rate could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of Mexican imports and exports, negatively impacting results on some of our businesses. Although a decrease in the level of exports may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. Future developments in U.S.-Mexican trade beyond our control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities, we carry. Risks Relating to our Business Uncertainties relating to our financial condition in our recent past and other factors raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and could have resulted in our dissolution under Mexican Corporate Law. In our audited report for the year ended December 31, 2004, our independent auditors expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” The report observes that in 2004 (i) the Company incurred a net loss of $102,547 and (ii) the Company had an accumulated deficit of $170,517. Under Mexican law, when a company has accumulated losses in excess of two-thirds of its capital stock, any third party with legal interest may request the corresponding judicial authorities to declare the dissolution of the company. This situation no longer existed in 2005 when the Company obtained enough net income to absorb all accumulated losses. However, in our audited report for the period ended December 31, 2006, our independent auditors indicated that a substantial doubt exists as to our continuation as a going concern because we have sustained substantial losses from continuing operations during the past five years. Although Grupo TMM reduced its debt and financial expense in a material way in 2005 and 2006, and improved its income on transportation, it experienced a net operating loss in 2006. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate sufficient profits and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources. We have had a history of net losses. If we are unable to maintain profitability and generate positive cash flow, we may not be able to continue operations. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, our net income was $70.4 million and $175.5 million, respectively, and resulting mostly from our sale of Grupo TFM to KCS (See “Disposition of Grupo TMM’s Interest in Grupo TFM to KCS”). If we had not sold Grupo TFM to KCS, we may have experienced losses in 2005 and 2006. In addition, during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, we incurred a net loss of $102.5 and $86.7 million, respectively. If we are unable to maintain profitability and generate positive cash flow, we may not be able to continue our operations. If our time charter arrangements are terminated or expire, our business could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, we had two product tanker vessels on bareboat charter and two vessels on time-charter to PEMEX Refinación (“PER”), and seventeen offshore supply vessels on time charter to Pemex Exploración y Producción (“PEP”). PER and PEP are subsidiaries of Petroleos Mexicanos, the national oil company of Mexico (“PEMEX”). In addition, in 2006 we entered into seven offshore supply vessel chartering agreements with private operators with time periods ranging from one to two years. In the event that our time-charter arrangements are terminated or expire without being renewed, we will be required to seek new bareboat or time-charter arrangements for these vessels. We cannot be sure that bareboat or time-charters will be available for the vessels following termination or expiration, or that bareboat or time-charter rates in effect at the time of such termination or expiration will be comparable to those in effect under the existing time-charters or in the present market. In the event that bareboat or time-charters are not available on terms acceptable to us, we may employ those vessels in the spot market. Because charter rates in the spot market are subject to greater fluctuation than longer dated bareboat or time-charter rates, any failure to maintain existing, or enter into comparable, charter arrangements could adversely affect our operating results. Table of Contents 11 Our results from operations are dependent on fuel expenses. Our operations consume significant amounts of energy and fuel, the cost of which has significantly increased worldwide in recent years. We currently meet, and expect to continue to meet, our fuel requirements almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from PEMEX, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel, maritime diesel oil and bunker fuel in Mexico. If we are unable to acquire diesel fuel from PEMEX on acceptable terms, our operations could be adversely affected. In addition, instability caused by imbalances in the worldwide supply and demand of oil may result in continuing increases in fuel prices and availability. Our fuel expense represents a significant portion of our operating expenses, and there may be increases in the price of fuel that cannot be hedged or transferred to the final user of our transportation services. We cannot assure you that our operations would not be materially adversely affected in the future if prevailing conditions remain for a long period of time or if energy and fuel costs continue to increase. Downturns in the U.S. economy or in trade between the United States and Mexico would likely have adverse effects on our business and results of operations. The level and timing of our business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of U.S.-Mexican trade and the effects of NAFTA on such trade. Downturns in the U.S. or Mexican economy or in trade between the United States and Mexico would likely have adverse effects on our business and results of operations. Our business of logistics and transportation of products traded between Mexico and the United States depends on the U.S. and Mexican markets for these products, the relative position of Mexico and the United States in these markets at any given time and tariffs or other barriers to trade. Our revenues were affected by the downturn in the U.S. economy in 2003. However, the U.S. economy started to reflect a recovery in the third quarter of 2003, and showed signs of continued improvement in 2004. In 2005 and 2006, both U.S and Mexican economies maintained their improvements achieved during 2004, growing at moderate rates. Any future downturn in the U.S. economy could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to meet our debt service obligations as described above. We may be unable to successfully expand our business. Future growth of our businesses will depend on a number of factors, including: • the continued identification, evaluation and participation in niche markets; • the identification of joint venture opportunities or acquisition candidates; • our ability to enter into acquisitions on favorable terms; • our ability to finance any expansion of our business; • our ability to hire and train qualified personnel, and to maintain our existing managerial base; • the successful integration of any acquired businesses with our existing operations; and • our ability to manage expansion effectively and to obtain required financing. In order to maintain and improve operating results from new businesses, as well as our existing businesses, we will be required to manage our growth and expansion effectively. However, the management of new businesses involves numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the operations and services of the new businesses, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and the disadvantage of entering markets in which we may have no or limited direct or prior experience. Our failure to effectively manage our business could preclude our ability to expand our business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Significant competition could adversely affect our future financial performance. Certain of our business segments face significant competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our international parcel transportation services, our coastwise product tanker business, and our offshore vessel services rendered in the Gulf of Mexico have faced significant competition, mainly from U.S. and other international shipping companies acting directly or through a Mexican intermediary. In our logistics operations division, our trucking transport and automotive logistics services have faced intense competition, including price competition, from a large number of Mexican, U.S. and international trucking lines and logistics companies. We Table of Contents 12 cannot assure you that we will not lose business in the future due to our inability to respond to competitive pressures by decreasing our prices without adversely affecting our gross margins and operational results. Downturns in certain cyclical industries in which our customers operate could have adverse effects on our results of operations. The shipping, transportation and logistics industries are highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. Although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market segment that may influence operating results. Some of our customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas and automotive sectors. Any downturn in these sectors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Also, some of the products we transport have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality, which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. We cannot assure you that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, our financial results. Grupo TMM is a party to a number of arrangements with other parties as joint investors in non-wholly owned subsidiaries. Grupo TMM is a party to a number of arrangements with other parties under which it and such parties have jointly invested in non-wholly-owned subsidiaries; and Grupo TMM may enter into other similar arrangements in the future. Grupo TMM’s partners in these non-wholly-owned subsidiaries may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with its interests or those of the entity in which they have invested with us. Any of these partners may also be unable to meet their economic or other obligations to the non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Grupo TMM may be required to fulfill those obligations. Furthermore, any dividends that are distributed from subsidiaries that Grupo TMM does not wholly own would be shared pro rata with its partners according to their relative ownership interests. For these or any other reasons, disagreements or disputes with partners with whom Grupo TMM has a strategic alliance or relationship could impair or adversely affect its ability to conduct its business and to receive distributions from, and return on its investments in, those subsidiaries. Over time, vessel values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of a vessel, we may incur a loss. Vessel values can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: • prevailing economic conditions in the market; • a substantial or extended decline in world trade; • increases in the supply of vessel capacity; • prevailing charter rates; and • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, or otherwise. In the future, if the market values of our vessels deteriorate significantly, we may be required to record an impairment charge in our financial statements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If a charter terminates, we may be unable to re-charter the vessel at an acceptable rate and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the vessels at a reasonable price could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our growth depends upon continued growth and demand for the liquid bulk and offshore vessel industries which may have been at or near the peak of its upward trend and charter hire rates have already been at or near historical highs. These factors may lead to reductions and volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. The liquid bulk and offshore vessel industries are both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter hire rates and profitability. In the future, charter rates and demand for our vessels may fluctuate as a result of changes in the size of and geographic location of supply and demand for oil and related products, as well as changes in maritime Table of Contents 13 regulations. These and other factors affecting the supply and demand for liquid bulk, offshore and vessels in general are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for our vessels’ capacity include: • supply and demand for products suitable for shipping by our vessels; • changes in global production of products transported by our vessels; • the distance cargo products are to be moved by sea; • the globalization of manufacturing; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargoes are transported; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; and • weather. The factors that influence the supply of our vessels’ capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels similar to our vessels; • the price of steel and other raw materials; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; • the number of vessels that are out of service; and • port congestion. Our ability to recharter our vessels upon the expiration or termination of their current charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the prevailing state of the charter market for our vessels. If the charter market is depressed when our vessels’ charters expire, we may be forced to recharter our vessels at reduced rates or even possibly a rate whereby we incur a loss, which may reduce our earnings or make our earnings volatile. The same issues will exist if we acquire additional vessels and attempt to obtain multi-year time charter arrangements as part of our acquisition and financing plan. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing charterers and to obtain new charterers, for which we will face substantial competition. One of our principal objectives is to acquire additional vessels in conjunction with entering into additional multi-year, fixed-rate time charters for these ships. The process of obtaining new multi-year time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. Shipping charters are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including: • shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety; • shipping experience and quality of ship operations (including cost effectiveness); • quality and experience of seafaring crew; • the ability to finance vessels at competitive rates and financial stability in general; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; • relationships with shipowners and the ability to obtain suitable second-hand vessels; • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new ships according to customer specifications; • willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events, among others; and • competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We expect substantial competition from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major shipping companies. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do, Table of Contents 14 and can therefore operate larger fleets and may be able to offer better charter rates. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies will enter the sector, including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of a vessel may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. Although our current fleet of 39 vessels had an average age (weighted by Dead Weight Tonnage, or DWT) of approximately 12.7 years as of April 30, 2007, we cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify such expenditures or will enable us to profitably operate our vessels during the remainder of their expected useful lives. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by operational risks inherent in the transportation and logistics industry. The operation of supply vessels, trucks and other machinery relating to the shipping and cargo business involves an inherent risk of catastrophic marine or land disaster, mechanical failure, collisions, and property losses to vessels or trucks, piracy, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political action in Mexico and in foreign countries. In addition, the operation of any oceangoing vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of catastrophic marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental accidents, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. Any such event may result in a reduction of revenues or increased costs. The company’s vessels and trucking equipment are insured for their estimated value against damage or loss, including war, terrorism acts, and pollution risks and we also carry other insurance customary in the industry. We maintain insurance to cover the risk of partial or total loss of or damage to all of our assets, including, but not limited to, seagoing vessels, port facilities, port equipment, trucks, land facilities and offices. In particular, we maintain marine hull and machinery and war risk insurance on our vessels, which covers the risk of actual or constructive total loss. Additionally, we have protection and indemnity insurance for damage caused by our operations to third persons. With certain exceptions, we do not carry insurance covering the loss of revenue resulting from a downturn in our operations or resulting from vessel off-hire time on certain vessels. In certain instances, and depending on the ratio of insurance claims to insurance premiums paid, we may choose to self-insure our over-the-road equipment following prudent guidelines. We cannot assure you that our insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages suffered by us or damages to others, that any particular claim will be paid or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Additionally, shipping activity decreases substantially during periods of cold weather, poor sea conditions or when sustained rainfalls occur. Such adverse weather conditions can adversely affect our results of operations and profitability if they occur with unusual intensity, during abnormal periods, or last longer than usual in our major markets, especially during peak shipping periods. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental and safety laws and regulations and we may incur costs that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition as a result of our liabilities under or potential violations of environmental and safety laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to general Mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. The Procuraduría Federal de Protección al Ambiente (Mexican Attorney General for Environmental Protection) is empowered to bring administrative and criminal proceedings and impose corrective actions and economic sanctions against companies that violate environmental laws, and temporarily or permanently Table of Contents 15 close non-complying facilities. The Secretaría del Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (Mexican Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources) (“SEMARNAT”) and other ministries have promulgated compliance standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, air emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances transportation and handling, and hazardous and solid waste generation . . Under the environmental laws, the Mexican Government has implemented a program to protect the environment by promulgating rules concerning water, land, air and noise discharges or pollution, and the transportation and handling of wastes and hazardous substances. We are also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of hazardous materials, wastes and pollutants into the environment. While we maintain insurance against certain of these environmental risks in an amount which we believe is consistent with amounts customarily obtained in accordance with industry norms, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover damages suffered by us or that insurance coverage will always be available for these possible damages. Further, such insurance typically excludes coverage for fines and penalties that may be levied for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We anticipate that the regulation of our business operations under federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations will increase and become more stringent over time. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on our results of operations, cash flows, capital expenditure requirements or financial condition. Our international parcel transportation services rendered in the Gulf of Mexico and our coastwise product tanker business rendered in both the Gulf of Mexico and in the Pacific Ocean provide service to transport petrochemical products and refined clean and dirty petroleum products respectively. See Item 4. “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Maritime Operations.” Under the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA” or “OPA 90”), responsible parties, including ship-owners and operators, are subject to various requirements and could be exposed to substantial liability, and in some cases unlimited liability, for removal costs and damages, including natural resource damages and a variety of other public and private damages, resulting from the discharge of oil, petroleum or related substances into the waters of the U.S. In some jurisdictions, including the U.S., claims for spill clean-up or removal costs and damages would enable claimants to immediately seize the ships of the owning and operating company and sell them in satisfaction of a final judgment. The existence of comparable statutes enacted by individual states of the U.S., but requiring different measures of compliance and liability, creates the potential for similar claims being brought in the U.S. under state law. In addition, several other countries have adopted international conventions that impose liability for the discharge of pollutants similar to OPA. If a spill were to occur in the course of operation of one of our vessels carrying petroleum products, and such spill affected the waters of the United States or another country that had enacted legislation similar to OPA, we could be exposed to substantial or unlimited liability. Additionally, our vessels carry bunkers (ship fuel) and certain goods that, if spilled, under certain conditions, could cause pollution and result in substantial claims against us, including claims under international laws and conventions, OPA and other U.S. federal, state and local laws. Further, under OPA and similar international laws and conventions, we are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil spills and other pollution incidents. Penalties for failure to maintain the financial responsibility requirements can be significant and can include the seizure of the vessel. Our vessels must also meet stringent operational, maintenance and structural requirements, and they are subject to rigorous inspections by governmental authorities such as the U.S. Coast Guard for those vessels, which operate within USA territorial waters. Non-compliance with these regulations could give rise to substantial fines and penalties. We could have liability with respect to contamination at our former U.S. facilities or third-party facilities in the U.S. where we have sent hazardous substances or wastes under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”) and comparable state laws (known as state Superfund laws). CERCLA and the state Superfund laws impose joint and several liability for the cost of investigation and remediation, natural resources damages, certain health studies and related costs, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons with respect to the release into the environment of certain substances. These persons, commonly called “potentially responsible parties” or “PRPs” include the current and certain prior owners or operators of and persons that arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances Table of Contents 16 at sites where a release has occurred or could occur. In addition, other potentially responsible parties, adjacent landowners or other third parties may initiate cost recovery actions or toxic tort litigation against PRPs under CERCLA or state Superfund law or state common law. The U.S. Clean Water Act imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of wastes into the waters of the United States. The Clean Water Act and comparable state laws, provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants. In the event of an unauthorized discharge of wastes or pollutants into waters of the United States, we may be liable for penalties and could be subject to injunctive relief. Potential labor disruptions could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to meet our obligations under our financing arrangements. As of March 31, 2007, we had 5,072 employees, approximately 63% of whom were unionized. The compensation terms of the labor agreement with these employees are subject to renegotiation on an annual basis and all other terms are renegotiated every two years. We may not be able to negotiate these provisions favorably, and strikes, boycotts or other disruptions could occur. These potential disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to meet our payment obligations under our financing arrangements. Continuing world tensions, including as the result of wars, other armed conflicts and terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Continuing world tensions, including those relating to the Middle East and North Korea, as well as terrorist attacks in various locations and related unrest, have increased worldwide political and economic instability and depressed economic activity in the U.S. and globally, including the Mexican economy. The continuation or escalation of existing armed hostilities or the outbreak of additional hostilities as a consequence of further acts of terrorism or otherwise could cause a further downturn and/or significant disruption to the economies of the U.S., Mexico and other countries. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and abroad and the potential for military action and heightened security measures in response to such threat may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world, including restrictions on cross-border transport and trade. Our customers may take actions that may reduce our revenues. If our customers believe that our financial condition will result in a lower quality of service, they may discontinue use of our services. Additionally, some customers may demand lower prices. While we have contracts with some of our customers that prevent them from terminating our services or which impose penalties on customers who terminate our services, it may be impractical or uneconomical to enforce these agreements in Mexican courts. If any of these events occurs, our revenues will be reduced. Our financial statements may not give you the same information as financial statements prepared under United States accounting rules. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS. IFRS differs in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP, including among others the classification of minority interest and employees’ profit sharing, the accounting treatment for capitalized interest, consolidation of subsidiaries, and acquisition of shares of subsidiaries from minority stockholders; and the computation of deferred taxes. For this and other reasons, the presentation of financial statements and reported earnings prepared in accordance with IFRS may differ materially from the presentation of financial statements and reported earnings prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Table of Contents 17 Risks Relating to the Transaction with KCS Grupo TMM may receive more KCS shares in the future in lieu of cash payments. We currently do not hold any KCS stock. However, under the terms of the Amended and Restated Acquisition Agreement entered into by and among Grupo TMM, KCS and other parties, on December 15, 2004 (the “AAA”) (see “Disposition of Grupo TMM’s interest in Grupo TFM to KCS”), KCS may elect to pay the $47.0 million Indemnity Escrow Note and the $40.0 million VAT Escrow Note in KCS stock, in which case the number of shares received by the Company resulting from the formula for the determination of the number of shares received in consideration of such payment obligations may differ significantly from the market value of such shares at the time the Company receives them or chooses to dispose of them. If KCS elects to pay such notes in stock, the value of such stock to the Company will be determined by the success of the KCS business. Investors should read carefully the annual report of KCS for the fiscal year concluded on December 31, 2006, as well as all the other reports and information that KCS submits to the SEC in the United States. If we receive KCS stock in lieu of cash payments under the Indemnity Escrow and/or the VAT Escrow Notes, significant sales of such shares by us or by others may have a negative effect on the market price of the KCS shares and the value of our stock. Pursuant to the terms of the AAA, on January 29, 2007, KCS notified the Company of its intention to assert certain claims under Section 10 of the AAA seeking indemnification against the Indemnity Escrow Note. On January 31, 2007 the Company notified KCS of claims that it intends to assert against KCS for breaches under the AAA and other related agreements. On February 28, 2007, KCS restated its notification to assert claims, eliminating some of the claims as had been presented originally. On May 15, 2007, KCS filed a demand for arbitration seeking indemnification against the Indemnity Escrow Note. The Company also filed a demand for arbitration seeking indemnification claims against KCS. See “Legal Proceedings — Dispute with Kansas City Southern” at the end of this section. Although we cannot predict the outcome of the arbitration proceedings, the management of the Company believes KCS claims are without merit and will vigorously pursue its claims against KCS. KCS’ obligations under the Amended and Restated Acquisition Agreement are unsecured. Certain payments to be made to Grupo TMM pursuant to the AAA are subject to certain conditions and uncertainty. KCS’ payment obligations under the AAA are unsecured obligations, and as such, may rank junior in right of payment to those of other KCS secured creditors. Therefore, the rights of Grupo TMM against KCS would be junior in priority to any secured debt of KCS. See Item 4. “Information on the Company — Recent Developments — Disposition of Grupo TMM’s interest in Grupo TFM to KCS.” Risks Relating to Mexico Economic, political and social conditions may adversely affect our business. Our financial performance may be significantly affected by general economic, political and social conditions in the markets where we operate. Most of our operations and assets are located in Mexico. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and business may be affected by the general condition of the Mexican economy, the devaluation of the Peso as compared to the U.S. Dollar, Mexican inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and political, social and economic developments in Mexico. Many countries in Latin America, including Mexico, have suffered significant economic, political and social crises in the past, and these events may occur again in the future. Instability in the region has been caused by many different factors, including: • significant governmental influence over local economies; • substantial fluctuations in economic growth; • high levels of inflation; • changes in currency values; • exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings; • high domestic interest rates; • wage and price controls; Table of Contents 18 • changes in governmental economic or tax policies; • imposition of trade barriers; • unexpected changes in regulation; and • overall political, social and economic instability. Mexico is an emerging market economy, with attendant risks to our results of operations and financial condition. Mexico has historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth. Mexico’s gross domestic product (“GDP”) increased 0.7%, 1.6%, 4.4%, 2.7% and 4.7% in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. GDP growth fell short of Mexico Consensus Board(1) estimates in 2006; however, the Mexico Consensus Board estimates that GDP in Mexico is expected to grow by approximately 3.4%, while inflation is expected to be less than 4.0% in 2007. We cannot assure you that these estimates will prove to be accurate. The Mexican Government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly, Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on Mexican private sector entities in general and on us in particular, as well as on market conditions, prices and returns on Mexican securities, including our securities. (1) Mexico Consensus Board is formed by six firms recognized internationally (American Chamber Mexico, Banamex, BBVA-Bancomer, Center for Economic Forecasting, Grupo Financiero Scotiabank Inverlat and, Latin Source Mexico). Currency fluctuations or the devaluation and depreciation of the Peso could limit the ability of the Company and others to convert Pesos into U.S. Dollars or other currencies which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Severe devaluation or depreciation of the Peso may also result in governmental intervention, as has resulted in Argentina, or disruption of international foreign exchange markets. This may limit our ability to transfer or convert Pesos into U.S. Dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our dollar denominated indebtedness and adversely affect our ability to obtain foreign currency and other imported goods. The Mexican economy has suffered current account balance payment of deficits and shortages of foreign exchange reserves in the past. While the Mexican Government does not currently restrict, and for more than ten years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert Pesos into U.S. Dollars or to transfer other currencies outside of Mexico, the Mexican Government could institute restrictive exchange control policies in the future. To the extent that the Mexican Government institutes restrictive exchange control policies in the future, our ability to transfer or convert Pesos into U.S. Dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on indebtedness would be adversely affected. Devaluation or depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar may also adversely affect U.S. Dollar prices for our debt securities. Pursuant to the provisions of NAFTA, if Mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat thereof in the future, Mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in Mexico, including those made by U.S. and Canadian investors. Any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect our ability to obtain dollars or to convert Pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments to our creditors, to the extent that we may have to effect those conversions. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. High interest rates in Mexico could increase our financing costs. Mexico historically has had, and may continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities averaged 6.83%, 9.23%, 7.18% and 7.05% for 2004, 2005, 2006 and for the three-month period ended March 31, 2007, respectively. Accordingly, if we have to incur Peso-denominated debt in the future, it will likely be at higher interest rates. Developments in other emerging market countries or in the U.S. may affect us and the prices of our securities. The market value of securities of Mexican companies, the economic and political situation in Mexico and our financial condition and results of operations are, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries and in the U.S. Although economic conditions in other emerging market countries Table of Contents 19 and in the U.S. may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value or trading price of securities of Mexican issuers, including our securities, or on our business. Our operations, including demand for our products or services and the price of our debt securities, have also historically been adversely affected by increases in interest rates in the U.S. and elsewhere. The Federal Reserve Bank of the U.S. has signaled that it will continue implementing “measured” increases in interest rates in 2007. As interest rates rise, the interest payments on our floating rate debt and the cost of refinancing our financing arrangements at maturity will rise as well. Mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Mexico has a history of high levels of inflation, and may experience inflation in the future. During most of the 1980s and during the mid- and late-1990s, Mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. The annual rates of inflation for the last five years, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index, as provided by Banco de México, were: 2002 5.70 % 2003 3.98 % 2004 5.19 % 2005 3.33 % 2006 4.05 % 2007 (five months ended May 31) 0.46 % Mexico’s current level of inflation has been reported at similar levels as the annual inflation rate of the U.S. but remains higher than that of Canada. The U.S. and Canada are Mexico’s main trading partners. We cannot give any assurance that the Mexican inflation rate will not increase or maintain its current level for any significant period of time. A substantial increase in the Mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of our costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to serve our debt obligations. High levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between Mexico and the United States, and other countries, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Political events in Mexico could affect Mexican economic policy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The social and political situation in Mexico, including the heightened tension resulting from the closely contested 2006 presidential elections and presidential succession, could adversely affect the Mexican economy, including the stability of its currency, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as market conditions and prices for our securities. The national elections held on July 2, 2000, ended 71 years of rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party (“Partido Revolucionario Institucional”) (“PRI”) with the election of President Vicente Fox Quesada, a member of the National Action Party (“Partido Acción Nacional”) (“PAN”), and resulted in the increased representation of opposition parties in the Mexican Congress and in mayoral and gubernatorial positions. More recently, the national elections held on July 2, 2006 were highly contested and the winning candidate, President Felipe Calderon Hinojosa of the PAN, defeated Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador of the Democratic Revolution Party (“Partido de la Revolucion Democratica”) (“PRD”) by less than one percentage point in the total vote count. This resulted in a post-electoral legal dispute which was ultimately resolved in Mexico’s Supreme Court, and President Calderon was inaugurated December 1, 2006 amidst a rarefied political climate. Although there have not yet been any material adverse repercussions resulting from this political change and the recent elections, multiparty rule is still relatively new in Mexico and could result in economic or political conditions that could have a negative impact on the Mexican economy that would materially and adversely affect our operations. Finally, the Mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. Table of Contents 20 Mexican antitrust laws may limit our ability to expand through acquisitions or joint ventures. Mexico’s federal antitrust laws and regulations may affect some of our activities, including our ability to introduce new products and services, enter into new or complementary businesses or joint ventures and complete acquisitions. In addition, the federal antitrust laws and regulations may adversely affect our ability to determine the rates we charge for our services and products. Approval of the Comisión Federal de Competencia, or Mexican Antitrust Commission, is required for us to acquire and sell significant businesses or enter into significant joint ventures. Investors may not be able to enforce judgments against the Company. Investors may be unable to enforce judgments against us. We are a stock corporation, organized under the laws of Mexico. Substantially all our directors and officers reside in Mexico, and all or a significant portion of the assets of those persons may be located outside the United States. It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or to enforce judgments against them or against us in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Additionally, it may not be possible to enforce, in original actions in Mexican courts, liabilities predicated solely only the U.S. federal securities laws and it may not be possible to enforce, in Mexican courts, judgments of U.S courts obtained in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Equity The protection afforded to minority shareholders in Mexico are different from those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States. Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and may be less than, those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States. Under Mexican law, there is no procedure for class actions as such actions are conducted in the United States and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits against companies. Therefore, it may be more difficult for minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors or our controlling shareholders than it would be for minority shareholders of a United States company. The Company is controlled by the Serrano Segovia family. Members of the Serrano Segovia family control the Company through their direct and indirect ownership of our Shares. Holders of our ADSs may not vote at our shareholders meetings. Each of our ADSs represents one CPO. Holders of CPOs are not entitled to exercise any voting rights with respect to the Shares held in the CPO Trust. Such voting rights are exercisable only by the trustee, which is required by the terms of the trust agreement to vote such Shares in the same manner as the majority of the Shares that are not held in the CPO Trust that are voted at any shareholders’ meeting. Currently the Serrano Segovia Family owns a majority of the Shares that are not held in the CPO Trust. As a result, the Serrano Segovia family will be able to direct and control the policies of the Company and its subsidiaries, including mergers, sales of assets and similar transactions. See Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders.” A change in control may adversely affect us. A substantial portion of the Shares and ADSs of the Company held by the Serrano Segovia family is currently pledged to secure indebtedness of the Serrano Segovia family and entities controlled by them and may from time to time in the future be pledged to secure obligations of other of their affiliates. A foreclosure upon any such Shares held by the Serrano Segovia family could result in a change of control under the various debt instruments of the Company and its subsidiaries. Such debt instruments provide that certain change of control events with respect to us will constitute a default and that the relevant lenders may require us to prepay our debt obligations including accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of such repayment. If such a default occurs, we cannot assure you that we will have enough funds to repay our debt. Holders of ADSs may not be entitled to participate in any future preemptive rights offering, which may result in a dilution of such holders equity interest in our company. Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our stockholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in Table of Contents 21 our company. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are commonly referred to as preemptive rights. We may not be legally permitted to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to exercise preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless (1) we file a registration statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to that future issuance of shares or (2) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. If we do not file a registration statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering or if there is not an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 available, the equity interests of holders of ADSs would be diluted to the extent that ADS holders cannot participate in a preemptive rights offering. 