risk factors, please see Part I — Item 1A. — Risk Factors. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “we,” “us,” “our,” or “Nabors” means Nabors Industries Ltd. and, where the context requires, includes our subsidiaries. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction. Nabors is the largest land drilling contractor in the world with approximately 615 land drilling rigs. We conduct oil, gas and geothermal land drilling operations in the U.S. Lower 48 states, Alaska, Canada, South and Central America, the Middle East, the Far East and Africa. We are also one of the largest land well-servicing and workover contractors in the United States and Canada. We own approximately 610 land workover and well-servicing rigs in the United States, primarily in the southwestern and western United States, and approximately 190 land workover and well-servicing rigs in Canada. Nabors is a leading provider of offshore platform workover and drilling rigs, and owns 48 platform, 19 jack-up units and five barge rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. These rigs provide well-servicing, workover and drilling services. We have a 50% ownership interest in a joint venture in Saudi Arabia, which owns 18 rigs. We also offer a wide range of ancillary well-site services, including engineering, transportation, construction, maintenance, well logging, directional drilling, rig instrumentation, data collection and other support services in selected domestic and international markets. We time charter a fleet of 29 marine transportation and supply vessels, which provide transportation of drilling materials, supplies and crews for offshore operations. During the first quarter of 2006 we began to offer subcontracted logistics services for onshore drilling and well-servicing operations in Canada using helicopters and fixed-winged aircraft. We manufacture and lease or sell top drives for a broad range of drilling applications, directional drilling systems, rig instrumentation and data collection equipment, pipeline handling equipment and rig reporting software. We have also made selective investments in oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. Nabors was formed as a Bermuda-exempt company on December 11, 2001. Through predecessors and acquired entities, Nabors has been continuously operating in the drilling sector since the early 1900s. Our principal executive offices are located at Mintflower Place, 8 Par-La-Ville Road, Hamilton, HM08, Bermuda. Our phone number at our principal executive offices is (441) 292-1510. Our Fleet of Rigs. • Land Rigs. A land-based drilling rig generally consists of engines, a drawworks, a mast (or derrick), pumps to circulate the drilling fluid (mud) under various pressures, blowout preventers, drill string and related equipment. The engines 2 Table of Contents power the different pieces of equipment, including a rotary table or top drive that turns the drill string, causing the drill bit to bore through the subsurface rock layers. Rock cuttings are carried to the surface by the circulating drilling fluid. The intended well depth, bore hole diameter and drilling site conditions are the principal factors that determine the size and type of rig most suitable for a particular drilling job. A land-based workover or well-servicing rig consists of a mobile carrier, engine, drawworks and a mast. The primary function of a workover or well-servicing rig is to act as a hoist so that pipe, sucker rods and down-hole equipment can be run into and out of a well. Because of size and cost considerations, well-servicing and workover rigs are used for these operations rather than the larger drilling rigs. Land-based drilling rigs are moved between well sites and between geographic areas of operations by using our fleet of cranes, loaders and transport vehicles. Well-servicing rigs are generally self-propelled units and heavier capacity workover rigs are either self-propelled or trailer mounted and include auxiliary equipment, which is either transported on trailers or moved with trucks. • Platform Rigs. Platform rigs provide offshore workover, drilling and re-entry services. Our platform rigs have drilling and/or well-servicing or workover equipment and machinery arranged in modular packages that are transported to, and assembled and installed on, fixed offshore platforms owned by the customer. Fixed offshore platforms are steel tower-like structures that either stand on the ocean floor or are moored floating structures. The top portion, or platform, sits above the water level and provides the foundation upon which the platform rig is placed. • Jack-up Rigs. Jack-up rigs are mobile, self-elevating drilling and workover platforms equipped with legs that can be lowered to the ocean floor until a foundation is established to support the hull, which contains the drilling and/or workover equipment, jacking system, crew quarters, loading and unloading facilities, storage areas for bulk and liquid materials, helicopter landing deck and other related equipment. The rig legs may operate independently or have a mat attached to the lower portion of the legs in order to provide a more stable foundation in soft bottom areas. Many of our jack-up rigs are of cantilever design — a feature that permits the drilling platform to be extended out from the hull, allowing it to perform drilling or workover operations over adjacent, fixed platforms. Nabors’ shallow workover jack-up rigs generally are subject to a maximum water depth of approximately 125 feet, while some of our jack-up rigs may drill in water depths as shallow as 13 feet. Nabors also has deeper water depth capacity jack-up rigs that are capable of drilling at depths between eight feet and 150 to 250 feet. The water depth limit of a particular rig is determined by the length of the rig’s legs and the operating environment. Moving a rig from one drill site to another involves lowering the hull down into the water until it is afloat and then jacking up its legs with the hull floating. The rig is then towed to the new drilling site. • Inland Barge Rigs. One of Nabors’ barge rigs is a full-size drilling unit. Nabors also owns two workover inland barge rigs. These barges are designed to perform plugging and abandonment, well service or workover services in shallow inland, coastal or offshore waters. Our barge rigs can operate at depths between three and 20 feet. Additional information regarding the geographic markets in which we operate and our business segments can be found in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. below. Customers; Types of Drilling Contracts. Our customers include major oil and gas companies, foreign national oil and gas companies and independent oil and gas companies. No customer accounted for greater than 10% of consolidated revenues in 2006 or in 2005. On land in the U.S. Lower 48 states and Canada, we have historically been contracted on a single-well basis, with extensions subject to mutual agreement on pricing and other significant terms. Beginning in late 2004, as a result of increasing demand for drilling services, our customers started entering into longer term contracts with durations ranging from one to three years. Under these contracts our rigs are committed to one customer over that term. Increasingly, these contracts are being signed for three-year terms for newly constructed rigs. Contracts relating to offshore drilling and land drilling in Alaska and international markets generally provide for longer terms, usually from one to five years. Offshore workover projects are often on a single-well basis. We generally are awarded drilling contracts through competitive bidding, although we occasionally enter into contracts by direct negotiation. Most of our single-well contracts are subject to termination by the customer on short notice, but some can be firm for a number of wells or a period of time, and may provide for early termination compensation in certain circumstances. The contract terms and rates may differ depending on a variety of factors, including competitive conditions, the geographical area, the geological formation to be drilled, the equipment and services to be supplied, the on-site drilling conditions and the anticipated duration of the work to be performed. In recent years, all of our drilling contracts have been daywork contracts. A daywork contract generally provides for a basic rate per day when drilling (the dayrate for us providing a rig and crew) and for lower rates when the rig is moving, or 3 Table of Contents when drilling operations are interrupted or restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse weather conditions or other conditions beyond our control. In addition, daywork contracts may provide for a lump sum fee for the mobilization and demobilization of the rig, which in most cases approximates our incurred costs. A daywork contract differs from a footage contract (in which the drilling contractor is paid on the basis of a rate per foot drilled) and a turnkey contract (in which the drilling contractor is paid for drilling a well to a specified depth for a fixed price). Well Servicing and Workover Services. Although some wells in the United States flow oil to the surface without mechanical assistance, most are in mature production areas that require pumping or some other form of artificial lift. Pumping oil wells characteristically require more maintenance than flowing wells because of the operation of the mechanical pumping equipment installed. • Well-Servicing/Maintenance Services. We provide maintenance services on the mechanical apparatus used to pump or lift oil from producing wells. These services include, among other things, repairing and replacing pumps, sucker rods and tubing. We provide the rigs, equipment and crews for these tasks, which are performed on both oil and natural gas wells, but which are more commonly required on oil wells. Maintenance services typically take less than 48 hours to complete. Well-servicing rigs generally are provided to customers on a call-out basis. We are paid an hourly rate and work typically is performed five days a week during daylight hours. • Workover Services. Producing oil and natural gas wells occasionally require major repairs or modifications, called “workovers.” Workovers normally are carried out with a well-servicing rig that includes additional specialized accessory equipment, which may include rotary drilling equipment, mud pumps, mud tanks and blowout preventers. A workover may last anywhere from a few days to several weeks. We are paid an hourly rate and work is generally performed seven days a week, 24 hours a day. • Completion Services. The kinds of activities necessary to carry out a workover operation are essentially the same as those that are required to “complete” a well when it is first drilled. The completion process may involve selectively perforating the well casing at the depth of discrete producing zones, stimulating and testing these zones and installing down-hole equipment. The completion process may take a few days to several weeks. We are paid an hourly rate and work is generally performed seven days a week, 24 hours a day. • Production and Other Specialized Services. We also can provide other specialized services, including onsite temporary fluid-storage facilities, the provision, removal and disposal of specialized fluids used during certain completion and workover operations, and the removal and disposal of salt water that often is produced in conjunction with the production of oil and natural gas. We also provide plugging services for wells from which the oil and natural gas has been depleted or further production has become uneconomical. We are paid an hourly or a per unit rate, as applicable, for these services. Oil and Gas Investments. Through our Ramshorn business unit, Nabors makes selective investments in oil and gas exploration, development and production operations. Additional information about recent activities for this segment can be found in Part II, Item 7. — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Oil and Gas. Other Services. Canrig Drilling Technology Ltd., our drilling technologies subsidiary, manufactures top drives, which are installed on both onshore and offshore drilling rigs. Our top drives are marketed throughout the world. During the last three years, approximately 72% of our top drive sales were made to other Nabors companies. We also rent top drives and provide top drive installation, repair and maintenance services to our customers. Canrig Drilling Technology Canada Ltd., our newly acquired drilling technology subsidiary, manufactures catwalks and wrenches which are installed on both onshore and offshore drilling rigs. During the first seven months of operations, approximately 56% of the equipment sales were made to other Nabors companies. Epoch Well Services, Inc., our well services subsidiary, offers rig instrumentation equipment, including sensors, proprietary RIGWATCH™ software and computerized equipment that monitors the real-time performance of a rig. In addition, Epoch specializes in daily reporting software for drilling operations, making this data available through the internet via mywells.com. Epoch also provides mudlogging services. Ryan Energy Technologies, Inc., another one of our subsidiaries, manufactures and sells directional drilling and rig instrumentation and data collection services to oil and gas exploration and service companies. Nabors has a 50% interest in Peak Oilfield Services Company, a general partnership with a subsidiary of Cook Inlet Region, Inc., a leading Alaskan native corporation. Peak Oilfield Services provides heavy 4 Table of Contents equipment to move drilling rigs, water, other fluids and construction materials, primarily on Alaska’s North Slope and in the Cook Inlet region. The partnership also provides construction and maintenance for ice roads, pads, facilities, equipment, drill sites and pipelines. Nabors also has a 50% interest in Alaska Interstate Construction, a limited liability company whose other primary partner is Cook Inlet Region, Inc. Alaska Interstate Construction is a general contractor involved in the construction of roads, bridges, dams, drill sites and other facility sites, as well as providing mining support in Alaska. Revenues are derived from services to companies engaged in mining and public works. Our subsidiary, Peak USA Energy Services, Ltd., provides hauling and maintenance services for customers in the U.S. Lower 48 states. Nabors Blue Sky Ltd. was formed through an acquisition completed in the first quarter of 2006, and leases aircraft used for logistics services for onshore drilling and well-servicing operations in Canada using helicopters and fixed-winged aircraft. We time charter a fleet of 29 offshore support vessels, including one crew boat, which operate in the Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad and the Middle East and provide marine transportation of drilling materials, supplies and crews for offshore rig operations and support for other offshore facilities. The supply vessels are used as freight-carrying vessels for bringing drill pipe, tubing, casing, drilling mud and other equipment to drilling rigs and production platforms. Our Employees. As of December 31, 2006, Nabors employed approximately 25,218 persons, of whom approximately 3,204 were employed by unconsolidated affiliates. We believe our relationship with our employees generally is good. Certain rig employees in Argentina and Australia are represented by collective bargaining units. Seasonality. Our Canadian and Alaskan drilling and workover operations are subject to seasonal variations as a result of weather conditions and generally experience reduced levels of activity and financial results during the second calendar quarter of each year. Seasonality does not have a material impact on the remaining portions of our business. Our overall financial results reflect the seasonal variations experienced in our Canadian and Alaskan operations. Research and Development. Research and development constitutes a growing part of our overall business. The effective use of technology is critical to the maintenance of our competitive position within the drilling industry. As a result of the importance of technology to our business, we expect to continue to develop technology internally or to acquire technology through strategic acquisitions. Industry/Competitive Conditions. To a large degree, Nabors’ businesses depend on the level of capital spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. A sustained increase or decrease in the price of natural gas or oil could have a material impact on exploration, development and production activities by our customers and could also materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Part I — Item 1A. — Risk Factors — Fluctuations in oil and gas prices could adversely affect drilling activity and Nabors’ revenues, cash flows and profitability. Our industry remains competitive. Historically, the number of rigs has exceeded demand in many of our markets, resulting in strong price competition. More recently, as a result of improved demand for drilling services driven by a sustained high level of commodity prices, supply and demand have been in balance in most of our markets, with demand actually exceeding supply in some of our markets. This economic reality has resulted in an increase in rates being charged for rigs across our North American, Offshore and International markets. Furthermore, over the last three years, the dramatic increase in rates along with our customers’ willingness to enter into firm three-year commitments has resulted in our building of new rigs in significant quantities for the first time in over 20 years. However, as many existing rigs can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity and many of the total available contracts are currently awarded on a bid basis, competition based on price for both existing and new rigs still exists across all of our markets. The land drilling, workover and well-servicing market is generally more competitive than the offshore market due to the larger number of rigs and market participants. In all of our geographic market areas, we believe price and availability and condition of equipment are the most significant factors in determining which drilling contractor is awarded a job. Other factors include the availability of trained personnel possessing the required specialized skills; the overall quality of service and safety record; and domestically, the 5 Table of Contents ability to offer ancillary services. Increasingly, as the market requires additional rigs and as a result of new build capacity, the ability to deliver rigs within certain timeframes is becoming a competitive factor. In international markets, experience in operating in certain environments and customer alliances, also have been factors in the selection of Nabors. Certain competitors are present in more than one of Nabors’ operating regions, although no one competitor operates in all of these areas. In the U.S. Lower 48 states, there are several hundred competitors with national, regional or local rig operations. In domestic land workover and well-servicing, we compete with Key Energy Services, Inc. and with numerous other competitors having smaller regional or local rig operations. In Canada and offshore, Nabors competes with many firms of varying size, several of which have more significant operations in those areas than Nabors. Internationally, Nabors competes directly with various contractors at each location where it operates. Nabors believes that the market for land drilling, workover and well-servicing contracts will continue to be competitive for the foreseeable future. Our other operating segments represent a relatively smaller part of our business, and we have numerous competitors in each area. Our Canrig subsidiary is one of the four major manufacturers of top drives. Its largest competitors are National Oilwell Varco, Tesco and MH Pyramid. EPOCH’s largest competitors in the manufacture of rig instrumentation systems are Pason and National Oilwell Varco’s Totco subsidiary. Mudlogging services are provided by a number of entities that serve the oil and gas industry on a regional basis. EPOCH competes for mudlogging customers with Baker Hughes, Sperry Sun, Diversified, and Stratagraph in the Gulf Coast region, California and Alaska. In the U.S. Lower 48 states, there are hundreds of rig transportation companies, and there are at least three or four that compete with Peak USA in each of its operating regions. In Alaska, Peak Oilfield Services principally competes with Alaska Petroleum Contractors for road, pad and pipeline maintenance, and is one of many drill site and road construction companies, the largest of which is VECO Corporation, and Alaska Interstate Construction principally competes with Wilder Construction Company and Cruz Construction Company for the construction of roads, bridges, dams, drill sites and other facility sites. Our Business Strategy. Since 1987, with the installation of our current management team, Nabors has adhered to a consistent strategy aimed at positioning our company to grow and prosper in good times and to mitigate adverse effects during periods of poor market conditions. We have maintained a financial posture that allows us to capitalize on market weakness and strength by adding to our business base, thereby enhancing our upside potential. The principal elements of our strategy have been to: • Maintain flexibility to respond to changing conditions. • Maintain a conservative and flexible balance sheet. • Build cost effectively a base of premium assets. • Build and maintain low operating costs through economies of scale. • Develop and maintain long-term, mutually attractive relationships with key customers and vendors. • Build a diverse business in long-term, sustainable and worthwhile geographic markets. • Recognize and seize opportunities as they arise. • Continually improve safety, quality and efficiency. • Implement leading edge technology where cost-effective to do so. Our business strategy is designed to allow us to grow and remain profitable in any market environment. The major developments in our business in the past two years illustrate our implementation of this strategy and its continuing success. Specifically, we have taken advantage of the robust rig market to obtain a high volume of contracts for newly constructed rigs. A large proportion of these rigs are subject to long-term contracts with creditworthy customers with the most significant impact occurring in our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling, International and Canadian operations. This will not only expand our operations with the latest state-of-the-art rigs, which should better weather downturns in market activity, but eventually replace the oldest least capable rigs in our existing fleet. Acquisitions and Divestitures. We have grown from a land drilling business centered in the U.S. Lower 48 states, Canada and Alaska to an international business with operations on land and offshore in many of the major oil, gas and geothermal markets in the world. At the beginning of 1990, our fleet consisted of 44 land drilling rigs in Canada, Alaska and in various international markets. Today, Nabors’ worldwide fleet consists of approximately 615 land drilling rigs, approximately 610 domestic and 190 international land workover and well-servicing rigs, 48 offshore platform rigs, 19 jack-up units, five barge rigs and a large component of trucks and fluid hauling vehicles. This growth was fueled in part by strategic acquisitions. Although Nabors continues to examine opportunities, there can be no assurance that attractive rigs or other acquisition opportunities will 6 Table of Contents continue to be available, that the pricing will be economical or that we will be successful in making such acquisitions in the future. On January 3, 2006, we completed an acquisition of 1183011 Alberta Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Airborne Energy Solutions Ltd., through the purchase of all common shares outstanding for cash for a total purchase price of Cdn. $41.7 million (U.S. $35.8 million). In addition, we assumed debt, net of working capital, totaling approximately Cdn. $10.0 million (U.S. $8.6 million). Nabors Blue Sky Ltd. (formerly 1183011 Alberta Ltd.) owns 42 helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft and owns and operates a fleet of heliportable well-service equipment. On May 31, 2006, we completed an acquisition of Pragma Drilling Equipment Ltd.’s business, which manufactures catwalks, iron roughnecks and other related oilfield equipment, through an asset purchase consisting primarily of intellectual property for a total purchase price of Cdn. $36.5 million (U.S. $33.1 million). Additional cash purchase consideration, up to a maximum of Cdn. $12.0 million (U.S. $10.3 million), will be due if certain specified financial performance targets are achieved over a one-year period commencing on June 30, 2006. From time to time, we may sell a subsidiary or group of assets outside of our core markets or business, if it is economically advantageous for us to do so. New Rig Build Program. Since early 2005, we have expanded our capital expenditure programs and are building new rigs in significant quantities for the first time in over 20 years. The majority of these expenditures are for new state-of-the-art drilling rigs, nearly all of which are secured by term contracts that provide surety of cash flow to pay for a substantial portion of the associated capital investment. In conjunction with these programs, we have ordered 134 new drilling rigs and received 53 of these prior to February 7, 2007, of which 49 land rigs and 4 offshore rigs are currently working. As of February 7, 2007, we had signed contracts or letters of intent for 117 of these rigs; 80 for our U.S. Lower 48 Land Drilling operations, 6 for our Canadian drilling operations, 2 for our Alaskan operations, 2 for our U.S. Offshore operations and 27 for our International operations. Additionally, our Canadian drilling unit is adding 13 coiled tubing/stem drilling rigs to its fleet; 6 of which are already working and 7 of which, we expect to be delivered during 2007 and 2008. Additionally, our well-servicing unit expects to add approximately 200 newly built workover and well-servicing rigs to meet growing demand for their services. Forty of these rigs have been delivered as of February 7, 2007 and the balance is expected to be in service by the end of 2008. Environmental Compliance. Nabors does not presently anticipate that compliance with currently applicable environmental regulations and controls will significantly change its competitive position, capital spending or earnings during 2007. Nabors believes it is in material compliance with applicable environmental rules and regulations, and the cost of such compliance is not material to the business or financial condition of Nabors. For a more detailed description of the environmental laws and regulations applicable to Nabors operations, see below under Part I — Item 1A. — Risk Factors — Changes to or noncompliance with governmental regulation or exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect Nabors’ results of operations. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating Nabors. Fluctuations in oil and gas prices could adversely affect drilling activity and our revenues, cash flows and profitability Our operations are materially dependent upon the level of activity in oil and gas exploration and production. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil and gas prices affect the level of such activity. Oil and gas prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration and production activity can be volatile. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, may affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and gas. Weather conditions, governmental regulation (both in the United States and elsewhere), levels of consumer demand, the availability of pipeline capacity, and other factors beyond our control may also affect the supply of and demand for oil and gas. We believe that any prolonged reduction in oil and gas prices would depress the level of exploration and production activity. This would likely result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Lower oil and gas prices could also cause our 7 Table of Contents customers to seek to terminate, renegotiate or fail to honor our drilling contracts; affect the fair market value of our rig fleet which in turn could trigger a write-down for accounting purposes; affect our ability to retain skilled rig personnel; and affect our ability to obtain access to capital to finance and grow our business. There can be no assurances as to the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and gas and oilfield services industries. We operate in a highly competitive industry with excess drilling capacity, which may adversely affect our results of operations The oilfield services industry in which we operate is very competitive. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Many drilling, workover and well-servicing rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity and provided market conditions warrant, which may result in an oversupply of rigs in an area. In many markets in which we operate, the number of rigs available for use exceeds the demand for rigs, resulting in price competition. Most drilling and workover contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. The land drilling market generally is more competitive than the offshore drilling market because there are larger numbers of rigs and competitors. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling, workover and well-servicing industries, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of hole, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental damage and damage to the property of others. Our offshore operations are also subject to the hazards of marine operations including capsizing, grounding, collision, damage from hurricanes and heavy weather or sea conditions and unsound ocean bottom conditions. In addition, our international operations are subject to risks of war, civil disturbances or other political events. Generally, drilling contracts provide for the division of responsibilities between a drilling company and its customer, and we seek to obtain indemnification from our customers by contract for certain of these risks. To the extent that we are unable to transfer such risks to customers by contract or indemnification agreements, we seek protection through insurance. However, there is no assurance that such insurance or indemnification agreements will adequately protect us against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, there can be no assurance that insurance will be available to cover any or all of these risks, or, even if available, that it will be adequate or that insurance premiums or other costs will not rise significantly in the future, so as to make such insurance prohibitive. It is possible that we will face continued upward pressure in our upcoming insurance renewals and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or more expensive than it has been in the past. Moreover, our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form of a deductible. We may choose to increase the levels of deductibles (and thus assume a greater degree of risk) from time to time in order to minimize the overall cost to the Company. The profitability of our international operations could be adversely affected by war, civil disturbance or political or economic turmoil We derive a significant portion of our business from international markets, including major operations in Canada, the Middle East, the Far East and South and Central America. These operations are subject to various risks, including the risk of war, civil disturbances and governmental activities that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. In certain countries, our operations may be subject to the additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange controls. In the international markets in which we operate, we are subject to various laws and regulations that govern the operation and taxation of our business and the import and export of our equipment from country to country, the imposition, application and interpretation of which can prove to be uncertain. Changes to or noncompliance with governmental regulation or exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations The drilling of oil and gas wells is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations. Our cost of compliance with these laws and regulations may be substantial. For example, federal law imposes a variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages from such spills. As an 8 Table of Contents owner and operator of onshore and offshore rigs and transportation equipment, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under federal law. In addition, our well-servicing, workover and production services operations routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous substances. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous state and federal environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks and the use of underground injection wells. We generally require customers to contractually assume responsibility for compliance with environmental regulations. However, we are not always successful in allocating to customers all of these risks nor is there any assurance that the customer will be financially able to bear those risks assumed. We employ personnel responsible for monitoring environmental compliance and arranging for remedial actions that may be required from time to time and also use outside experts to advise on and assist with our environmental compliance efforts. Liabilities are recorded when the need for environmental assessments and/or remedial efforts become known or probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent than in the past and are expected to continue to become more so. Violation of environmental laws and regulations can lead to the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial obligations, and in some cases injunctive relief. Such violations could also result in liabilities for personal injuries, property damage, and other costs and claims. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, and related state laws and regulations, liability can be imposed jointly on the entire group of responsible parties or separately on any one of the responsible parties, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. Under CERCLA, such persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. Changes in federal and state environmental regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on us. For example, legislation has been proposed from time to time in Congress which would reclassify certain oil and natural gas production wastes as hazardous wastes, which would make the reclassified wastes subject to more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If enacted, such legislation could dramatically increase operating costs for oil and natural gas companies and could reduce the market for our services by making many wells and/or oilfields uneconomical to operate. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, contains provisions specifying responsibility for removal costs and damages resulting from discharges of oil into navigable waters or onto the adjoining shorelines. In addition, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act provides the federal government with broad discretion in regulating the leasing of offshore oil and gas production sites. Because our offshore support vessel operations rely on offshore oil and gas exploration and production, if the government were to exercise its authority under this law to restrict the availability of offshore oil and gas leases, such an action could have a material adverse effect on our offshore support vessel operations. Recent legislation could curtail our ability to time charter vessels in U.S. coastwise trade Our Sea Mar division time charters supply vessels to offshore operators in U.S. waters. The vessels are owned by one of our financing company subsidiaries, but are operated and managed by a U.S. citizen-controlled company pursuant to long-term bareboat charters. As a result of recent legislation, beginning in August 2007, Sea Mar will no longer be able to use this arrangement to qualify vessels for employment in the U.S. coastwise trade. Accordingly, we will be required to restructure the arrangement, redeploy the vessels outside the U.S., or sell the vessels by no later than such time. As of December 31, 2006, the net assets of Sea Mar totaled approximately $154.4 million. During 2006 Sea Mar had income before income taxes totaling $43.3 million. As a holding company, we depend on our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. In order to meet our financial needs, we rely exclusively on repayments of interest and principal on intercompany loans made by us to our operating subsidiaries and income from dividends and other cash flow from such subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that our operating subsidiaries will generate sufficient net income to pay upstream dividends or cash flow to make payments of interest and principal to us in respect of their intercompany loans. In addition, from time to time, our operating subsidiaries 9 Table of Contents may enter into financing arrangements which may contractually restrict or prohibit such upstream payments to us. There may also be adverse tax consequences associated with making dividend payments upstream. We do not currently intend to pay dividends We have not paid any cash dividends on our common shares since 1982. Nabors does not currently intend to pay any cash dividends on its common shares. However, we note that there have been recent positive industry trends and changes in tax law providing more favorable treatment of dividends. As a result, we can give no assurance that we will not reevaluate our position on dividends in the future. Because our option, warrant and convertible securities holders have a considerable number of common shares available for issuance and resale, significant issuances or resales in the future may adversely affect the market price of our common shares As of February 22, 2007, we had 800,000,000 authorized common shares, of which 278,315,153 shares were outstanding. In addition, 39,948,230 common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to option and employee benefit plans, and 99,156,387 shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of outstanding zero coupon convertible debentures and zero coupon senior exchangeable notes. In addition, up to 168,738 of our common shares could be issuable on exchange of the shares of Nabors Exchangeco (Canada) Inc. We also may sell up to $700 million of securities of various types in connection with a shelf registration statement declared effective on January 16, 2003 by the SEC. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, whether directly by us or resulting from the exercise of warrants or options (and, where applicable, sales pursuant to Rule 144) or the conversion into common shares, or repurchase of debentures and notes using common shares, would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Provisions of our organizational documents may deter a change of control transaction and decrease the likelihood of a shareholder receiving a change of control premium Our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue a significant amount of common shares and up to 25,000,000 preferred shares and to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of the preferred shares, in each case without further vote or action by the holders of the common shares. Although we have no present plans to issue preferred shares, the classified board and our board’s ability to issue additional preferred shares may discourage, delay or prevent changes in control of Nabors that are not supported by our board, thereby possibly preventing certain of our shareholders from realizing a possible premium on their shares. In addition, the requirement in the indenture for our $2.75 billion senior exchangeable notes due 2011 and Series B of our $700 million zero coupon senior exchangeable notes due 2023 to pay a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the exchange rate in certain circumstances could have the effect of making a change in control of Nabors more expensive. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding As a result of the completion of the private placement of $2.75 billion 0.94% senior exchangeable notes due 2011 during the second quarter of 2006, and the redemption of 93% or $769.8 million of our $1.2 billion zero coupon senior convertible debentures due 2021 during the first quarter of 2006 (resulting in a remaining outstanding balance for our zero coupon senior convertible debentures of approximately $82.8 million as of December 31, 2006), we have approximately $4.0 billion in debt outstanding, resulting in a gross funded debt to capital ratio of 0.50:1 and a net funded debt to capital ratio of 0.37:1 at December 31, 2006. The gross funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing funded debt by funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short-term borrowings, (2) current portion of long-term debt and (3) long-term debt. Capital is defined as shareholders’ equity. The net funded debt to capital ratio is calculated by dividing net funded debt by net funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities net of deferred tax assets plus capital. Net funded debt is defined as the sum of (1) short-term borrowings, (2) current portion of long-term debt and (3) long-term debt reduced by the sum of cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments. Capital is defined as shareholders’ equity. Both of these ratios are methods for calculating the amount of leverage a company has in relation to its capital. As a result of these transactions, we have increased our indebtedness by approximately $2.0 billion during 2006, which could adversely affect our senior unsecured debt rating, the ratings of our outstanding indebtedness and the value of our notes. Our ability to perform under new contracts and to grow our business as forecasted depends to a substantial degree on timely delivery of rigs and equipment from our suppliers 10 Table of Contents The forecasted growth in the operating revenues and net income for our Contract Drilling subsidiaries depends to a substantial degree on the timely delivery of rigs and equipment from our suppliers as part of our recently expanded capital programs. We can give no assurances that our suppliers will meet expected delivery schedules for delivery of these new rigs and equipment. Delays in the delivery of new rigs and equipment could cause us to fail to meet our operating forecasts and could subject us to late delivery penalties under contracts with our customers. We may have additional tax liabilities We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. It is possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could have an impact on our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date as well as future tax savings as a result of our corporate reorganization, depending on any responsive action taken by us. On May 31, 2006, Nabors International Finance Inc. (“NIFI”), a wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary of Nabors, received from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) two Notices of Proposed Adjustment (“NOPA”) in connection with an audit of NIFI for tax years 2002 and 2003. One NOPA proposes to deny a deduction of $85.1 million in interest expense in our 2002 tax year relating to intercompany indebtedness incurred in connection with our inversion transaction in June 2002 whereby we were reorganized as a Bermuda company. The second NOPA proposes to deny a deduction of $207.6 million in the same item of interest expense in our 2003 tax year. On August 9, 2006, NIFI received a Revenue Agent Report, asserting the adjustments relating to the two NOPAs referred to above. On September 18, 2006, NIFI filed a protest with the IRS related to the two adjustments and we intend to contest the IRS position vigorously. We previously had obtained advice from our tax advisors that the deduction of such amounts was appropriate and more recently that the position of the IRS lacks merit. At the end of 2003 the Company paid off approximately one-half of the intercompany indebtedness incurred in connection with the inversion. It is likely that the IRS will propose the disallowance of these deductions upon audit of NIFI’s 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years. We currently have not recorded any reserves for such proposed adjustments. On September 14, 2006, Nabors Drilling International Limited (“NDIL”), a wholly-owned Bermuda subsidiary of Nabors, received a Notice of Assessment (the “Notice”) from the Mexican Servicio de Administracion Tributaria (the “SAT”) in connection with the audit of NDIL’s Mexican branch for tax year 2003. The Notice proposes to deny a depreciation expense deduction that relates to drilling rigs operating in Mexico in 2003, as well as a deduction for payments made to an affiliated company for the provision of labor services in Mexico. The amount assessed by the SAT is approximately $19.8 million (including interest and penalties). Nabors and its tax advisors previously concluded that the deduction of said amounts was appropriate and more recently that the position of the SAT lacks merit. Nabors has not recorded any reserves for the adjustments proposed by the SAT. NDIL’s Mexican branch took similar deductions for depreciation and labor expenses in 2004, 2005 and 2006. It is likely that the SAT will propose the disallowance of these deductions upon audit of NDIL’s Mexican branch’s 2004, 2005 and 2006 tax years. Proposed tax legislation could mitigate or eliminate the benefits of our 2002 reorganization as a Bermuda company Various bills have been introduced in Congress which could reduce or eliminate the tax benefits associated with our reorganization as a Bermuda company. Legislation enacted by Congress in 2004 provides that a corporation that reorganized in a foreign jurisdiction on or after March 4, 2003 shall be treated as a domestic corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. Nabors’ reorganization was completed June 24, 2002. The Senate recently passed a bill that would, among other things, beginning January 1, 2007, make the 2004 legislation applicable to certain companies that completed such reorganizations on or after March 20, 2002. The House version of this bill that does not contain such provisions. Because we cannot predict whether legislation will ultimately be adopted, no assurance can be given that the tax benefits associated with our reorganization will ultimately accrue to the benefit of the Company and its shareholders. It is possible that future changes to the tax laws (including tax treaties) could have an impact on our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date as well as future tax savings resulting from our reorganization. Legal proceedings could affect our financial condition and results of operations We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings which include employment, tort, intellectual property and other claims, including most recently, a purported shareholder derivative action related to our stock option grants and related practices, procedures and accounting. We also are subject to complaints or allegations from former, current or prospective employees from time to time, alleging violations of employment-related laws. Lawsuits or claims could result in decisions against us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are the subject of an SEC informal inquiry related to our stock option granting practices and procedures, the outcome of which could adversely affect our business. In a letter dated December 28, 2006, the SEC staff advised us that it had commenced an informal inquiry regarding our stock option grants and related practices, procedures and accounting. We are cooperating with this inquiry. A more detailed discussion of this matter is contained in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” It is not possible at this early stage to predict the likely outcome of this inquiry or whether the SEC staff will take a position contrary to the Company’s position, but it is possible the ultimate result of the inquiry could have an adverse effect on us, our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 