D. Risk Factors. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading prices of our shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and affect your investment. Market fluctuations could harm our businesses Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions in Japan and elsewhere around the world. Market downturns can occur not only as a result of purely economic 4 Table of Contents factors, but also as a result of war, act of terrorism, natural disasters or other similar events. A sustained market downturn can adversely affect our business and can result in substantial losses. Even in the absence of a prolonged market downturn, we may incur substantial losses due to market volatility. Our brokerage and asset management revenues may decline A market downturn could result in a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions because of a decline in the volume of brokered securities transactions that we execute for our customers. Also, in most cases, we charge fees for managing our clients’ portfolios that are based on the value of their portfolios. A market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios, increases the amount of withdrawals or reduces the amount of new investments in these portfolios would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management businesses. Our investment banking revenues may decline Unfavorable financial or economic conditions would likely reduce the number and size of transactions for which we provide securities underwriting, financial advisory and other investment banking services. Our investment banking revenues, which include fees from these services, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would therefore decrease if there is a sustained market downturn. We may incur significant losses from our trading and investment activities We maintain large trading and investment positions in the fixed income and equity markets, both for our own account and for the purpose of facilitating our customers’ trades. Our positions consist of various types of asset, including financial derivatives transactions in the interest rate, credit, equity, currency, commodity, real estate and other markets. Market fluctuations can adversely affect the value of these assets. To the extent that we own assets, or have long positions, a market downturn could result in losses if the value of these long positions decreases. Furthermore, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own, or have short positions, a market upturn could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We utilize various hedging techniques to mitigate these position risks. We can incur losses if the markets move in a way we have not anticipated, as a result of specific events such as the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 or the Russian economic crisis in 1998. Also, we face losses if the level of market volatility differs from our expectation, which may occur particularly in the emerging markets. In addition, we commit capital to take relatively large position for underwriting or warehousing assets to facilitate certain capital market transactions. We may incur significant losses from these activities. Holding large and concentrated positions of securities and other assets may expose us to large losses Concentration of risk can expose us to large losses in our businesses such as market-making, block trading, underwriting and acquiring newly-issued convertible bonds through third-party allotment. We have committed substantial amounts of capital to these businesses. This often requires us to take large positions in the securities of a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. For example, we previously held a large inventory for commercial mortgage-backed securities in our U.S. operations, the value of which seriously deteriorated after bond investors took flight from these investments in August 1998. Extended market decline can reduce liquidity and lead to material losses Extended market decline can reduce the level of market activity. If we cannot properly close out our associated positions, in particular over-the-counter derivatives, we may incur substantial losses due to the difficulty of monitoring prices in a less liquid market. Our hedging strategies may not prevent losses We use a variety of instruments and strategies to hedge our exposure to various types of risk. If our hedging strategies are not effective, we may incur losses. We base many of our hedging strategies on historical trading 5 Table of Contents patterns and correlations. For example, if we hold a long position in an asset, we may hedge this position by taking a short position in an asset where the short position has, historically, moved in a direction that would offset a change in value in the long position. However, historical trading patterns and correlations may not continue, and these hedging strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in managing market risk Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon observed historical market behavior. This historical market behavior may not continue in future periods. As a result, we may suffer losses by being unable to predict future risk exposures that could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods that we use also rely on our evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters, which information is publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated, in which case we may be unable to properly assess our risks. Market risk may increase the other risks that we face In addition to the potentially adverse effects on our businesses described above, market risk could exacerbate other risks that we face. For example, the risks associated with new products through financial engineering/innovation may be increased by market risk. Also, if we incur substantial trading losses, our need for liquidity could rise sharply while our access to cash may be impaired. Furthermore, if there is a market downturn, our customers and counterparties could incur substantial losses of their own, thereby weakening their financial condition and, as a result, increasing our credit risk exposure to them. Our liquidity risk and credit risk are described below. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition Liquidity, or having ready access to cash, is essential to our businesses. In addition to maintaining a readily available cash position, we seek to enhance our liquidity through repurchase and securities lending transactions, access to long-term debt, diversification of our short-term funding sources such as commercial paper, and by holding a portfolio of highly liquid assets. We bear the risk that we may lose liquidity under certain circumstances, including the following: We may be unable to access the debt capital markets We depend on continuous access to the debt capital markets to finance our day-to-day operations. An inability to raise money in the long-term or short-term debt markets, or to engage in repurchase agreements and securities lending, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. For example, lenders could refuse to extend the credit necessary for us to conduct our business because of their assessment of our long-term or short-term financial prospects: • if we incur large trading losses, • if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn, or • if regulatory authorities take significant action against us. Our ability to borrow in the debt markets also could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the prospects for the investment banking, securities or financial services industries generally. For example, in 1998 and 1999, as a result of concerns regarding asset quality and the failure of several large Japanese financial institutions, some international lenders charged an additional risk premium to Japanese financial institutions for short-term borrowings in the interbank market and restricted the availability of credit they were willing to extend. This additional risk premium, commonly known as “Japan premium”, may be imposed again. 6 Table of Contents In particular, we may be unable to access the short-term debt markets We depend primarily on the issuance of commercial paper and short-term bank loans as a principal source of unsecured short-term funding of our operations. Our liquidity depends largely on our ability to refinance these borrowings on a continuous basis. Investors who hold our outstanding commercial paper and other short-term debt instruments have no obligation to purchase new instruments when the outstanding instruments mature. We may be unable to obtain short-term financing from banks to make up any shortfall. We may be unable to sell assets If we are unable to borrow in the debt capital markets or if our cash balances decline significantly, we will need to liquidate our assets or take other actions in order to meet our maturing liabilities. In volatile or uncertain market environments, overall market liquidity may decline. In a time of reduced market liquidity, we may be unable to sell some of our assets, which could adversely affect our liquidity, or we may have to sell assets at depressed prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. Our ability to sell our assets may be impaired by other market participants seeking to sell similar assets into the market at the same time. For example, after the Russian economic crisis in 1998, the liquidity of some of our assets, including Russian bonds and other assets, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities, was significantly reduced by simultaneous attempts by us and other market participants to sell similar assets. Lowering of our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. Rating agencies may reduce or withdraw their ratings or place us on “credit watch” with negative implications. A reduction in our credit ratings, or being placed on “credit watch” with negative implications, could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. This, in turn, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our liquidity. For example, in 1998, after a series of credit rating downgrades, we experienced an increase in borrowing costs and reduced access to short-term funding sources—particularly in connection with our operations in Europe and the United States. Event risk may cause losses in our trading and investment assets as well as market and liquidity risk Event risk refers to potential losses in value we may suffer through unpredictable events that cause large unexpected market price moves. These include not only the events such as the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 and the Russian economic crisis in 1998 that resulted in losses to our business but also the following types of events that could cause losses on our trading and investment assets: • sudden and significant changes in credit ratings with regard to our trading and investment assets by rating agencies that have significant presence and influence on the market, • sudden changes in trading, tax, accounting and other related rules which may make our trading strategy obsolete or less competitive, or • the failure of corporate actions such as M&A with respect to our trading and investment assets. Losses caused by financial or other problems of third parties may expose us to credit risk Our counterparties are from time to time indebted to us as a result of transactions or contracts, including loans, commitments to lend, other contingent liabilities, and derivatives transactions such as swaps and options. We may incur material losses when our counterparties default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, deterioration in their creditworthiness, lack of liquidity, operational failure, an economic or political event, or other reasons. This risk may arise from: • holding securities of third parties, 7 Table of Contents • entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us, • executing securities, futures, currency or derivative trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries, or • extending credit to our clients through bridge or margin loans or other arrangements. Problems related to third party credit risk may include the following: Defaults by a large financial institution could adversely affect the financial markets generally and us specifically The commercial soundness of many financial institutions is closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships among the institutions. As a result, concern about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems or losses in, or defaults by, other institutions. This may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis. Actual defaults, increases in perceived default risk and other similar events could arise in the future and could have an adverse effect on the financial markets and on us. We may suffer financially if major Japanese financial institutions fail or experience severe liquidity or solvency problems. There can be no assurance as to the accuracy of the information about, or the sufficiency of the collateral we use in managing, our credit risk We regularly review our credit exposure to specific customers or counterparties and to specific countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns. Default risk, however, may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the risks of a counterparty. In addition, in cases where we have extended credit against collateral, we may find that we have insufficient value in the collateral. For example, if sudden declines in market values reduce the value of our collateral, we may become undersecured. Our customers and counterparties may be unable to perform their obligations to us as a result of economic or political conditions Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk, as well as market risk. Economic or political pressures in a country or region, including those arising from local market disruptions or currency crises, may adversely affect the ability of clients or counterparties located in that country or region to obtain credit or foreign exchange, and therefore to perform their obligations owed to us. The financial services industry is intensely competitive and rapidly consolidating The businesses we are in are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. In recent years, we have experienced intense price competition in brokerage, underwriting and other businesses. There has also been increased competition in terms of delivery of value-added services to customers, such as corporate advisory services. Competition with on-line securities companies in Japan is insensifying Since the late 1990s, the financial services sector in Japan has been deregulated. Banks and other types of financial institutions can compete with us to a greater degree than they could before deregulation in the areas of financing and investment trusts. Moreover, since the full deregulation of stock brokerage commission rates in October 1999, competition in the domestic brokerage market has intensified. A number of securities companies 8 Table of Contents in Japan, especially small and medium-sized firms, including those that specialize in on-line securities brokerage, are offering securities brokerage services at low commission rates. In response to commission deregulation, we also restructured our stock brokerage commissions to offer lower commissions depending on the trading amount and the type of customer account. Additionally, some on-line securities companies have recently tried to offer underwriting services for initial public offerings at dramatically reduced commission rates in order to gain market share. Should this strategy become more prevalent and prove successful, we would have to respond by offering lower commissions in order to retain our market share. We may continue to experience pricing pressures in the future. Competition with securities companies affiliated with Japanese commercial banks is increasing In recent years, securities companies affiliated with Japanese commercial banks have been increasing their market shares in the underwriting business, especially with respect to corporate bonds issued by Japanese companies, thereby undercutting our share. Some of these securities companies have been successful in capturing the lead underwriter’s position in major corporate bond offerings. Competition with non-Japanese firms in the Japanese market is increasing Competition from non-Japanese firms has also increased through their presence in Japan, especially in the areas of securities underwriting and corporate advisory services, particularly M&A advisory services. Increased domestic and global consolidation in the financial services industry means increased competition for us In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions in Japan and overseas. Particularly in Japan, other major securities companies have recently been seeking to form business alliances with major commercial banks, reportedly with a view to an eventual consolidation of those financial institutions, in order to be able to increase their competitiveness and market share by combining banking and other financial services. Through such business alliances and consolidations, these other securities companies and commercial banks have, or would have, the ability to offer a wide range of products, including loans, deposit-taking, insurance, brokerage, asset management and investment banking services. This diversity of services offered are enhancing, or would enhance, their competitive position compared with us. They also have the ability to supplement their investment banking and securities business with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share. We may lose our market share as these large, consolidated firms expand their business. Our ability to expand internationally will depend on our ability to compete successfully with financial institutions in international markets We believe that significant challenges and opportunities will arise for us outside of Japan. In order to take advantage of these opportunities, we will have to compete successfully with financial institutions based in important non-Japanese markets, including the United States, Europe and Asia. Some of these financial institutions are larger, better capitalized and have a stronger local presence and a longer operating history in these markets. Operational risk may disrupt our businesses, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth We face the following types of operational risk, and if such risk materializes, we could suffer financial losses, disruption in our business, litigation from relevant parties, regulatory intervention or reputational damage: • suffering damages due to failure to settle securities transactions, 9 Table of Contents • suffering damages due to failure by officers or employees to perform proper administrative activities prescribed in regular procedures, • suffering damages due to suspension or malfunction of systems, most of which are developed and maintained by our affiliate, Nomura Research Institute, Ltd., • suffering damages as a result of the destruction of our facilities or systems due to large-scale disasters or criminal actions, or • suffering damages as a result of the restriction of our business operation or investment activities due to social confusion from political reasons. Our business is subject to substantial legal and regulatory risk, to regulatory changes and reputation risk Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material financial effect or cause reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously damage our business prospects. Also, material changes in regulations applicable to us or to our market could adversely affect our business. Our exposure to legal liability is significant We face significant legal risks in our businesses. These risks include liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities underwriting and offering transactions, potential liability for advice we provide in corporate transactions, disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements or the validity of contracts for transactions with us and legal claims concerning our merchant banking business. During a prolonged market downturn, we would expect claims against us to increase. We may also face significant litigation. The cost of defending such litigation may be substantial and our involvement in litigation may damage our reputation. In addition, even legal transactions might be subject to social criticism according to the particulars or situations of such transactions. These risks may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Extensive regulation of our businesses limits our activities and may subject us to significant penalties The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in Japan and in virtually all other jurisdictions in which we operate. These regulations are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. These regulations are not designed to protect our shareholders and often limit our activities, through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. We face the risk that regulatory authorities may intervene in our businesses through extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations or judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. We could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, or be subject to the temporary or long-term suspension or revocation of our legal authorization to conduct business. Our reputation could also suffer from the adverse publicity that any administrative or judicial sanction against us may create. As a result of such sanction, we may lose business opportunities for a period of time, even after the sanction is lifted, if and to the extent that our customers, especially public institutions, decide not to engage us for their financial transactions. Material changes in regulations applicable to us or to our market could adversely affect our business If regulations that apply to our businesses are introduced, modified or removed, we could be adversely affected directly or through resulting changes in market conditions. For example, in September 2002, the Financial Services Agency of Japan abolished restrictions on sharing common office space between banks and their affiliated securities companies. Also, in accordance with the amendments to the Securities and Exchange Law effective from December 1, 2004, banks and certain other financial institutions became able to act as agents 10 Table of Contents of securities companies in the securities brokerage business and therefore increasing competition. Furthermore, we may face additional regulations on trading or other activities that may lead to a reduction of the market liquidity, trading volume or market participants. Such regulatory action may damage the Japanese markets as our main revenue source. Misconduct by an employee, Director or Executive Officer could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter We face the risk that misconduct by an employee, Director or Executive Officer could occur. Misconduct by an employee, Director or Executive Officer could bind us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, or hide from us unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, which, in either case, may result in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses. Misconduct by an employee, Director or Executive Officer could also involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions, legal liability and serious reputational or financial damage to us. We may not always be able to deter misconduct by an employee, Director or Executive Officer and the precautions we take to prevent and detect misconduct may not be effective in all cases. Unauthorized disclosure of personal information held by us may adversely affect our business We keep and manage personal information obtained from customers in relation to our business. In recent years, there have been many cases of personal information and records in the possession of corporations and institutions being improperly accessed or disclosed. The standards relating to protection of personal information that apply to us have become more stringent under the Law Concerning Protection of Personal Information and rules, regulations and guidelines relating thereto. As an institution in possession of personal information, we may have to provide compensation for economic loss and emotional distress arising out of a failure to protect such information in accordance with this law. The provisions of this law applicable to us became effective on April 1, 2005. Although we exercise care in protecting the confidentiality of personal information and take steps to ensure security of such information, if any material unauthorized disclosure of personal information does occur, our business could be adversely affected in a number of ways. For example, we could be subject to complaints and lawsuits for damages from customers if they are adversely affected as a result of the release of their personal information. In addition, we could incur additional expenses associated with changing our security systems, either voluntarily or in response to administrative guidance or other regulatory initiatives, or in connection with public relations campaigns designed to prevent or mitigate damage to our corporate or brand image or reputation. Any such damage us or our reputation could lead to a decline in new customers and/or a loss of existing customers, as well as to increased costs and expenses in dealing with any such problems. We may not be able to realize gains we expect on our private equity investments As discussed in “Private Equity Business” under item 5.A. of this annual report, we restructured our European private equity business in 2002. Following the restructuring, the investments that comprised the ‘old’ Principal Finance Group (PFG) are now managed by Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. (TFCPL), an independent private equity firm, which was founded by a number of ex-Nomura employees. Under the legal agreements between the two parties, TFCPL has been appointed as sole, discretionary manager of the investments and has full autonomy over all decisions regarding how these investments are run and managed, including appointing management, setting and agreeing strategic direction and determining how and when the investments are eventually exited. Nomura as a passive investor in respect of the Terra Firma investments, cannot take any action in respect of TFCPL or any of the underlying investments and has no Board of Director representation in any of the underlying investee companies. The legal arrangements entered into with Terra Firma are designed to ensure an alignment of interest between Nomura as the investor and TFCPL as the discretionary manager, but Nomura does not have the ability to terminate these arrangements other than for cause. 11 Table of Contents The performance of the Terra Firma investments could have a material impact on our future financial statements. This performance in turn will be dependent on the ability of TFCPL to maximize value from the investments and also on general market conditions. The Terra Firma investments are in the residential real estate, consumer finance, retail and business process outsourcing sectors, thus any deterioration in the market conditions of these sectors in Europe could have a material impact on our future financial statements. This is especially the case if market conditions deteriorate in the residential real estate sectors in the UK and Germany, given the overall risk weighting to these sectors. Furthermore, given the large and illiquid nature of the Terra Firma investments, TFCPL, who manage these investments, may not be able to realize the value of the individual investments at a level, at the time or in a way they would wish. Inability to dispose of the underlying investments could have a material impact on our future financial statements. Also, we have a growing private equity business in Japan as discussed in “Private Equity Investments” under item 5.A. of this annual report. The investments of this business are mainly in the retail, manufacturing and theme park sectors in Japan. As the size of this business increases, any deterioration in the market conditions of these sectors and/or our inability to dispose of our private equity investments at a level, at the time or in a way we may wish, could have a material impact on our future financial statements. We may not be able to dispose of our operating investments at the time or with the speed we would like We hold substantial operating investments, which refer to investments in equity securities of companies not affiliated with us which we hold on a long-term basis in order to promote existing and potential business relationships. A substantial portion of these investments consists of equity securities of public companies in Japan. Under U.S. GAAP, depending on market conditions, we may record significant unrealized gains or losses on our operating investments, which would have a substantial impact on our income statement. Depending on the conditions of the Japanese equity markets, we may not be able to dispose of these equity securities when we would like to do so or as quickly as we may wish. Our investments in publicly-traded shares of affiliates accounted for under the equity method in our consolidated financial statements may decline significantly over a period of time and result in our incurring an impairment loss We have equity investments in affiliates accounted for under the equity method in our consolidated financial statements whose shares are publicly traded. Under U.S. GAAP, if there is a decline in the fair value, i.e., the market price, of the shares we hold in such affiliates over a period of time, and we determine, based on the guidance of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 18, “The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock”, that the decline is other than temporary, then we must record an impairment loss for the applicable fiscal period. We may face an outflow of customers’ assets due to losses of cash reserve funds or bonds we offered We offer many types of product to meet various needs of our customers with different risk profiles. Cash reserve funds, such as money management funds and money reserve funds, and Long-term Bond Investment Trusts (“Nomura Bond Fund”) are categorized as low-risk products. Such cash reserve funds may fall below par value as a result of defaults on bonds contained in the portfolio. In addition, bonds that we offer may default or experience delays in their obligation to pay interest and/or principal. Such losses in the products we offer may result in the loss of customer confidence and lead to an outflow of customer assets from our custody. Because of daily price range limitations under Japanese stock exchange rules, you may not be able to sell your shares of Nomura’s common stock at a particular price on any particular trading day, or not at all Stock prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges are order-driven markets without specialists or market makers to guide price 12 Table of Contents formation. To prevent excessive volatility, these exchanges set daily upward and downward price fluctuation limits for each stock, based on the previous day’s closing price. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his or her shares at such price on a particular trading day, or not at all. Under Japan’s unit share system, holders of our shares constituting less than one unit are subject to significant transfer, voting and other restrictions Pursuant to the Commercial Code of Japan relating to joint stock corporations and certain related legislation, our Articles of Incorporation provide that 100 shares of our stock constitute one “unit”. The Commercial Code imposes significant restrictions and limitations on holdings of shares that constitute less than a whole unit. Holders of shares constituting less than one unit do not have the right to vote or any other right relating to voting. The transferability of shares constituting less than one unit is significantly limited. Under the unit share system, holders of shares constituting less than a unit have the right to require us to purchase their shares. Also, holders of shares constituting less than a unit may request us to the effect that we sell shares which become a full unit of shares, together with the less than a unit shares owned by the registered shareholders. However, holders of ADSs are unable to withdraw underlying shares representing less than one unit. Therefore, as a practical matter, they cannot require us to purchase these underlying shares. As a result, holders of ADSs representing shares in lots of less than one unit may not have access to the Japanese markets to sell their shares through the withdrawal mechanism. As a holder of ADSs, you will have fewer rights than a shareholder has and you will have to act through the depositary to exercise these rights The rights of the shareholders under Japanese law to take actions including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining the company’s accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to holders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agent, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying your ADSs as instructed by you and will pay to you the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights except through the depositary. Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be more limited than under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States Our Articles of Incorporation, our Regulations of the Board of Directors and the Japanese Commercial Code govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and executive officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ rights may be different from those that would apply if we were a non-Japanese company. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction within the United States. It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our Directors or Executive Officers, or to enforce against us or those persons judgments obtained in United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States We are a limited liability, joint-stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Most of our Directors and Executive Officers reside in Japan. Many of our assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect 13 Table of Contents service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce against us or these persons judgments obtained in the United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We believe that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or inactions for enforcement of judgment of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements This annual report contains forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about our business, our industry and capital markets around the world. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may”, “will”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan” or similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, identify strategies, contain projections of our results of operations or financial condition, or state other forward-looking information. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance, achievements or financial position to differ materially from any future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by any forward-looking statement contained in this annual report. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors are set forth in this Item 3.D and elsewhere in this annual report. 