Item 1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 24 PART II Item 5. Market Price of and Dividends on the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 55 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 141 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 141 Item 9B. Other Information 143 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 144 Item 11. Executive Compensation 144 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 144 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 146 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 147 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 148 2 Table of Contents Our internet address is www.nabors.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). In addition, a glossary of drilling terms used in this document and documents relating to our corporate governance (such as committee charters, governance guidelines and other internal policies) can be found on our website. The public may read and copy any material that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Reference in this document to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We often discuss expectations regarding our future markets, demand for our products and services, and our performance in our annual, quarterly and current reports, press releases, and other written and oral statements. Statements relating to matters that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These "forward-looking statements" are based on an analysis of currently available competitive, financial and economic data and our operating plans. They are inherently uncertain and investors should recognize that events and actual results could turn out to be significantly different from our expectations. By way of illustration, when used in this document, words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "plan," "intend," "estimate," "project," "will," "should," "could," "may," "predict" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Factors to consider when evaluating these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: • fluctuations in worldwide prices of and demand for oil and natural gas; • fluctuations in levels of oil and natural gas exploration and development activities; • fluctuations in the demand for our services; • the existence of competitors, technological changes and developments in the oilfield services industry; • our ability to complete, and realize the expected benefits of, strategic transactions, including the proposed transaction with C&J Energy Services, Inc.; • the existence of operating risks inherent in the oilfield services industry; • the possibility of changes in tax and other laws and regulations; • the possibility of political instability, war or acts of terrorism; and • general economic conditions including the capital and credit markets. Our businesses depend to a large degree on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Therefore, a sustained increase or decrease in the price of oil or natural gas that has a material impact on exploration, development or production activities could also materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 3 Table of Contents The above description of risks and uncertainties is not all-inclusive, but highlights certain factors that we believe are important for your consideration. For a more detailed description of risk factors, please refer to Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors. Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "we," "us," "our," "the Company," or "Nabors" mean Nabors Industries Ltd., together with our subsidiaries where the context requires, including Nabors Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Nabors Delaware"), our wholly owned subsidiary. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We own and operate the world's largest land-based drilling rig fleet and have one of the largest completion services and well-servicing and workover rig fleets in North America. We are a leading provider of offshore platform workover and drilling rigs in the United States and multiple international markets. As a global provider of services for land-based and offshore oil and natural gas wells, our fleet of rigs and drilling-related equipment as of December 31, 2014 includes: • 466 actively marketed rigs for land-based drilling operations in the United States, Canada and over 20 other countries throughout the world; • 445 actively marketed rigs for land well-servicing and workover services in the United States and 98 actively marketed rigs for land well-servicing and workover services in Canada; • 42 actively marketed rigs for offshore drilling operations in the United States and multiple international markets; and • approximately 800,000 hydraulic horsepower for hydraulic fracturing, cementing, nitrogen and acid pressure pumping services in key basins throughout the United States. We provide innovative drilling technology and equipment and comprehensive well-site services in many of the most significant oil and gas markets in the world, including engineering, transportation and disposal, construction, maintenance, well logging, directional drilling, rig instrumentation, data collection and other support services. In addition, we manufacture and lease or sell top drives and other rig equipment. We are a Bermuda exempted company formed on December 11, 2001, which has been continuously operating in the drilling sector through predecessors and acquired entities since the early 1900s. The majority of our business is conducted through two business lines: Drilling & Rig Services and Completion & Production Services. Additional information regarding our business segments can be found in Note 23—Segment Information in Part II, Item 8.—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In June 2014, we and certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries entered into definitive agreements to merge our Completion & Production Services business line with C&J Energy Services, Inc. ("CJES"), an independent oilfield services and manufacturing company (the "Merger"). Under the amended terms of the Merger and related transactions, we will receive total consideration comprised of approximately $688 million in cash and approximately 62.5 million common shares in the combined company. CJES has obtained commitments from certain financial institutions to provide debt financing to the combined company in an amount sufficient to fund the payment to us of the cash consideration at closing. Immediately following the closing of the Merger, we will own approximately 53% of the issued and outstanding common shares of the combined company with the other CJES shareholders owning the remainder of the outstanding common shares. The combined company will be renamed C&J Energy Services, Ltd. and is expected to be listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol CJES. We expect to account for our investment in the combined company using the equity method of accounting. Closing of the Merger is subject to customary approvals and conditions, including, among others, approval of the Merger by the holders of a majority of outstanding CJES common stock and the availability of the proceeds of the debt financing to effect the cash payment to Nabors in 5 Table of Contents connection with the closing. We expect that the closing of the Merger will occur in March 2015 following the special meeting of CJES stockholders to be held on March 20, 2015. See Part 1A.—Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Merger. Drilling & Rig Services General The Drilling & Rig Services business line is comprised of our global land-based and offshore drilling rig operations and other rig services, consisting of equipment manufacturing, rig instrumentation, optimization software and directional drilling services. Our Drilling & Rig Services business contributed 67% of our Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. This business line consists of four operating segments: U.S., Canada, International and Rig Services. U.S. Drilling We operate one of the largest land-based drilling rig fleets in the United States, consisting of 170 AC rigs and 100 SCR rigs as of December 31, 2014. Our new PACE®-X rig is the latest generation AC rig designed specifically for multi-well drilling on a single pad. As of December 31, 2014, we have placed 32 PACE®-X rigs into service. We also operate 16 platform rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In 2014, we delivered two new 4600 horsepower deepwater platform rigs, which will be among the largest and most sophisticated rigs in this category. Our U.S. drilling operations contributed 32% of our Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. Canada Drilling We operate 57 land-based drilling rigs in Canada. Our Canadian drilling operations contributed 5% of our Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. International Drilling We operate 138 land-based drilling rigs in more than 20 countries as of December 31, 2014. We also operate 19 platforms and 6 jack-up rigs in the international offshore drilling markets. We have a 51% ownership interest in a joint venture in Saudi Arabia, which owns and actively markets 5 rigs in addition to the rigs we lease to the joint venture. Many of our rigs in our international drilling markets were designed to address the challenges inherent in specific drilling applications such as those required in the desert, remote/environmentally sensitive locations and the various shale plays. We continue to upgrade and deploy high-specification desert rigs specifically for gas drilling in the Middle East. Our International drilling operations contributed 24% of our Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. Rig Services Through various subsidiaries, we manufacture and sell top drives, catwalks, wrenches, drawworks and other drilling related equipment which are installed on both onshore and offshore drilling rigs. We offer specialized drilling technologies, including patented steering systems and rig instrumentation software systems including: • ROCKIT® directional drilling system, which is used to provide data collection services to oil and gas exploration and service companies, and 6 Table of Contents • RIGWATCH® software, which is computerized software and equipment that monitors a rig's real-time performance and daily reporting for drilling operations, making this data available through the internet. We have engaged in specific acquisitions in order to develop projects to enhance our drilling related service offerings. See Acquisitions and Divestitures. Our Rig Services operations contributed 6% of our Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. Drilling Contracts Our contracts for land-based and offshore drilling have durations that are single-well, multi-well or term. Term contracts generally have durations ranging from six months to five years. Under term contracts, our rigs are committed to one customer. Offshore workover projects are often contracted on a single-well basis. We generally receive drilling contracts through competitive bidding, although we occasionally enter into contracts by direct negotiation. Most of our single-well contracts are subject to termination by the customer on short notice, while multi-well contracts and term contracts may provide us with early termination compensation in certain circumstances. Contract terms and rates differ depending on a variety of factors, including competitive conditions, the geographical area, the geological formation to be drilled, the equipment and services to be supplied, the on-site drilling conditions and the anticipated duration of the work to be performed. Our drilling contracts are typically daywork contracts. A daywork contract generally provides for a basic rate per day when drilling (the dayrate for our providing a rig and crew) and for lower rates when the rig is moving between drilling locations, or when drilling operations are interrupted or restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse weather conditions or other conditions beyond our control. In addition, daywork contracts may provide for a lump-sum fee for the mobilization and demobilization of the rig, which in most cases approximates our anticipated costs. A daywork contract differs from a footage contract (in which the drilling contractor is paid on the basis of a rate per foot drilled) and a turnkey contract (in which the drilling contractor is paid for drilling a well to a specified depth for a fixed price). See Part 1A.—Risk Factors—Our drilling contracts may in certain instances be renegotiated or terminated without an early termination payment. Completion & Production Services Our Completion & Production Services business line is comprised of our operations involved in the completion, life-of-well maintenance and plugging and abandonment of a well in the United States and Canada. These services include stimulation, coiled-tubing, cementing, wireline, workover, well-servicing and fluids management. Our Completion & Production Services business contributed 33% of our Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. This business line consists of two operating segments: Completion Services and Production Services. In connection with the Merger, this business line will be merged with CJES and we will own 53% of the combined company. Completion Services We provide a wide range of wellsite solutions to oil and natural gas companies, consisting primarily of technical pumping services, including hydraulic fracturing, a process sometimes used in the completion of oil and gas wells whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate gas and oil production, and down-hole surveying services. The completion process may involve selectively perforating the well casing at the depth of discrete producing zones, stimulating and testing these zones and installing down-hole equipment. The completion process may take a few days to several weeks. Our Completion Services operations contributed 18% of our Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. 7 Table of Contents Production Services We operate a fleet of 543 land workover and well-servicing rigs in the U.S. and Canada as of December 31, 2014, which are utilized to perform well maintenance and workover services during the production phase of an oil or natural gas well. Well maintenance services are generally performed on a call-out basis and can usually be completed within 48 hours. The services include the repair and replacement of pumps, sucker rods, tubing and other mechanical apparatuses at the wellsite that are used to pump or lift hydrocarbons from producing wells. We also utilize our well service rigs to perform plugging services for wells in which the oil and natural gas has been depleted or further production has become uneconomical. Workover services can be utilized to remedy failures, modify well depth and formation penetration to capture hydrocarbons from alternative formations, clean out and recomplete a well when production has declined, repair leaks, or convert a depleted well to an injection well for secondary or enhanced recovery projects. Workovers are typically carried out with a rig that includes standard drilling accessories such as rotary drilling equipment, pumps and tanks for drilling fluids, blowout preventers and other specialized equipment for servicing rigs. We also provide equipment, including fluid service trucks, frac tanks and salt water disposal wells, to supply, store, remove and dispose of specialized fluids utilized in the completion and workover operations used in daily operations for producing wells. Other technical services include completion, production and rental tool services. Additionally, we provide fluid logistics services, including those related to the transportation, storage and disposal of fluids that are used in the drilling, development and production of hydrocarbons. Our Production Services operations contributed 15% of our Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. Our Customers Our customers include major, national and independent oil and gas companies. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues in 2014. Our Employees As of December 31, 2014, we employed approximately 29,000 people, of whom approximately 4,300 were employed by unconsolidated affiliates. Our number of employees fluctuates depending on the current and expected demand for our services. We believe our relationship with our employees is generally good. We employed approximately 1,400 unionized employees internationally. Seasonality Our operations are subject to seasonal factors. Specifically, our drilling and workover operations in Canada and Alaska generally experience reduced levels of activity and financial results during the second quarter of each year, due to the annual spring thaw. Our pressure pumping operations located in the Appalachian, Mid-Continent, and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States can be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the spring, as many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the paved roads leading to our jobsites due to the muddy conditions and during winter months due to inclement weather. In addition, our U.S. offshore market can be impacted during summer months by tropical weather systems in the Gulf of Mexico. Global warming could lengthen these periods of reduced activity, but we cannot currently estimate to what degree. Our well-servicing and pressure pumping operations may also experience lower activity at the end of the year due to holidays and shorter daylight hours. Our overall financial results reflect the seasonal variations experienced in these operations, but seasonality does not materially impact the remaining portions of our business. 8 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development continues to be an important part of our overall business. The effective use of technology is critical to maintaining our competitive position within the drilling industry. We expect to continue developing technology internally and acquiring technology through strategic acquisitions. Industry/Competitive Conditions To a large degree, our businesses depend on the level of capital spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. During recent months, there has been substantial volatility in oil prices due to increases in global oil production with stagnant demand. For example, within the past year, oil prices have been as high as $107 per barrel and have recently been as low as $44 per barrel in 2015. Currently, based on the average crude oil price in January 2015, prices have declined approximately 49% from the average of the preceding twelve months and the decline has caused a reduction in the level of capital spending by oil companies. A prolonged period of these lower oil prices could continue to depress the level of exploration, development and production activities and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services and/or a reduction in dayrates and utilization, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect drilling activity and our revenues, cash flows and profitability. The markets in which we provide our services are highly competitive. We provide our drilling and rig services in the United States, Canada and over 20 countries throughout the world. We provide our completion and production services in the United States and Canada. We believe that competitive pricing is a significant factor in determining which service provider is awarded a job in these markets. Historically, the number of available rigs and drilling-related equipment has exceeded demand in many of the markets in which we operate, resulting in strong price competition. This is due in part to the fact that most rigs and drilling-related equipment can be readily moved from one region to another in response to changes in the levels of exploration, development and production activities and market conditions, which may result in an oversupply of rigs and drilling-related equipment in certain areas. Most available contracts for our services are currently awarded on a bid basis, which further increases competition based on price. In addition to price, other competitive factors in the markets we serve are the overall quality of service and safety record, the technical specification and condition of equipment, the availability of skilled personnel and the ability to offer ancillary services. Our drilling business is subject to certain additional competitive factors. For example, our ability to deliver rigs with new technology and features and, in certain international markets, our experience operating in certain environments and strong customer relationships have been significant factors in the selection of Nabors for the provision of drilling services. We expect that the market for our drilling and completion and production services will continue to be highly competitive. Certain competitors are present in more than one of the markets in which we operate, although no one competitor operates in all such markets. In our drilling services business, we compete with (1) Helmerich & Payne, Inc., Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and several other competitors with national, regional or local rig operations in the United States, (2) Saipem S.p.A, KCA Deutag, and Weatherford International Ltd. and others in our international markets and (3) Precision Drilling, Ensign Energy Services, and others in Canada. In our completion and production services business, we compete with (1) completion services providers in the United States and Canada, such as Halliburton, Schlumberger Limited, Baker Hughes, FTS International Services LLC., and Weatherford International Ltd. as well as other small and mid-sized independent contractors, and (2) production services providers such as Basic Energy Services, Inc., Key Energy Services, Inc., Superior Energy Services, Inc., Forbes Energy 9 Table of Contents Services Ltd. and numerous other competitors having smaller regional or local well servicing and/or fluids management operations in the United States and Precision, Ensign, and Savanna Well Servicing in Canada. Our Business Strategy Our business strategy is to build shareholder value and enhance our competitive position by: • leveraging our existing global infrastructure and operating reputation to capitalize on growth opportunities; • achieving superior operational and health, safety and environmental performance; • continuing to develop our existing portfolio of value-added services to our customers; • enhancing our technology position and advancing drilling technology both on the rig and downhole; and • achieving returns above our cost of capital. In 2014, we focused on initiatives aimed at strengthening our drilling and rig services business services, including the pending merger of our Completion & Production Services business line with CJES and completion of the sale of a significant portion of our oil and gas proved properties in Alaska in July 2014. In addition, as our customers are forced to reduce spending due to the decline in crude oil prices, we believe they will be more likely to embrace the full breadth of our services and technologies. As such, we continue to enhance our engineering and technological position in drilling and rig services, as evidenced by the acquisition in October 2014 of 2TD Drilling AS ("2TD"), a Norwegian drilling technology company developing a rotary steerable platform for directional drilling. Further, we continued our newbuild program with the delivery of 16 PACE®-X rigs during 2014, which are our latest generation rigs designed specifically for multi-well drilling on a single pad. We also completed and delivered 10 newbuild rigs in Saudi Arabia and 5 newbuild rigs in Argentina. As we move into 2015, we continue to actively pursue international prospects for these PACE®-X rigs. Our global scale and international presence provides us with a unique balance compared to other drilling contractors. Although activity in the lower 48 has been decreasing rapidly in response to the recent decline in crude oil prices, we should continue to benefit from the recent upside in international markets, such as the continued deployment of new and substantially-upgraded rig awards in Saudi Arabia, Kazakhstan and offshore Mexico. We also focused on enhancing our financial flexibility by streamlining operations, shedding non-core businesses and reducing net debt and interest expense. Acquisitions and Divestitures We have grown from a land drilling business centered in the U.S. lower 48 states, Canada and Alaska to an international business with operations on land and offshore in most of the major oil and gas markets in the world. At the beginning of 1990, our fleet consisted of 44 actively marketed land drilling rigs in Canada, Alaska and in various international markets. Today, our worldwide fleet of actively marketed rigs consists of 466 land drilling rigs, 543 rigs for land well-servicing and workover work in the United States and Canada, 36 offshore platform rigs, 7 jackup units and a large component of trucks and fluid hauling vehicles. This growth was fueled in part by strategic acquisitions. Although we continue to examine opportunities, including acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions, there can be no assurance that such opportunities will continue to be available, that the pricing will be economical or that we will be successful in making such acquisitions in the future. As noted above, we may sell a subsidiary or group of assets outside of our core markets or business if it is strategically or economically advantageous for us to do so. 10 Table of Contents In addition to the proposed Merger, we undertook the following transactions over the last three years. Acquisitions In January 2013, we purchased the business of Navigate Energy Services, Inc. ("NES") for a total cash price of approximately $37.5 million. This acquisition expanded our technology and development capability for drilling and measurement tools and services, and is included in our Rig Services operating segment. In October 2013, we purchased KVS Transportation, Inc. and D&D Equipment Investments, LLC, (collectively, "KVS") for total consideration of $149.0 million. KVS provides various logistics and support services operating in the oilfield and well-servicing industry. Services are provided by tractor trucks, bobtail trucks, winch trucks, other truck types, trailers, container bins, eyewash stations, various types of tanks, shop equipment and other related support equipment. This acquisition expanded our truck fleet, vacuum truck services, tank and related equipment services and is included in our Production Services operating segment. In October 2014, we purchased the outstanding shares of 2TD. 2TD is in the process of developing a rotary steerable system for directional drilling which, once developed, will be included in our Rig Services segment. Under the terms of the transaction, we paid an initial amount of $40.3 million for the purchase of the shares. We may also be required to make future payments of up to an additional $40.0 million, contingent on the achievement of various milestone objectives. Divestitures In 2012, we sold our remaining wholly owned oil and gas business in Colombia and sold some of our wholly owned oil and gas assets in the United States. In December 2012, we sold our 49.7% ownership interest in NFR Energy LLC, ("NFR Energy"), a U.S. unconsolidated oil and gas joint venture, to the remaining equity owners. Subsequent to this transaction, NFR Energy changed its name to Sabine Oil & Gas LLC ("Sabine"). During 2012, we received cumulative gross cash proceeds of $254.5 million from these sales of oil and gas assets. In 2013, we sold the assets of one of our former Canadian subsidiaries that provided logistics services for proceeds of $9.3 million. In addition, we sold Peak Oilfield Service Company ("Peak"), one of our businesses in Alaska, for gross cash proceeds of $135.5 million. We also sold some of our oil and gas assets and received proceeds of approximately $90.0 million. In July 2014, we sold a large portion of our interest in our oil and gas proved properties located on the North Slope of Alaska. Under the terms of the agreement, we received $35.1 million at closing and expect to receive additional payments of $27.0 million upon certain future dates or the properties achieving certain production targets. We retained a working interest at various interests and an overriding royalty interest in the properties at various interests. The working interest is fully carried up to $600 million of total project costs. The transaction generally remains subject to the approval of local Alaska regulatory authorities, among other usual and customary conditions. See Note 5—Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations for additional discussion in Part II, Item 8.—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Environmental Compliance We do not anticipate that compliance with currently applicable environmental regulations and controls will significantly change our competitive position, capital spending or earnings during 2015. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable environmental rules and regulations and that the cost of such compliance is not material to our business or financial condition. For a more detailed description of the environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations, see Part I, Item 1A.—Risk Factors—Changes to or noncompliance with governmental regulation or exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this report, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating Nabors. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Risks Related to the Business Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect drilling activity and our revenues, cash flows and profitability Our operations depend on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil and natural gas prices affect these levels. Oil and natural gas prices, as well as the level of drilling, exploration and production activity, can be highly volatile. For example, within the past year, oil prices have been as high as $107 per barrel and have recently been as low as $44 per barrel in 2015. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and natural gas. Weather conditions, governmental regulation (both in the United States and elsewhere), levels of consumer demand, the availability of pipeline capacity, and other factors beyond our control may also affect the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas. A prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could depress the level of drilling, exploration and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services and/or a reduction in dayrates and utilization, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Lower oil and natural gas prices have caused some of our customers to terminate, seek to renegotiate or fail to honor our drilling contracts and affected the fair market value of our rig fleet, which in turn has resulted in impairments of our assets. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded impairment charges of approximately $1.0 billion, reflecting the effect of the recent decline in oil prices on our assets. If there is a prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices, it could adversely impact our cash forecast models used to determine whether the carrying value of our long-lived assets exceed our future cash flows, which could result in future impairment to our long-lived assets. A prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could also affect our ability to retain skilled rig personnel and affect our ability to access capital to finance and grow our business. There can be no assurances as to the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas and oilfield services industries. We operate in a highly competitive industry with excess drilling capacity, which may adversely affect our results of operations The oilfield services industry is very competitive. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Most rigs and drilling-related equipment can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity and market conditions, which may result in an oversupply of such rigs and drilling-related equipment in certain areas, and accordingly, significant price competition. In addition, in recent years, the ability to deliver rigs with new technology and features has become an important factor in determining job awards. Our customers are increasingly demanding the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs, which requires continued technological developments and increased capital expenditures, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements for equipment. As a result of these and other competitive factors, we may be unable to maintain or increase our market share, utilization 12 Table of Contents rates and/or prices for our services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our drilling contracts may in certain instances be renegotiated or terminated without an early termination payment Most of our drilling contracts require that an early termination payment be made to us if a contract is terminated by the customer prior to its expiration. Such payments may not fully compensate us for the loss of a contract, and in certain circumstances, such as, but not limited to, destruction of a drilling rig that is not replaced within a specified period of time or other breach of our contractual obligations, the customer may not be obligated to make an early termination payment to us. During depressed market conditions or otherwise, customers may seek to terminate, renegotiate or fail to honor their contractual obligations for various reasons, including those described above. The renegotiation or termination of such contracts without an adequate early termination payment could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect our results of operations Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling, workover and well-servicing and pressure pumping industries, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of or damage to the wellbore or underground reservoir, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental and natural resources damage and damage to the property of others. Our offshore operations involve the additional hazards of marine operations including capsizing, grounding, collision, damage from hurricanes and heavy weather or sea conditions and unsound ocean bottom conditions. Our operations are also subject to risks of war, civil disturbances or other political events. Accidents may occur, we may be unable to obtain desired contractual indemnities, and our insurance may prove inadequate in certain cases. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure or inability of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of these risks. Even if available, insurance may be inadequate or insurance premiums or other costs may increase significantly in the future making insurance prohibitively expensive. We expect to continue facing upward pressure in our insurance renewals; our premiums and deductibles may be higher, and some insurance coverage may either be unavailable or more expensive than it has been in the past. Moreover, our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form of a deductible or self-insured retention. We may choose to increase the levels of deductibles (and thus assume a greater degree of risk) from time to time in order to minimize our overall costs. The profitability of our operations could be adversely affected by war, civil disturbance, terrorist activity or other political or economic instability, fluctuation in currency exchange rates and local import and export controls We derive a significant portion of our business from global markets, including major operations in Canada, South America, Mexico, the Middle East, the Far East, the South Pacific, Russia and Africa. These operations are subject to various risks, including war, civil disturbances, political or economic instability, terrorist activity and governmental actions that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. In some countries, our operations may be subject to the additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange controls. We are subject to various laws and regulations that govern the 13 Table of Contents operation and taxation of our business and the import and export of our equipment from country to country, the imposition, application and interpretation of which can prove to be uncertain. As a holding company, we depend on our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. In order to meet our financial needs, we rely exclusively on repayments of interest and principal on intercompany loans that we have made to our operating subsidiaries and income from dividends and other cash flow from our subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that our operating subsidiaries will generate sufficient net income to pay us dividends or sufficient cash flow to make payments of interest and principal to us. In addition, from time to time, our operating subsidiaries may enter into financing arrangements that contractually restrict or prohibit these types of upstream payments. There can also be adverse tax consequences associated with paying dividends. Our financial and operating flexibility could be affected by our long-term debt and other financial commitments As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $4.4 billion in outstanding debt. We also have various financial commitments, such as leases, firm transportation and processing, contracts and purchase commitments. Our ability to service our debt and other financial obligations depends in large part upon the level of cash flows generated by our subsidiaries' operations, our ability to monetize and/or divest non-core assets, availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility and our ability to access the capital markets. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital Our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by the major U.S. credit rating agencies and our historical ability to access those markets as needed. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales, and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix, and commodity pricing levels and others are also considered by the rating agencies. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access debt markets in the future, increase the cost of future debt, and potentially require us to post letters of credit for certain obligations. The loss of key executives or inability to attract and retain experienced technical personnel could reduce our competitiveness and harm prospects for future success The successful execution of our business strategies will depend, in part, on the continued service of certain key executive officers. We have employment agreements with some of our key personnel within the company. We do not carry significant amounts of key man insurance. In addition, our operations depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced technical professionals. Competition for such professionals is intense. The loss of key executive officers and/or our inability to retain or attract experienced technical personnel, could reduce our competitiveness and harm prospects for future success, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to or noncompliance with governmental regulation or exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations Drilling of oil and gas wells is subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our cost of compliance with these laws may be substantial. For example, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") has promulgated rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions applicable to certain offshore oil and natural gas production and onshore oil and natural 14 Table of Contents gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. In addition, U.S. federal law strictly regulates the prevention of oil spills and the release of hazardous substances, and imposes liability for removal costs and natural resource, real or personal property and certain economic damages arising from any spills. Some of these laws may impose strict and/or joint and several liability for clean-up costs and damages without regard to the conduct of the parties. As an owner and operator of onshore and offshore rigs and other equipment, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under federal law. In addition, our completion and production services operations routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of materials, some of which are classified as solid or hazardous wastes or hazardous substances. We are subject to various laws governing the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks and the use of underground injection wells. We employ personnel responsible for monitoring environmental compliance and arranging for remedial actions that may be required from time to time and also use consultants to advise on and assist with our environmental compliance efforts. Liabilities are recorded when the need for environmental assessments and/or remedial efforts become known or probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. Changes in environmental laws may also negatively impact the operations of oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, which in turn could have an adverse effect on us. For example, legislation has been proposed from time to time in the U.S. Congress that would reclassify some oil and natural gas production wastes as hazardous wastes under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act, which would make the reclassified wastes subject to more stringent and costly handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. In addition, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act provides the federal government with broad discretion in regulating the leasing of offshore oil and gas production sites. Legislators and regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions where we operate also focus increasingly on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases that may contribute to warming of the Earth's atmosphere, and other climatic changes. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation designed to reduce emission of greenhouse gases, and some states in which we operate have passed legislation or adopted initiatives, such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in the northeastern United States and the Western Regional Climate Action Initiative, which establish greenhouse gas inventories and/or cap-and-trade programs. Some international initiatives have also been adopted, which could result in increased costs of operations in covered jurisdictions. In addition, the EPA has published findings that emissions of greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment, paving the way for further regulations that could restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. The EPA has already issued rules requiring monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from oil and natural gas systems. Future or more stringent regulation could dramatically increase operating costs for oil and natural gas companies and could reduce the market for our services by making wells and/or oilfields uneconomical to operate. The expansion of the scope of laws protecting the environment has accelerated in recent years, particularly outside the United States, and we expect this trend to continue. The violation of environmental laws can lead to the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial obligations, and in some cases injunctive relief. Violations may also result in liabilities for personal injuries, property and natural resource damage and other costs and claims. We are not always successful in allocating all risks of these environmental liabilities to customers, and it is possible that customers who assume the risks will be financially unable to bear any resulting costs. 15 Table of Contents Changes in environmental laws related to hydraulic fracturing or other operations could result in increased costs of compliance and reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact the demand for fracturing and other services or our results of operations Operations in our Completion Services operating segment include hydraulic fracturing, a process sometimes used in the completion of oil and gas wells whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. Hydraulic fracturing activities are currently exempt under the Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA"), except for such activities that use diesel fuel, for which the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over and issued permitting guidance on in February 2014. In 2012, the EPA promulgated new rules establishing new air emission controls for oil and gas production and natural gas processing operations. More recently, in May 2014, the EPA issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the agency's intent to develop regulations under the Toxic Substances and Control Act related to the disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. The EPA is also conducting a study of the potential environmental impacts from hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources and developing rules on effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities, both which are expected for publication in early 2015. In addition, the federal Bureau of Land Management has proposed new requirements on hydraulic fracturing conducted on federal lands, including the disclosure of chemical additives used. In 2011, the U.S. Department of Energy released a report on hydraulic fracturing, recommending the implementation of a variety of measures to reduce the environmental impacts from shale-gas production. In addition, there has been public opposition to hydraulic fracturing. As a result, there have been legislative initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or under newly established legislation. From time to time, legislation has also been introduced in the U.S. Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require the disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition, various states and local governments have implemented, or are considering, increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, disclosure requirements and temporary or permanent bans. For example, Texas has adopted legislation that requires the public disclosure of information regarding the substances used in the hydraulic fracturing process, and, on December 17, 2014, the State of New York announced a ban on hydraulic fracturing due to public health and environmental concerns identified in its several years study. In addition, municipalities in Colorado and several other states have adopted or are in the process of adopting ordinances restricting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing within their jurisdictions. New or further changes in laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise banning or limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete oil and natural gas wells in shale formations, cause operational delays, increase costs of regulatory compliance or in exploration and production, which could adversely affect our business and the demand for fracturing services. Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us A significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. We are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have increased their enforcement 16 Table of Contents activities with respect to the FCPA. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. Significant exercises of stock options could adversely affect the market price of our common shares As of February 26, 2015, we had 800,000,000 authorized common shares, of which 329,376,998 shares were outstanding. In addition, 19,449,499 common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to stock option and employee benefit plans. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, whether directly by us or resulting from the exercise of options (and, where applicable, sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act), would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Provisions in our organizational documents may be insufficient to thwart a coercive hostile takeover attempt; conversely, they may deter a change of control transaction and decrease the likelihood of a shareholder receiving a change of control premium Companies generally seek to prevent coercive takeovers by parties unwilling to pay fair value for the enterprise they acquire. Historically, we have sought to avoid a coercive takeover by: • Classifying our Board of Directors ("Board") so that all the directors could not be replaced at a single meeting; • Authorizing the Board to issue a significant number of common shares and up to 25,000,000 preferred shares, as well as to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of the preferred shares, in each case without any vote or action by the holders of our common shares; • Adopting a shareholder rights plan that limits the number of shares of our common stock a potential acquiror can purchase without either securing the approval of our Board or having their voting interest severely diluted. The plan is scheduled to expire in July 2016 unless it is extended; • Limiting the ability of our shareholders to call or bring business before special meetings; • Prohibiting our shareholders from taking action by written consent in lieu of a meeting unless the consent is signed by all the shareholders then entitled to vote; • Requiring advance notice of shareholder proposals for business to be conducted at general meetings and for nomination of candidates for election to our Board; and • Reserving to our Board the ability to determine the number of directors comprising the full Board and to fill vacancies or newly created seats on the Board. At the request of shareholders, we declassified the Board, which makes it easier for another party to acquire control of the Company. The remaining provisions designed to avoid a coercive takeover may not be fully effective so that a party may still be able to acquire the Company without paying what the Board considers to be fair value, including a control premium. Conversely, such provisions could discourage a would-be acquiror and thus reduce the likelihood that shareholders would receive a premium for their shares in a takeover. We may have additional tax liabilities Income tax returns that we file will be subject to review and examination. We will not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, intercompany 17 Table of Contents pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries, if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure, or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase substantially and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Legal proceedings could affect our financial condition and results of operations We are subject to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time that include employment, tort, intellectual property and other claims, and purported class action and shareholder derivative actions. We are also subject to complaints and allegations from former, current or prospective employees from time to time, alleging violations of employment-related laws. Lawsuits or claims could result in decisions against us that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The profitability of our operations could be adversely affected by turmoil in the global financial and commodity markets Changes in general financial and political conditions may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in ways that we cannot predict. If global financial and commodity markets and economic conditions deteriorate in the future, there could be a material adverse impact on our liquidity and those of our customers and other worldwide business partners. For example, as a result of a dramatic decline in oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2014 which remained suppressed into 2015, our customers have reduced or curtailed their capital spending and drilling activities. As a result, we and our customers may experience difficulties forecasting future capital expenditures, which in turn could negatively impact the worldwide rig count and our future financial results. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected if our internal control over financial reporting is not effective Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the SEC, companies are required to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. As part of this process, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. We have identified a material weakness in our controls over the accounting for and disclosures related to a non-routine complex legal entity restructuring in the interim consolidated financial statements. A more complete description of this material weakness is included in Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures" in this Form 10-K, together with our remediation plan. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, which could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, lead to a loss of investor confidence and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position We undertake from time to time acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions, such as the proposed Merger with CJES, that we expect to further our business objectives. The anticipated benefits of such transactions may not be realized, or may be realized more slowly than expected, and may result in operational and financial consequences, including, but not limited to, the loss of key customers, suppliers or employees and significant transactional expenses, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Our business is subject to cybersecurity risks Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. Risks associated with these threats include, among other things, loss of intellectual property, disruption of our and customers' business operations and safety procedures, loss or damage to our worksite data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks are evolving and unpredictable. The occurrence of such an attack could go unnoticed for a period time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Merger The Merger is subject to customary approvals and conditions which may adversely impact the timing of the transaction and our ability to consummate the transaction In June 2014, we and certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries, including Nabors Red Lion Limited ("Red Lion"), agreed to the proposed Merger with CJES. Under the amended terms of the Merger and related transactions, we expect to receive total consideration comprised of approximately $688 million in cash and approximately 62.5 million common shares in the combined company upon the closing of the Merger. The Merger is subject to customary approvals and conditions, many of which are outside of our control, including, among others, the approval of the Merger by the holders of a majority of outstanding CJES common stock and the availability of the proceeds of CJES's debt financing to effect the cash payment to us at closing. Although we expect the Merger to be completed in March of 2015 following the special meeting of CJES stockholders on March 20, 2015, we cannot assure you that the Merger will be consummated within the anticipated time period or at all, including as the result of regulatory, market or other factors. Further, any delay in the consummation of the Merger could result in additional transaction costs or other effects associated with uncertainty about the Merger, which may adversely impact our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. In addition, failure to consummate the Merger could have an adverse effect on our business for a number of reasons, including that we will have incurred significant transaction costs without achieving the anticipated benefits from the transaction, including the expected cash payment from CJES, and will have lost the opportunity to pursue other strategic transactions. In addition, the market and price for our common stock could be adversely impacted from such delay or failure. Following completion of the Merger, we will not be able to exert complete control over New C&J Following the completion of the Merger, we will own 53% of the outstanding and issued common shares of the newly combined company. While we will have the ability to exert a significant degree of influence as a substantial shareholder, we will not be able to directly manage the daily operations of the newly combined company, including our Completion & Production Services business line, and will not be able to exert complete control over the decision-making of the board of directors of the newly combined company, including with respect to cash distributions to shareholders or the transfer of assets, under normal circumstances. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 