Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC include the following: Risks Related to Our Company Downgrades or the revocation of our financial strength ratings would affect our standing among brokers and customers and may cause our premiums and earnings to decrease significantly. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. Each rating is subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, the rating agency. The ratings are neither an evaluation directed to our investors nor a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our securities. For the financial strength rating of each of our principal operating subsidiaries, please see Item 1, “Business — Our Financial Strength Ratings”. If the rating of any of our subsidiaries is revised downward or revoked, our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry may suffer, and it may be more difficult for us to market our products. Specifically, any revision or revocation of this kind could result in a significant reduction in the number of insurance and reinsurance contracts we write and in a substantial loss of business as customers and brokers that place this business move to competitors with higher financial strength ratings. Additionally, it is common for our reinsurance contracts to contain terms that would allow the ceding companies to cancel the contract for the portion of our obligations if our insurance subsidiaries are downgraded below an A- by either A.M. Best or Standard & Poor’s. Whether a ceding company would exercise the cancellation right (and, in the case of Allied World Reinsurance Company, as described in the paragraph below, the right to require the posting of security) would depend, among other factors, on the reason for such downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Therefore, we cannot predict in advance the extent to which these rights would be exercised, if at all, or what effect any such cancellations or security postings would have on our financial condition or future operations, but such effect could be material. For example, if all ceding companies for which we have in force business as of December 31, 2009 were to exercise their cancellation rights or require the posting of security, the estimated impact could result in the return of premium, the commutation of loss reserves, the posting of additional collateral or a combination thereof, the notional value of which could be approximately $360 million. -20- Table of Contents Our U.S. reinsurance subsidiary, Allied World Reinsurance Company, does not typically post security for the reinsurance contracts it writes. In addition to the cancellation right discussed above, should the company’s A.M. Best rating or Standard & Poor’s rating be downgraded below A-, some ceding companies would have the right to require Allied World Reinsurance Company to post security for its portion of the obligations under such contracts. If this were to occur, Allied World Reinsurance Company may not have the liquidity to post security as stipulated in such reinsurance contracts. We also cannot assure you that A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s will not downgrade our insurance subsidiaries. Actual claims may exceed our reserves for losses and loss expenses. Our success depends on our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure and reinsure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to the policies we write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves are estimates of what we expect the ultimate resolution and administration of claims will cost. These estimates are based on actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined as experience develops and claims are reported and resolved. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. It is therefore possible that our reserves at any given time will prove to be inadequate. To the extent we determine that actual losses or loss expenses exceed our expectations and reserves reflected in our financial statements, we will be required to increase our reserves to reflect our changed expectations. This could cause a material increase in our liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, including operating losses and a reduction of capital. Our results for the year ended December 31, 2009 included $376.9 million and $128.9 million of favorable (i.e., a loss reserve decrease) and adverse development (i.e., a loss reserve increase), respectively, of reserves relating to losses incurred for prior loss years. In comparison, for the year ended December 31, 2008, our results included $330.5 million and $50.4 million of favorable and adverse development, respectively, of reserves relating to losses incurred for prior loss years. Our results for the year ended December 31, 2007 included $246.4 million and $123.3 million of favorable and adverse development, respectively, of reserves relating to losses incurred for prior loss years. We have estimated our net losses from catastrophes based on actuarial analyses of claims information received to date, industry modeling and discussions with individual insureds and reinsureds. Accordingly, actual losses may vary from those estimated and will be adjusted in the period in which further information becomes available. We may experience significant losses and volatility in our financial results from catastrophic events. As a multi-line casualty and property insurer and reinsurer, we may experience significant losses from claims arising out of catastrophic events, particularly from our direct property insurance operations and our property, workers compensation and personal accident reinsurance operations. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. The international geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure from natural events occurring in a number of areas throughout the world, examples of which include floods and windstorms in Europe, hurricanes and windstorms in Mexico, Florida, the Gulf Coast and the Atlantic Coast regions of the United States, typhoons and earthquakes in Japan and Taiwan and earthquakes in California and parts of the Midwestern United States known as the New Madrid zone. Our largest exposure to wind events is concentrated in the Southeast and Gulf Coast of the United States. Our largest exposure to quake events is concentrated in California. The loss experience of catastrophe insurers and reinsurers has historically been characterized as low frequency but high severity in nature. In recent years, the frequency of major catastrophes appears to have increased. Increases in the values and concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of losses to the industry in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. The loss limitation methods we employ, such as establishing maximum aggregate exposed limits on policies written in key coastal and other defined geographical zones, restrictive underwriting guidelines and purchasing reinsurance, may not be sufficient protection against losses from catastrophes. In the event we do not accurately estimate losses from catastrophes that have already occurred, there is a possibility that loss reserves for such catastrophes will be inadequate to cover the losses. Because U.S. GAAP does not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for catastrophes until they occur, claims from these events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, losses from catastrophic events could result in downward revisions to our financial strength ratings from the various rating agencies that cover us. -21- Table of Contents The risk models we use to quantify catastrophe exposures and risk accumulations may prove inadequate in predicting all outcomes from potential catastrophe events. We use widely accepted and industry-recognized catastrophe risk modeling programs to help us quantify our aggregate exposure to any one event. As with any model of physical systems, particularly those with low frequencies of occurrence and potentially high severity of outcomes, the accuracy of the model’s predictions is largely dependant on the accuracy and quality of the data provided in the underwriting process. These models do not anticipate all potential perils or events that could result in a catastrophic loss to us. Furthermore, it is often difficult for models to anticipate and incorporate events that have not been experienced during or as a result of prior catastrophes. Accordingly, it is possible for us to be subject to events or contingencies that have not been anticipated by our catastrophe risk models and which could have a material adverse effect on our reserves and results of operations. We could face losses from terrorism, political unrest and pandemic diseases. We have exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism and political instability. Although we generally exclude acts of terrorism from our property insurance policies and property reinsurance treaties where practicable, we provide coverage in circumstances where we believe we are adequately compensated for assuming those risks. A pandemic disease could also cause us to suffer significantly increased insurance losses on a variety of coverages we offer. Our reinsurance protections may only partially offset these losses. Moreover, even in cases where we seek to exclude coverage, we may not be able to completely eliminate our exposure to these events. It is impossible to predict the timing or severity of these events with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. We could also suffer losses from a disruption of our business operations and our investments may suffer a decrease in value due to the occurrence of any of these events. To the extent we suffer losses from these risks, such losses could be significant. Our business and our financial results may be adversely affected by unexpected levels of loss due to climate change. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the underwriting of property insurance and reinsurance around the world. Therefore, large scale climate change (often referred to as “global warming”) as well as changing ocean temperatures could increase the frequency and severity of our loss costs related to property damage and/or business interruption due to hurricanes, windstorms, flooding, blizzards, tornadoes or other severe weather events particularly with respect to properties located in coastal areas. Additionally, if changes in climactic patterns and ocean temperature conditions continue, it is likely that such changes will further impair the ability to predict the frequency and severity of future weather-related disasters in many parts of the world. Over the longer term, such decreased predictability will create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. In addition to unexpected increases in covered losses and decreased predictability, global climate change may also give rise to new environmental liability claims against policyholders that compete in the energy, automobile manufacturing and other industries that we serve. These would be an increase in claims against policyholders of directors and officers liability of related management liability policies alleging a failure to supervise, manage or properly disclose climate change exposures. We may also incur greater-than-expected expense levels due to the costs involved in responding to regulators, rating agencies and other interested constituencies with respect to climate change and other environmental disclosures. The perceived effects of climate change on debt obligations can impact our investment mix in any one issuer, industry or region. The largest per-issuer exposure, outside of government and government-related issuers, represented 1.2% of our investment portfolio and the largest ten exposures represented less than 10% of the portfolio. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We seek to limit our loss exposure by adhering to maximum limitations on policies written in defined geographical zones (which limits our exposure to losses in any one geographic area), limiting program size for each client (which limits our exposure to losses with respect to any one client), adjusting retention levels and establishing per risk and per occurrence limitations for each event and establishing prudent underwriting guidelines for each insurance program written (all of which limit our liability on any one policy). Most of our direct liability insurance policies include maximum aggregate limitations. We cannot assure you that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective. In particular, geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the areas of the zones and whether a policy falls within particular zone limits. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. As a result, various provisions of our policies that are designed to limit our risks, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage (which limit the range and amount of liability to which we are exposed on a policy) or choice of forum (which provides us with a predictable set of laws to govern our policies and the ability to lower costs by retaining legal counsel in fewer jurisdictions), may not be enforceable in the manner we intend and some or all of our other loss limitation methods may prove to be ineffective. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims and expenses that substantially exceed our expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A prolonged recession and other adverse consequences as a result of the recent turmoil in the U.S. and international financial markets could harm our business, liquidity and financial condition, and our share price. The U.S. and international financial markets have been severely disrupted. These conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged recession, may potentially affect various aspects of our business, including the demand for and claims made under our -22- Table of Contents products, our counterparty credit risk and the ability of our customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance. Continued volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may also adversely affect our share price. We may be impacted from claims relating to the recent financial market turmoil, including subprime and other credit and insurance exposures beyond our current estimates. We write corporate directors and officers, errors and omissions and other insurance coverages for financial institutions and financial services companies. We also write liability coverages for fiduciaries of pension funds. In addition, we also reinsure other insurance companies that write these types of coverages. The financial institutions and financial services segment has been particularly impacted by the recent financial market turmoil. As a result, this industry segment has been the subject of heightened scrutiny and in some cases investigations by regulators with respect to the industry’s actions as they relate to subprime mortgages, collateralized debt obligations, structured investment vehicles, swap and derivative transactions and executive compensation. During this time, a number of U.S. and international financial institutions, insurance companies and other companies have failed, been acquired under distressed circumstances, become reliant upon the central governments of their jurisdictions for financial assistance to remain solvent and/or suffered significant declines in their stock price. Additionally, there have been allegations of fraud, most notably being the claims alleged against the founder and chief executive officer of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, R. Allen Stanford and Galleon Group LLC. These events may give rise to increased litigation, including class action suits, which may involve our insureds. To the extent we have claims relating to these events, it could cause substantial volatility in our financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For our reinsurance business, we depend on the policies, procedures and expertise of ceding companies; these companies may fail to accurately assess the risks they underwrite which may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. Because we participate in reinsurance markets, the success of our reinsurance underwriting efforts depends in part on the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions (when an insurer transfers some or all of its risk to a reinsurer, the insurer is sometimes referred to as a “ceding company”). Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond the ceding companies’ control and for which historical experience and statistical analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. We face the risk that the ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks they underwrite, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume as reinsurance; if this occurs, the premiums that are ceded to us may not adequately compensate us and we could face significant losses on these reinsurance contracts. The availability and cost of security arrangements for reinsurance transactions may materially impact our ability to provide reinsurance from Bermuda to insurers domiciled in the United States. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda insurance and reinsurance company, is not admitted as an insurer, nor is it accredited as a reinsurer, in any jurisdiction in the United States. As a result, it is required to post collateral security with respect to any reinsurance liabilities it assumes from ceding insurers domiciled in the United States in order for U.S. ceding companies to obtain credit on their U.S. statutory financial statements with respect to the insurance liabilities ceded to them. Under applicable statutory provisions, the security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by trustees or funds-withheld arrangements where assets are held by the ceding company. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd uses trust accounts and has access to up to $1.7 billion in letters of credit under two letter of credit facilities. The letter of credit facilities impose restrictive covenants, including restrictions on asset sales, limitations on the incurrence of certain liens and required collateral and financial strength levels. Violations of these or other covenants could result in the suspension of access to letters of credit or such letters of credit becoming due and payable. Our access to our existing letter of credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to these facilities to meet their commitments. Our $900 million letter of credit facility with Citibank Europe plc is on an uncommitted basis, which means Citibank Europe has agreed to offer us up to $900 million in letters of credit, but they are not contractually obligated for that full amount. The lenders under our letter of credit facilities may not be able to meet their commitments if they become insolvent, file for bankruptcy protection or if they otherwise experience shortages of capital and liquidity. If these letter of credit facilities are not sufficient or drawable or if Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is unable to renew either or both of these facilities or to arrange for trust accounts or other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, its ability to provide reinsurance to U.S.-domiciled insurers may be severely limited and adversely affected. In addition, security arrangements with ceding insurers may subject our assets to security interests or may require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties. Although the investment income derived from our assets while held in trust typically accrues to our benefit, the investment of these assets is governed by the terms of the letter of credit facilities and the -23- Table of Contents investment regulations of the state of domicile of the ceding insurer, which generally regulate the amount and quality of investments permitted and which may be more restrictive than the investment regulations applicable to us under Bermuda law. These restrictions may result in lower investment yields on these assets, which could adversely affect our profitability. We depend on a small number of brokers for a large portion of our revenues. The loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide through insurance and reinsurance brokers. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our top three brokers represented approximately 55.3% of our total gross premiums written. Marsh, Aon (including Benfield Group Ltd.) and Willis were responsible for the distribution of approximately 25.8%, 20.7% and 8.8%, respectively, of our total gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2009. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business produced by any one of those brokers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the customers that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, it is likely that, in most cases, we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations. Likewise, when a customer pays premiums for policies written by us to a broker for further payment to us, these premiums are generally considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we actually receive the premiums. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the brokers we use with respect to our insurance and reinsurance business. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance for our own account on commercially acceptable terms or to collect under any reinsurance we have purchased. We acquire reinsurance purchased for our own account to mitigate the effects of large or multiple losses on our financial condition. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance they consider adequate for their business needs. For example, following the events of September 11, 2001, terms and conditions in the reinsurance markets generally became less attractive to buyers of such coverage. Similar conditions may occur at any time in the future, and we may not be able to purchase reinsurance in the areas and for the amounts required or desired. Even if reinsurance is generally available, we may not be able to negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or to obtain coverage from entities with satisfactory financial resources. In addition, the recent financial market turmoil may significantly adversely affect the ability of our reinsurers and retrocessionaires to meet their obligations to us. A reinsurer’s insolvency, or inability or refusal to make payments under a reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance agreement with us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we remain liable to the insured under the corresponding coverages written by us. Our investment performance may adversely affect our financial performance and ability to conduct business. We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. Ongoing conditions in the U.S. and international financial markets have and could continue to adversely affect our investment portfolio. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our investment portfolio is overseen by our Chief Investment Officer and managed by professional investment management firms in accordance with the Investment Policy Statement approved by the Investment Committee of the Board of Directors. Our investment performance is subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to general economic conditions, market volatility and interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk, and credit and default risk. Additionally, with respect to some of our investments, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk. According to our current Investment Policy Statement, we may invest up to 10% of our investment portfolio in public and private equities, preferred equities, non-investment grade investments and hedge funds. As a result, we may be subject to restrictions on redemption, which may limit our ability to withdraw -24- Table of Contents funds or realize on such investments for some period of time after our initial investment. The values of, and returns on, such investments may also be more volatile. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under insurance or reinsurance policies written by us, our liquidity needs could be substantial and may arise at any time. To the extent we are unsuccessful in managing our investment portfolio within the context of our expected liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, or we may have difficulty in liquidating some of our alternative investments due to restrictions on sales, transfers and redemptions noted above. This could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our investment portfolio. If our liquidity needs or general liability profile unexpectedly change, we may not be successful in continuing to structure our investment portfolio in its current manner. In addition, investment losses could significantly decrease our book value, thereby affecting our ability to conduct business. While we maintain an investment portfolio with instruments rated highly by the recognized rating agencies, there are no assurances that these high ratings will be maintained. Over the past couple of years companies with highly-rated debt have filed for bankruptcy. The assignment of a high credit rating does not preclude the potential for the risk of default on any investment instrument. Any increase in interest rates and/or credit spread levels could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains interest-rate-sensitive instruments that may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on fixed income investments. Generally, investment income will be reduced during sustained periods of lower interest rates as higher-yielding fixed income securities are called, mature or are sold and the proceeds reinvested at lower rates. During periods of rising interest rates, prices of fixed income securities tend to fall and realized gains upon their sale are reduced. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to effectively mitigate interest rate sensitivity. In particular, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, changes in the credit spread (the difference in the percentage yield) between U.S. Treasury securities and non-U.S. Treasury securities may negatively impact our investment portfolio as we may not be able to effectively mitigate credit spread sensitivity. In particular, a significant increase in credit spreads could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our investment portfolio includes U.S. government agency and non-agency commercial and residential mortgage-backed securities. As of December 31, 2009, mortgage-backed securities constituted approximately 22.8% of the fair value of our total investments and cash and cash equivalents, of which 11.6% of the fair value was invested in U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are generally prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. In periods of rising interest rates, mortgage-backed securities may have declining levels of prepayments, extending their maturity and duration, thereby negatively impacting the security’s price. Delinquencies, defaults and losses with respect to non-agency commercial and residential mortgage loans have increased and may continue to increase. In addition, residential property values in many states have declined, after extended periods during which those values appreciated. A continued decline or an extended flattening in those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, especially with respect to second homes and investor properties, and with respect to any residential mortgage loans where the aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate loans) are close to or greater than the related property values. Additionally as of December 31, 2009, commercial mortgage-backed securities constituted 5.6% of the fair value of our total investments and cash and cash equivalents. While delinquencies, defaults and losses have been slower to materialize in the commercial sector than in the residential sector, we believe that the next 12 to 24 months may see increasing problems for the commercial real estate market, and therefore the commercial mortgage-backed securities sector. We expect this to be most acute in the more recent commercial mortgage-backed securities offerings, particularly those occurring in 2007 and 2008. As of December 31, 2009, we had no direct exposure to these recent commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions (2007 and 2008 vintage). -25- Table of Contents The valuation of our investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. During periods of market disruptions, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable. In addition, there may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the recent financial environment. In such cases, the valuation of a greater number of securities in our investment portfolio may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods that are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially affect the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The determination of the impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our financial position or results of operations. The determination of the impairments taken on our investments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluations and assessments of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations quarterly and reflects impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The U.S. dollar is our reporting currency and the functional currency of all of our operating subsidiaries. We enter into insurance and reinsurance contracts where the premiums receivable and losses payable are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we maintain a portion of our investments and liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Assets in non-U.S. currencies are generally converted into U.S. dollars at the time of receipt. When we incur a liability in a non-U.S. currency, we carry such liability on our books in the original currency. These liabilities are converted from the non-U.S. currency to U.S. dollars at the time of payment. We may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as we ultimately receive premiums and settle claims required to be paid in foreign currencies. We have currency hedges in place that seek to alleviate our potential exposure to volatility in foreign exchange rates and intend to consider the use of additional hedges when we are advised of known or probable significant losses that will be paid in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we do not seek to hedge our foreign currency risk or our hedges prove ineffective, the impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by inflation. Our operations, like those of other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers, are susceptible to the effects of inflation because premiums are established before the ultimate amounts of loss and loss adjustment expense are known. Although we consider the potential effects of inflation when setting premium rates, our premiums, for competitive reasons, may not fully offset the effects of inflation and essentially result in our under pricing the risks we insure and reinsure. Our reserve for losses and loss adjustment expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims-handling expenses, such as the value of replacing property and associated labor costs for the property business we write, the value of medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes theses costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional capital in the future that may not be available to us on commercially favorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that the funds generated by insurance premiums received and sale -26- Table of Contents proceeds and income from our investment portfolio are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and cover losses and loss expenses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or reduce our assets. The recent financial market crisis has created unprecedented uncertainty in the equity and credit markets and has affected our ability, and the ability of others within our industry, to raise additional capital in the public or private markets. Any future financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financing, dilution to our shareholders could result, and the securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common shares. Our business could be adversely affected if we lose any member of our management team or are unable to attract and retain our personnel. Our success depends in substantial part on our ability to attract and retain our employees who generate and service our business. We rely substantially on the services of our executive management team. If we lose the services of any member of our executive management team, our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain other talented personnel, the further implementation of our business strategy could be impeded. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The location of our global headquarters in Bermuda may also impede our ability to attract and retain talented employees. We currently have written employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Chief Actuary and most of the other members of our executive management team. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any of our employees. Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience losses from, among other things, fraud, errors, the failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization or the failure to comply with regulatory or legal requirements. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Losses related to employee error or misconduct could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business. If a program administrator were to exceed its underwriting authority or otherwise breach obligations owed to us, we could be adversely affected. We write a portion of our U.S. insurance business through relationships with program administrators, under contracts pursuant to which we authorize such program administrators to underwrite and bind business on our behalf, within guidelines we prescribe. In this structure, we rely on controls incorporated in the provisions of the program administration agreement, as well as on the administrator’s internal controls, to limit the risks insured to those which are within the prescribed parameters. Although we monitor program administrators on an ongoing basis, our monitoring efforts may not be adequate or our program administrators could exceed their underwriting authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. We are liable to policyholders under the terms of policies underwritten by program administrators, and to the extent such administrators exceed their authorities or otherwise breach their obligations to us, our financial condition or results of operations could be material adversely affected. If we experience difficulties with our information technology and telecommunications systems and/or data security, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. We rely heavily on the successful, uninterrupted functioning of our information technology (“IT”) and telecommunications systems. Our business and continued expansion is highly dependent upon our ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as processing policies, paying claims, performing actuarial and other modeling functions. A failure of our IT and telecommunication systems or the termination of third-party software licenses we rely on in order to maintain such systems could materially impact our ability to write and process business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary actuarial, legal, financial and other business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our IT and data systems to security breaches. If we do not maintain adequate IT and telecommunications systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including inadequate information on which to base critical decisions, the loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, litigation exposures and increased administrative expenses. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. -27- Table of Contents The integration of acquired companies, the growth of our operations through new lines of insurance or reinsurance business, the expansion into new geographic regions and/or the entering into joint ventures or partnerships may expose us to operational risks. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including operational, strategic and financial risks such as potential liabilities associated with the acquired business. We may experience difficulties in integrating an acquired company, which could adversely affect the acquired company’s performance or prevent us from realizing anticipated synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. Expanding our lines of business, expanding our geographic reach and entering into joint ventures or partnerships also involve operational, strategic and financial risks, including retaining qualified management and implementing satisfactory budgetary, financial and operational controls. Our failure to manage successfully these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or business or we may not realize any of the intended benefits. A complaint filed against our Bermuda insurance subsidiary could, if adversely determined or resolved, subject us to a material loss. On April 4, 2006, a complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta Division) by a group of several corporations and certain of their related entities in an action entitled New Cingular Wireless Headquarters, LLC et al, as plaintiffs, against certain defendants, including Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., Marsh Inc. and Aon Corporation, in their capacities as insurance brokers, and 78 insurers, including our insurance subsidiary in Bermuda, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd. The action generally relates to broker defendants’ placement of insurance contracts for plaintiffs with the 78 insurer defendants. Plaintiffs maintain that the defendants used a variety of illegal schemes and practices designed to, among other things, allocate customers, rig bids for insurance products and raise the prices of insurance products paid by the plaintiffs. In addition, plaintiffs allege that the broker defendants steered policyholders’ business to preferred insurer defendants. Plaintiffs claim that as a result of these practices, policyholders either paid more for insurance products or received less beneficial terms than the competitive market would have produced. The eight counts in the complaint allege, among other things, (i) unreasonable restraints of trade and conspiracy in violation of the Sherman Act, (ii) violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO, (iii) that broker defendants breached their fiduciary duties to plaintiffs, (iv) that insurer defendants participated in and induced this alleged breach of fiduciary duty, (v) unjust enrichment, (vi) common law fraud by broker defendants and (vii) statutory and consumer fraud under the laws of certain U.S. states. Plaintiffs seek equitable and legal remedies, including injunctive relief, unquantified consequential and punitive damages, and treble damages under the Sherman Act and RICO. On October 16, 2006, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered that the litigation be transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey for inclusion in the coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings occurring in that court. Neither Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd nor any of the other defendants have responded to the complaint. Written discovery has begun but has not been completed. As a result of the court granting motions to dismiss in the related putative class action proceeding, prosecution of this case is currently stayed and the court is deciding whether to extend the current stay during the pendency of an appeal filed by the class action plaintiffs with the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. At this point, it is not possible to predict its outcome, the company does not, however, currently believe that the outcome will have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations. Conflicts of interests may arise because affiliates of certain of our principal shareholders have continuing agreements and business relationships with us, and our founding shareholders compete with us in several of our business lines. Affiliates of certain of our founding shareholders engage in transactions with our company. Affiliates of the Goldman Sachs Funds (which holds 8,159,793 non-voting common shares and warrants to purchase 1,500,000 non-voting common shares as of December 31, 2009) serve as investment managers for a majority of our investment portfolio. AIG and Chubb (each of which holds a warrant to purchase two million of our common shares) are also customers of our company. Furthermore, affiliates of AIG, Chubb and the Goldman Sachs Funds from time to time compete with us, including by assisting or investing in the formation of other entities engaged in the insurance and reinsurance business. Conflicts of interest could also arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to AIG, Chubb, the Goldman Sachs Funds or other existing shareholders or any of their affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. AIG, Chubb and the Goldman Sachs Funds either directly or through affiliates, also maintain business relationships with other companies that directly compete with us. In general, these affiliates could pursue business interests or exercise their voting power as shareholders in ways that are detrimental to us, but beneficial to themselves or to other companies in which they invest or with whom they have a material relationship. -28- Table of Contents Government authorities are continuing to investigate the insurance industry, which may adversely affect our business. The attorneys general for multiple states and other insurance regulatory authorities have been investigating a number of issues and practices within the insurance industry, and in particular insurance brokerage practices. These investigations of the insurance industry in general, whether involving the company specifically or not, together with any legal or regulatory proceedings, related settlements and industry reform or other changes arising therefrom, may materially adversely affect our business and future prospects. Risks Related to the Insurance and Reinsurance Business The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions. Historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of underwriting capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. The occurrence, or non-occurrence, of catastrophic events, the frequency and severity of which are unpredictable, affects both industry results and consequently prevailing market prices for certain of our products. As a result of these factors, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense competition on price and policy terms due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permit favorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions. Increases in the supply of insurance and reinsurance may have adverse consequences for us, including fewer policies and contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions. Increased competition in the insurance and reinsurance markets in which we operate could adversely impact our operating margins. The insurance and reinsurance industry are highly competitive. We compete with major U.S. and international insurers and reinsurers. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing and management resources. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, risk-linked securities and derivative and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, including entities other than insurance and reinsurance companies. The availability of these non-traditional products could reduce the demand for traditional insurance and reinsurance. A number of new, proposed or potential industry or legislative developments could further increase competition in our industry. New competition from these developments could result in fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth, financial condition or results of operations. The effects of emerging claims and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance and reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: • larger defense costs, settlements and jury awards in cases involving professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors and officers liability insurance; and • a trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in class action litigation related to claims handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of our business. -29- Table of Contents Risks Related to Laws and Regulations Applicable to Us Compliance by our insurance subsidiaries with the legal and regulatory requirements to which they are subject is expensive. Any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance subsidiaries are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies, both in the jurisdictions in which they are organized and where they sell their insurance and reinsurance products. The insurance and regulatory environment, in particular for offshore insurance and reinsurance companies, has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United States, various states within the United States and the United Kingdom. In the past, there have been Congressional and other initiatives in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry. It is not possible to predict the future impact of changes in laws and regulations on our operations. The cost of complying with any new legal requirements affecting our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our subsidiaries may not always be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations. They also may not be able to fully comply with, or to obtain appropriate exemptions from, the laws and regulations applicable to them. Any failure to comply with applicable law or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in restrictions on either the ability of the company in question, as well as potentially its affiliates, to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate or on brokers on which we rely to produce business for us. In addition, any such failure to comply with applicable laws or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Bermuda insurance subsidiary, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, is registered as a Class 4 Bermuda insurance and reinsurance company and is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. The applicable Bermudian statutes and regulations generally are designed to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies rather than shareholders or noteholders. Among other things, those statutes and regulations: • require Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd to maintain minimum levels of capital and surplus, • impose liquidity requirements which restrict the amount and type of investments it may hold, • prescribe solvency standards that it must meet, and • restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital and provide for the performance of periodic examinations of Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd and its financial condition. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd to write new business. Although it conducts its operations from Bermuda, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is not authorized to directly underwrite local risks in Bermuda. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd also operates branch offices in Hong Kong and Singapore, which offices are regulated by the Office of the Insurance Commissioner in Hong Kong and the Monetary Authority of Singapore, respectively. Our U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, Allied World Assurance Company (U.S.) Inc. and Darwin National Assurance Company, each a Delaware domiciled subsidiary, Allied World National Assurance Company and Allied World Reinsurance Company, each a New Hampshire domiciled subsidiary, and Darwin Select Insurance Company and Vantapro Specialty Insurance Company, each an Arkansas domiciled subsidiary, are subject to the statutes and regulations of their relevant state of domicile as well as any other state in the United States where they conduct business. In the states where the companies are admitted, the companies must comply with all insurance laws and regulations, including insurance rate and form requirements. Insurance laws and regulations may vary significantly from state to state. In those states where the companies act as surplus lines carriers, the states’ regulation focuses mainly on the company’s solvency. Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited, an Irish domiciled insurer, operates within the European Union non-life insurance legal and regulatory framework as established under the Third Non-Life Directive of the European Union, and operates a branch in London, England. Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited is required to operate in accordance with the provisions of the Irish Insurance Acts 1909-2000, the Central Bank and Financial Services Authority of Ireland Acts 2003 and 2004, all statutory instruments made thereunder, all -30- Table of Contents statutory instruments relating to insurance made under the European Communities Acts 1972 to 2009 and the requirements of the Irish Financial Regulator. Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited, an Irish domiciled reinsurer, is regulated by the Irish Financial Regulator pursuant to the provisions of the European Communities (Reinsurance) Regulations 2006 (which transposed the E.U. Reinsurance Directive into Irish law) and operates branches in London, England and Zug, Switzerland. Pursuant to the provisions of these regulations, reinsurance undertakings may, subject to the satisfaction of certain formalities, carry on reinsurance business in other European Union member states either directly from the home member state (on a freedom to provide services basis) or through local branches (by way of permanent establishment). Our Bermuda entities could become subject to regulation in the United States. None of our Bermuda entities are admitted as an insurer, nor is any of them accredited as a reinsurer, in any jurisdiction in the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2009, more than 82% of the gross premiums written by Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, however, are derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts entered into with entities domiciled in the United States. The insurance laws of each state in the United States regulate the sale of insurance and reinsurance within the state’s jurisdiction by foreign insurers. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd conducts its business through its offices in Bermuda and does not maintain an office, and its personnel do not solicit insurance business, resolve claims or conduct other insurance business, in the United States. While Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd does not believe it is in violation of insurance laws of any jurisdiction in the United States, we cannot be certain that inquiries or challenges to our insurance and reinsurance activities will not be raised in the future. It is possible that, if Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd were to become subject to any laws of this type at any time in the future, we would not be in compliance with the requirements of those laws. Our holding company structure and regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd is a holding company, and as such has no substantial operations of its own. It does not have any significant assets other than its ownership of the shares of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from subsidiaries are expected to be the sole source of funds for Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd to meet any ongoing cash requirements, including any debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay any dividends to shareholders. Bermuda law, including Bermuda insurance regulations and the Companies Act, restricts the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by our Bermuda entities, unless specified requirements are met. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is prohibited from paying dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown in its previous financial year’s statutory balance sheet) without prior BMA approval. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is also prohibited from declaring or paying dividends without the approval of the BMA if Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd failed to meet its minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of the previous financial year. Furthermore, in order to reduce its total statutory capital by 15% or more, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd would require the prior approval of the BMA. In addition, Bermuda corporate law prohibits a company from declaring or paying a dividend if there are reasonable grounds for believing that (i) the company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (ii) the realizable value of the company’s assets would thereby be less than the aggregate of its liabilities, its issued share capital and its share premium accounts. In addition, our U.S. and Irish insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay any dividends. In general, a U.S. insurance company subsidiary may not pay an “extraordinary” dividend or distribution until 30 days after the applicable insurance regulator has received notice of the intended payment and has not objected to, or has approved, the payment within the 30-day period. In general, an “extraordinary” dividend or distribution is defined by these laws and regulations as a dividend or distribution that, together with other dividends and distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater (or, in some jurisdictions, the lesser) of: (a) 10% of the insurer’s statutory surplus as of the immediately prior year end; or (b) or the statutory net income during the prior calendar year. The laws and regulations of some of these U.S. jurisdictions also prohibit an insurer from declaring or paying a dividend except out of its earned surplus. For example, payments of dividends by U.S. insurance companies are subject to restrictions on statutory surplus pursuant to state law. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employee or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to such subsidiaries’ policyholders. Without the consent of the Irish Financial Regulator, Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited are not permitted to reduce the level of its capital, may not make any dividend payments, -31- Table of Contents may not make inter-company loans and must maintain a minimum solvency margin. These rules and regulations may have the effect of restricting the ability of these companies to declare and pay dividends. In addition, we have insurance subsidiaries that are the parent company for other insurance subsidiaries, and dividends and other distributions are subject to multiple layers of the regulations discussed above as funds are pushed up to our ultimate parent company. The inability of any of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd to meet its cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to make payments on any indebtedness, our ability to transfer capital from one subsidiary to another and our ability to declare and pay dividends to our shareholders. The U.S. Congress is considering healthcare reform legislation which could have a material impact on our business. Our U.S. insurance segment and our international insurance segment derive substantial revenues from healthcare liability underwriting in the United States, that is, providing insurance to individuals and institutions that participate in the U.S. healthcare delivery infrastructure. Recent legislative proposals adopted by the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives could, if either were to become law, effect far-reaching changes in the healthcare delivery system and/or the healthcare cost reimbursement structure in the United States and could negatively impact our healthcare liability business. Additionally, although not a feature of the existing bills, future healthcare proposals could include tort reform provisions under which plaintiffs would be restricted in their ability to bring suit against healthcare providers, which could negatively impact the demand for our healthcare liability products. While the outcome and impact of this legislative process is extremely difficult to predict, any of such legislative initiatives, if adopted, could materially change how healthcare providers insure their malpractice liability risks and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in future years. Other legislative, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework is subject to heavy scrutiny by U.S. federal and individual state governments as well as an increasing number of international authorities. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders. Governmental authorities in the United States and worldwide seem increasingly interested in the potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we do not believe these inquiries have identified meaningful, new risks posed by the insurance and reinsurance industry, and while we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, there may be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. For example, the U.S. federal government has increased its scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in recent years, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia and state insurance regulators, regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. For example, we could be adversely affected by proposals to: • provide insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target; • require our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations; • expand the scope of coverage under existing policies; • increasingly mandate the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; • establish a new federal insurance regulator or financial industry systemic risk regulator; • revise laws and regulations under which we operate, including a potential change to U.S. tax laws to disallow or limit the current tax deduction for reinsurance premiums paid by our U.S. subsidiaries to our Bermuda insurance subsidiary for reinsurance protections it provides to our U.S. subsidiaries; or • disproportionately benefit the companies of one country over those of another. We are incorporated in Bermuda and are therefore subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability or increased regulatory supervision or change in regulation. The -32- Table of Contents Bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including in the United States and in various states within the United States. We are unable to predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject. Moreover, our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that our principal insurance subsidiary is domiciled in, and operates exclusively from, Bermuda. For example, Bermuda, a small jurisdiction, may be disadvantaged in participating in global or cross-border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the United States or the leading European Union countries. In addition, Bermuda, which is currently an overseas territory of the United Kingdom, may consider changes to its relationship with the United Kingdom in the future. These changes could adversely affect Bermuda’s position with respect to its regulatory initiatives, which could adversely impact us commercially. Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of a permanent resident’s certificate and holders of a working resident’s certificate) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government if it is shown that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian, holder of a permanent resident’s certificate or holder of a working resident’s certificate) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In 2001, the Bermuda government announced a new immigration policy limiting the total duration of work permits, including renewals, to six to nine years, with specified exemptions for key employees. In March 2004, the Bermuda government announced an amendment to this policy which expanded the categories of occupations recognized by the government as “key” and with respect to which businesses can apply to be exempt from the six-to-nine-year limitations. The categories include senior executives, managers with global responsibility, senior financial posts, certain legal professionals and senior insurance professionals, experienced/specialized brokers, actuaries, specialist investment traders/analysts and senior information technology engineers and managers. All of our Bermuda-based professional employees who require work permits have been granted permits by the Bermuda government. It is possible that the Bermuda government could deny work permits for our employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares Future sales of our common shares may adversely affect the market price. As of February 22, 2010, we had 49,777,779 common shares outstanding. Up to an additional 3,482,676 common shares may be issuable upon the vesting and exercise of outstanding stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance-based equity awards. In addition, our founding shareholders hold warrants exercisable for 5,500,000 common shares, some of which are currently exercisable, and their transferees have the right to require us to register their common shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), for sale to the public. Our founding shareholders may also request that we remove the restrictive legend on their common shares to enable them to sell such shares under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Following any registration of this type or restrictive legend removal, the common shares to which the registration or removal relates will be freely transferable. We have also filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register common shares issued or reserved for issuance under the Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd Second Amended and Restated 2001 Employee Stock Option Plan, the Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd Second Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, the Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd Second Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”) and the Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd 2008 Employee Share Purchase Plan. Subject to the exercise of issued and outstanding stock options, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale to the public. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of common shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that sales of this type could occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common shares at a time and price that you deem appropriate. Our Bye-laws contain restrictions on ownership, voting and transfers of our common shares. Under our Third Amended and Restated Bye-laws (the “Bye-laws”), our directors (or their designees) in their sole and absolute discretion, may decline to register any transfer of common shares that would result in a U.S. person owning our common shares and shares of any other class or classes, in excess of certain prescribed limitations. These limitations take into account attribution and constructive ownership rules under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and beneficial ownership rules under the Exchange Act. Similar restrictions apply to our ability to issue or repurchase shares. Our directors (or their designees), in their sole and absolute discretion, may also decline to register the transfer of any common shares if they have reason to believe that -33- Table of Contents (1) the transfer could expose us or any of our subsidiaries, any shareholder or any person insured or reinsured by us, to, or materially increase the risk of, material adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction; or (2) the transfer is required to be registered under the Securities Act or under the securities laws of any state of the United States or any other jurisdiction, and such registration has not occurred. These restrictions apply to a transfer of common shares even if the transfer has been executed on the New York Stock Exchange. Any person wishing to transfer common shares will be deemed to own the shares for dividend, voting and reporting purposes until the transfer has been registered on our register of members. We are authorized to request information from any holder or prospective acquiror of common shares as necessary to give effect to the transfer, issuance and repurchase restrictions described above, and may decline to effect that kind of transaction if complete and accurate information is not received as requested. Our Bye-laws also contain provisions relating to voting powers that may cause the voting power of certain shareholders to differ significantly from their ownership of common shares. Our Bye-laws specify the voting rights of any owner of shares to prevent any person from owning, beneficially, constructively or by attribution, shares carrying 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to all of our outstanding shares. Because of the attribution and constructive ownership provisions of the Code, and the rules of the SEC regarding determination of beneficial ownership, this requirement may have the effect of reducing the voting rights of a shareholder even if that shareholder does not directly or indirectly hold 10% or more of the total combined voting power of our company. Further, our directors (or their designees) have the authority to request from any shareholder specified information for the purpose of determining whether that shareholder’s voting rights are to be reduced. If a shareholder fails to respond to this request or submits incomplete or inaccurate information, the directors (or their designees) have the discretion to disregard all votes attached to that shareholder’s shares. No person, including any of our current shareholders, may exercise 10% or more of our total voting rights. To our knowledge, as of this date, none of our current shareholders is anticipated to own 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to all of our outstanding shares after giving effect to the voting cutback. Anti-takeover provisions in our Bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our Bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. For example, the following provisions in our Bye-laws could have such an effect: • the election of our directors is staggered, meaning that members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year, thus limiting a shareholder’s ability to replace directors; • our shareholders have a limited ability to remove directors; • the total voting power of any shareholder beneficially owning 10% or more of the total voting power of our voting shares will be reduced to less than 10% of the total voting power. Conversely, shareholders owning less than 10% of the total voting power may gain increased voting power as a result of these cutbacks; • our directors may decline to register a transfer of shares if as a result of such transfer any U.S. person owns 10% or more of our shares by vote or value (other than some of our principal shareholders, whose share ownership may not exceed the percent of our common shares owned immediately after our initial public offering of common shares in July 2006); • if our directors determine that share ownership of any person may result in a violation of our ownership limitations, our Board of Directors has the power to force that shareholder to sell its shares; and • our Board of Directors has the power to issue preferred shares without any shareholder approval, which effectively allows the Board to dilute the holdings of any shareholder and could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the share ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors. -34- Table of Contents As a shareholder of our company, you may have greater difficulties in protecting your interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to our company, our Bermuda insurance subsidiary, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, and Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our Bye-laws, some of these differences may result in your having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or our Bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. It may be difficult to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. Our company is a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments against us or our officers and directors. We are incorporated pursuant to the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. We have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman, our Bermuda counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for investors to recover against us based upon such judgments. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares. The BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of securities of a Bermuda exempted company like us. We have received from the BMA their permission for the issue and subsequent transfer of our common shares, as long as the shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange or other appointed exchange, to and among persons resident and non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes. Before any shareholder acquires 10% or more of the voting shares, either directly or indirectly, of any of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, that shareholder must file an acquisition statement with and obtain prior approval from the domiciliary insurance commissioner of the respective company. Risks Related to Taxation U.S. taxation of our non-U.S. companies could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our non-U.S. companies, including our Bermuda and Irish companies, have operated and will operate their respective businesses in a manner that will not cause them to be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. federal excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premiums and withholding tax on specified investment income from U.S. sources) on the basis that none of them are engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, there are no definitive standards under current law as to those activities that constitute a U.S. trade or business and the determination of whether a non-U.S. company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business is inherently -35- Table of Contents factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not contend that a non-U.S. company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. If any of the non-U.S. companies are engaged in a U.S. trade or business and does not qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty, such company may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at regular corporate rates on its premium income from U.S. sources and investment income that is effectively connected with its U.S. trade or business. In addition, a U.S. federal branch profits tax at the rate of 30% will be imposed on the earnings and profits attributable to such income. All of the premium income from U.S. sources and a significant portion of investment income of such company, as computed under Section 842 of the Code, requiring that a foreign company carrying on a U.S. insurance or reinsurance business have a certain minimum amount of effectively connected net investment income, determined in accordance with a formula that depends, in part, on the amount of U.S. risks insured or reinsured by such company, may be subject to U.S. federal income and branch profits taxes. If Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda insurance subsidiary, or any Bermuda insurance subsidiary we form or acquire in the future is engaged in a U.S. trade or business and qualifies for benefits under the United States-Bermuda tax treaty, U.S. federal income taxation of such subsidiary will depend on whether (i) it maintains a U.S. permanent establishment and (ii) the relief from taxation under the treaty generally applies to non-premium income. We believe that our Bermuda insurance subsidiary has operated and will continue to operate its business in a manner that will not cause it to maintain a U.S. permanent establishment. However, the determination of whether an insurance company maintains a U.S. permanent establishment is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that our Bermuda insurance subsidiary maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. In such case, our Bermuda insurance subsidiary will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and branch profit tax at the rate of 30% with respect to its income attributable to the permanent establishment. Furthermore, although the provisions of the treaty clearly apply to premium income, it is uncertain whether they generally apply to other income of a Bermuda insurance company. Therefore, if a Bermuda insurance subsidiary of our company qualifies for benefits under the treaty and does not maintain a U.S. permanent establishment but is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, and the treaty is interpreted not to apply to income other than premium income, such subsidiary will be subject to U.S. federal income and branch profits taxes on its investment and other non-premium income as described in the preceding paragraph. In addition, a Bermuda subsidiary will qualify for benefits under the treaty only if more than 50% of its shares are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by individuals who are Bermuda residents or U.S. citizens or residents. Our Bermuda subsidiaries may not be able to continually satisfy such beneficial ownership test or be able to establish it to the satisfaction of the IRS. If any of Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd or our Irish companies are engaged in a U.S. trade or business and qualifies for benefits under the Ireland-United States income tax treaty, U.S. federal income taxation of such company will depend on whether it maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. We believe that each such company has operated and will continue to operate its business in a manner that will not cause it to maintain a U.S. permanent establishment. However, the determination of whether a non-U.S. company maintains a U.S. permanent establishment is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that any of such companies maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. In such case, the company will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and branch profits tax at the rate of 5% with respect to its income attributable to the permanent establishment. U.S. federal income tax, if imposed, will be based on effectively connected or attributable income of a non-U.S. company computed in a manner generally analogous to that applied to the income of a U.S. corporation, except that all deductions and credits claimed by a non-U.S. company in a taxable year can be disallowed if the company does not file a U.S. federal income tax return for such year. Penalties may be assessed for failure to file such return. None of our non-U.S. companies filed U.S. federal income tax returns for the 2002 and 2001 taxable years. However, we have filed protective U.S. federal income tax returns on a timely basis for each non-U.S. company for subsequent years in order to preserve our right to claim tax deductions and credits in such years if any of such companies is determined to be subject to U.S. federal income tax. If any of our non-U.S. companies is subject to such U.S. federal taxation, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to additional U.S. taxes in connection with our interaffiliate arrangements. Our U.S. subsidiaries reinsure a significant portion of their insurance policies with Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd. While we believe that the terms of these reinsurance arrangements are arm’s length, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that the payments made by the U.S. subsidiaries with respect to such arrangements exceed arm’s length amounts. In such case, our U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as realizing additional income that may be subject to additional U.S. income tax, possibly with interest and penalties. Such excess amount may also be deemed to have been distributed as dividends to the indirect parent of the U.S. subsidiaries, Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd, in which case this deemed dividend will also be subject to a -36- Table of Contents U.S. federal withholding tax of 5%, assuming that the parent is eligible for benefits under the United States-Ireland income tax treaty (or a withholding tax of 30% if the parent is not so eligible). If any of these U.S. taxes are imposed, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if legislation is enacted in the U.S. that limits or eliminates our ability to enter into interaffiliate arrangements, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. You may be subject to U.S. income taxation with respect to income of our non-U.S. companies and ordinary income characterization of gains on disposition of our shares under the controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) rules. We believe that U.S. persons holding our shares should not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation with respect to income of our non-U.S. companies prior to the distribution of earnings attributable to such income or ordinary income characterization of gains on disposition of shares on the basis that such persons should not be “United States shareholders” subject to the CFC rules of the Code. Generally, each “United States shareholder” of a CFC will be subject to (i) U.S. federal income taxation on its ratable share of the CFC’s subpart F income, even if the earnings attributable to such income are not distributed, provided that such “United States shareholder” holds directly or through non-U.S. entities shares of the CFC; and (ii) potential ordinary income characterization of gains from the sale or exchange of the directly owned shares of the non-U.S. corporation. For these purposes, any U.S. person who owns directly, through non-U.S. entities, or under applicable constructive ownership rules, 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of any non-U.S. company will be considered to be a “United States shareholder.” Although our non-U.S. companies may be or become CFCs and certain of our principal U.S. shareholders currently own 10% or more of our common shares, for the following reasons we believe that no U.S. person holding our shares directly, or through non-U.S. entities, should be a “United States shareholder.” First, our Bye-laws provide that if a U.S. person (including any founding shareholder) owns directly or through non-U.S. entities any of our shares, the number of votes conferred by the shares owned directly, indirectly or under applicable constructive ownership rules by such person will be less than 10% of the aggregate number of votes conferred by all issued shares of Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd. Second, our Bye-laws restrict issuance, conversion, transfer and repurchase of the shares to the extent such transaction would cause a U.S. person holding directly or through non-U.S. entities any of our shares to own directly, through non-U.S. entities or under applicable constructive ownership rules shares representing 10% or more of the voting power in Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd. Third, our Bye-laws and the bye-laws of our non-U.S. subsidiaries require (i) the Board of Directors of Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd to consist only of persons who have been elected as directors of Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd (with the number and classification of directors of Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd being identical to those of Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd) and (ii) the Board of Directors of each other non-U.S., non-Bermuda insurance or reinsurance subsidiary of Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd to consist only of persons approved by our shareholders as persons eligible to be elected as directors of such subsidiary. Therefore, U.S. persons holding our shares should not be subject to the CFC rules of the Code (except that a U.S. person may be subject to the ordinary income characterization of gains on disposition of shares if such person owned 10% or more of our total voting power solely under the applicable constructive ownership rules at any time during the 5-year period ending on the date of the disposition when we were a CFC). We cannot assure you, however, that the Bye-law provisions referenced in this paragraph will operate as intended or that we will be otherwise successful in preventing a U.S. person from exceeding, or being deemed to exceed, these voting limitations. Accordingly, U.S. persons who hold our shares directly or through non-U.S. entities should consider the possible application of the CFC rules. You may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the related person insurance income (“RPII”) rules. Our non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries currently insure and reinsure and are expected to continue to insure and reinsure directly or indirectly certain of our U.S. shareholders and persons related to such shareholders. We believe that U.S. persons that hold our shares directly or through non-U.S. entities will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation with respect to the income realized in connection with such insurance and reinsurance prior to distribution of earnings attributable to such income on the basis that RPII, determined on a gross basis, realized by each non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiary will be less than 20% of its gross insurance income in each taxable year. We currently monitor and will continue to monitor the amount of RPII realized and, when appropriate, will decline to write primary insurance and reinsurance for our U.S. shareholders and persons related to such shareholders. However, we cannot assure you that the measures described in this paragraph will operate as intended. In addition, some of the factors that determine the extent of RPII in any period may be beyond our knowledge or control. For example, we may be considered to insure indirectly the risk of our shareholder if an unrelated company that insured such risk in the first instance reinsures such risk with us. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in keeping the RPII realized by the non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries below the 20% limit in each taxable year. Furthermore, even if we are successful in keeping the RPII below the 20% limit, we cannot assure you that we will be able to establish that fact to the satisfaction of the U.S. tax authorities. If we are unable to establish that the RPII of any non-U.S. insurance or reinsurance subsidiary is less than 20% of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year, and no other exception from the RPII rules applies, each U.S. person who owns our shares, -37- Table of Contents directly or through non-U.S. entities, on the last day of the taxable year will be generally required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately to U.S. holders at that date, regardless of whether that income was actually distributed. The RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII (even if the amount of RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business and these rules appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will interpret these rules in this manner or that the proposed regulations addressing the RPII rules will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. U.S. tax-exempt entities may recognize unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). A U.S. tax-exempt entity holding our shares generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to dividends and gains on our shares, provided that such entity does not purchase our shares with borrowed funds. However, if a U.S. tax-exempt entity realizes income with respect to our shares under the CFC or RPII rules, as discussed above, such entity will be generally subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to such income as UBTI. Accordingly, U.S. tax-exempt entities that are potential investors in our shares should consider the possible application of the CFC and RPII rules. You may be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation with respect to distributions on and gains on dispositions of our shares under the passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) rules. We believe that U.S. persons holding our shares should not be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation with respect to distributions on and gains on dispositions of shares under the PFIC rules. We expect that our insurance subsidiaries will be predominantly engaged in, and derive their income from the active conduct of, an insurance business and will not hold reserves in excess of reasonable needs of their business, and therefore qualify for the insurance exception from the PFIC rules. However, the determination of the nature of such business and the reasonableness of such reserves is inherently factual. Furthermore, we cannot assure you, as to what positions the IRS or a court might take in the future regarding the application of the PFIC rules to us. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered to be a PFIC. If we are considered to be a PFIC, U.S. persons holding our shares could be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation on distributions on and gains on dispositions of shares. Accordingly, each U.S. person who is considering an investment in our shares should consult his or her tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. Application of a published IRS Revenue Ruling with respect to our insurance or reinsurance arrangements can materially adversely affect us. The IRS published Revenue Ruling 2005-40 (the “Ruling”) addressing the requirement of adequate risk distribution among insureds in order for a primary insurance arrangement to constitute insurance for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS successfully contends that our insurance or reinsurance arrangements, including such arrangements with affiliates of our principal shareholders, and with our U.S. subsidiaries, do not provide for adequate risk distribution under the principles set forth in the Ruling, we could be subject to material adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. We may be subject to U.K. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. None of our companies are incorporated in the United Kingdom. Accordingly, none of our companies should be treated as being resident in the United Kingdom for corporation tax purposes unless the central management and control of any such company is exercised in the United Kingdom. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, which is wholly a question of fact. Each of our companies currently intend to manage our affairs so that none of our companies are resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes. The rules governing the taxation of foreign companies operating in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency were amended by the Finance Act 2003. The current rules apply to the accounting periods of non-U.K. resident companies which start on or after January 1, 2003. Accordingly, a non-U.K. resident company will only be subject to U.K. corporation tax if it carries on a trade in the -38- Table of Contents United Kingdom through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. In that case, the company is, in broad terms, taxable on the profits and gains attributable to the permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. Broadly a company will have a permanent establishment if it has a fixed place of business in the United Kingdom through which the business of the company is wholly or partly carried on or if an agent acting on behalf of the company has and habitually exercises authority in the United Kingdom to do business on behalf of the company. Each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited (which have established branches in the United Kingdom), currently intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited, carry on a trade through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. If any of our U.S. subsidiaries were trading in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency and the U.S. subsidiaries were to qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty between the United Kingdom and the United States, only those profits which were attributable to a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom would be subject to U.K. corporation tax. If Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd was trading in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency and it was entitled to the benefits of the tax treaty between Ireland and the United Kingdom, it would only be subject to U.K. taxation on its profits which were attributable to a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. The branches established in the United Kingdom by Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited constitute a permanent establishment of those companies and the profits attributable to those permanent establishments are subject to U.K. corporation tax. The United Kingdom has no income tax treaty with Bermuda. There are circumstances in which companies that are neither resident in the United Kingdom nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the United Kingdom and the jurisdiction in which they are resident may be exposed to income tax in the United Kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) on income arising in the United Kingdom (including the profits of a trade carried on there even if that trade is not carried on through a branch agency or permanent establishment), but each of our companies currently operates in such a manner that none of our companies will fall within the charge to income tax in the United Kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) in this respect. If any of our companies were treated as being resident in the United Kingdom for U.K. corporation tax purposes, or if any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Reinsurance) Limited and Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited, were to be treated as carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom through a branch agency or of having a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, our results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to Irish tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Companies resident in Ireland are generally subject to Irish corporation tax on their worldwide income and capital gains. None of our companies, other than our Irish companies and Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd, which resides in Ireland, should be treated as being resident in Ireland unless the central management and control of any such company is exercised in Ireland. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, and is wholly a question of fact. Each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, currently intend to operate in such a manner so that the central management and control of each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, is exercised outside of Ireland. Nevertheless, because central management and control is a question of fact to be determined based on a number of different factors, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that the central management and control of any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd or our Irish companies, is exercised in Ireland. Should this occur, such company will be subject to Irish corporation tax on their worldwide income and capital gains. The trading income of a company not resident in Ireland for Irish tax purposes can also be subject to Irish corporation tax if it carries on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Each of our companies currently intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies carry on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Nevertheless, because neither case law nor Irish legislation definitively defines the activities that constitute trading in Ireland through a branch or agency, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, is trading through a branch or agency in Ireland. Should this occur, such companies will be subject to Irish corporation tax on profits attributable to that branch or agency. -39- Table of Contents If any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, were treated as resident in Ireland for Irish corporation tax purposes, or as carrying on a trade in Ireland through a branch or agency, our results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. If corporate tax rates in Ireland increase, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Trading income derived from the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on in Ireland by our Irish companies is generally taxed in Ireland at a rate of 12.5%. Over the past number of years, various European Union Member States have, from time to time, called for harmonization of corporate tax rates within the European Union. Ireland, along with other member states, has consistently resisted any movement towards standardized corporate tax rates in the European Union. The Government of Ireland has also made clear its commitment to retain the 12.5% rate of corporation tax until at least the year 2025. Should, however, tax laws in Ireland change so as to increase the general corporation tax rate in Ireland, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If investments held by our Irish companies are determined not to be integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies, additional Irish tax could be imposed and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Based on administrative practice, taxable income derived from investments made by our Irish companies is generally taxed in Ireland at the rate of 12.5% on the grounds that such investments either form part of the permanent capital required by regulatory authorities, or are otherwise integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies. Our Irish companies intend to operate in such a manner so that the level of investments held by such companies does not exceed the amount that is integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by our Irish companies. If, however, investment income earned by our Irish companies exceeds these thresholds, or if the administrative practice of the Irish Revenue Commissioners changes, Irish corporation tax could apply to such investment income at a higher rate (currently 25%) instead of the general 12.5% rate, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our investment. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, has given Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, Ltd and each of its Bermuda subsidiaries an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to such entities or their operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. GLOSSARY OF SELECTED INSURANCE AND OTHER TERMS Admitted insurer An insurer that is licensed or authorized to write insurance in a particular state; to be distinguished from an insurer eligible to write excess and surplus lines insurance on risks located within a jurisdiction. Attachment point The loss point of which an insurance or reinsurance policy becomes operative and below which any losses are retained by either the insured or other insurers or reinsurers, as the case may be. Capacity The maximum percentage of surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions. Case reserves Loss reserves, established with respect to specific, individual reported claims. Catastrophe exposure or event A severe loss, typically involving multiple claimants. Common perils include -40- Table of Contents earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. Catastrophe losses may also arise from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Catastrophe reinsurance A form of excess-of-loss reinsurance that, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a “catastrophe cover.” These reinsurance contracts are typically designed to cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover other types of insurance losses such as workers’ compensation policies. Cede, cedent, ceding company When an insurer transfers some or all of its risk to a reinsurer, it “cedes” business and is referred to as the “ceding company” or “cedent.” Commercial coverage Insurance products that are sold to entities and individuals in their business or professional capacity, and which are intended for other than the insured’s personal or household use. Deductible The amount of loss that an insured retains. Also referred to as “retention”. Direct insurance Insurance sold by an insurer that contracts directly with the insured, as distinguished from reinsurance. Directors and officers liability Insurance that covers liability for corporate directors and officers for wrongful acts, subject to applicable exclusions, terms and conditions of the policy. Earned premiums or premiums earned That portion of premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term. Earned premiums are recognized as revenues under both statutory accounting practice and U.S. GAAP. Excess and surplus lines A risk or a part of a risk for which there is no insurance market available among admitted insurers; or insurance written by non-admitted insurance companies to cover such risks. Excess layer Insurance to cover losses in one or more layers above a certain amount with losses below that amount usually covered by the insured’s primary policy and its self-insured retention. Excess-of-loss reinsurance Reinsurance that indemnifies the insured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified amount or “retention.” Exclusions Provisions in an insurance or reinsurance policy excluding certain risks or otherwise limiting the scope of coverage. Exposure The possibility of loss. A unit of measure of the amount of risk a company assumes. Facultative reinsurance The reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is separately negotiated. Frequency The number of claims occurring during a specified period of time. -41- Table of Contents General casualty Insurance that is primarily concerned with losses due to injuries to persons and liability imposed on the insured for such injury or for damage to the property of others. Gross premiums written Total premiums for insurance written and reinsurance written during a given period. Healthcare liability Insurance coverage, often referred to as medical malpractice insurance, which addresses liability risks of doctors, surgeons, nurses, other healthcare professionals and the institutions (hospitals, clinics) in which they practice. Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) reserves Reserves established by us for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us as well as for changes in the values of claims that have been reported to us but are not yet settled. In-force Policies that have not expired or been terminated and for which the insurer remains on risk as of a given date. Limits or gross maximum limits The maximum amount that an insurer or reinsurer will insure or reinsure for a specified risk, a portfolio of risks or on a single insured entity. The term also refers to the maximum amount of benefit payable for a given claim or occurrence. Loss An occurrence that is the basis for submission or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or excluded from coverage, depending on the terms of the insurance policy or other insurance or reinsurance contracts. Losses incurred The total losses and loss adjustment expenses paid, plus the change in loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, including IBNR, sustained by an insurance or reinsurance company under its insurance policies or other insurance or reinsurance contracts. Loss expenses The expenses incurred by an insurance or reinsurance company in settling a loss. Loss reserves Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay. Reserves are established for losses and for loss expenses, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this Form 10-K, “loss reserves” is meant to include reserves for both losses and for loss expenses. Net premiums earned The portion of net premiums written during or prior to a given period that was recognized as income during such period. Net premiums written Gross premiums written, less premiums ceded to reinsurers. Per occurrence limitations The maximum amount recoverable under an insurance or reinsurance policy as a result of any one event, regardless of the number of claims. Primary insurance (or primary risk layer) Insurance that absorbs the losses immediately above the insured’s retention layer. A primary insurer will pay up to a certain dollar amount of losses over the insured’s retention, at which point a higher layer excess insurer will be liable for -42- Table of Contents additional losses. The coverage terms of a primary insurance layer typically assume an element of regular loss frequency. Probable maximum loss (“PML”) An estimate of the largest probable loss on any given insurance policy or coverage. Producer A licensed professional, often referred to as either an insurance agent, insurance broker or intermediary, who acts as intermediary between the insurance carrier and the insured or reinsured (as the case may be). Product liability Insurance that provides coverage to manufacturer and/or distributors of tangible goods against liability for personal injury caused if such products are unsafe or defective. Professional liability Insurance that provides liability coverage to directors and officers, attorneys, doctors, accountants and other professionals who offer services to the general public and claim expertise in a particular area greater than the ordinary layperson for their negligence or malfeasance. Property catastrophe coverage In reinsurance, coverage that protects the ceding company against accumulated losses in excess of a stipulated sum that arise from a catastrophic event such as an earthquake, fire or windstorm. “Catastrophe loss” generally refers to the total loss of an insurer arising out of a single catastrophic event. Quota share reinsurance A proportional reinsurance treaty in which the ceding company cedes an agreed-on percentage of every risk it insures that falls within a class or classes of business subject to the treaty. Reinstatement premium The premium paid by a ceding company for the right and, typically the obligation to reinstate the portion of coverage exhausted by prior claims. Reinstatement provisions typically limit the amount of aggregate coverage for all claims during the contract period and often require additional premium payments. Reinsurance The practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that reinsurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance that it has issued. Reinsurance does not legally discharge the ceding company from its liability with respect to its obligations to the insured. Retention The amount of exposure an insured retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance policy, where the insured is an individual or business, or a reinsurance contract, where the insured is an insurance company. See “Deductible.” Retrocessional coverage A transaction whereby a reinsurer cedes to another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has assumed. Retrocessional reinsurance does not legally discharge the ceding reinsurer from its liability with respect to its obligations to the reinsured. Reinsurance companies cede risks to retrocessionaires for reasons similar to those that cause insurers to purchase reinsurance: to reduce net liability on individual risks, to protect against catastrophic losses, to stabilize financial ratios and to obtain additional underwriting capacity. Run-off Liability of an insurance or reinsurance company for existing claims that it -43- Table of Contents expects to pay in the future and for which a loss reserve has been established. Self-insured A term which describes a risk, or part of a risk, retained by the insured in lieu of transferring the risk to an insurer. A policy deductible or retention feature allows a policyholder to self-insure a portion of an exposure and thereby reduce its risk-transfer costs. Specialty lines A term used in the insurance and reinsurance industry to describe types of insurance or classes of business that require specialized expertise to underwrite. Insurance and reinsurance for these classes of business is not widely available and is typically purchased from the specialty lines divisions of larger insurance companies or from small specialty lines insurers. For our direct insurance operations, specialty lines include environmental liability and Defense Base Act products. For our reinsurance business written from Bermuda and Europe, specialty lines include workers compensation catastrophe and political risk products and industry loss warranties. For our reinsurance business written from the United States, specialty lines include professional liability products such as directors and officers, errors and omissions and medical malpractice. Subpart F income Insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) and foreign personal holding company income (including interest, dividends and other passive investment income). Surplus (or statutory surplus) As determined under statutory accounting principles, the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted from all of the “admitted” assets (i.e., those permitted by regulation to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet). Surplus is also referred to as “statutory surplus” or “surplus as regards policyholders” for statutory accounting purposes. Surplus lines A risk or a part of a risk for which there is no insurance market available among admitted insurers or insurance written by non-admitted insurance companies to cover such risks. Treaty reinsurance The reinsurance of a specified type or category of risks defined in a reinsurance agreement (a “treaty”) between an insurer and a reinsurer. Typically, in treaty reinsurance, the primary insurer (or reinsured) is obligated to offer and the reinsurer is obligated to accept a specified portion of all of that type or category of risk originally written by the insurer. Underwriter An employee of an insurance or reinsurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in order to charge an appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business. Underwriting results The pre-tax profit or loss experienced by an insurance company that is calculated by deducting net losses and loss expenses, net acquisition costs and general and administration expenses from net premiums earned. This profit or loss calculation includes reinsurance assumed and ceded but excludes investment income. Unearned premium The portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term or underlying risk. -44- Table of Contents Working layer Primary insurance that absorbs the losses immediately above the insured’s retention layer. A working layer insurer will pay up to a certain dollar amount of losses over the insured’s retention, at which point a higher layer excess insurer will be liable for additional losses. The coverage terms of a working layer typically assume an element of loss frequency. Written premium The premium entered on an insurer’s books for a policy issued during a given period of time, whether coverage is provided only during that period of time or also during subsequent periods. 