Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to the Merger between Harleysville National Corporation and Willow Financial Bancorp The value of the shares of Harleysville National common stock that Willow Financial shareholders receive upon the consummation of the merger may be less than the value of shares of Harleysville National or Willow Financial common stock as of the date the merger agreement was entered into or the date of the special meetings. The exchange ratio in the merger agreement is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in the stock prices of Harleysville National Corporation (“Harleysville National”) or Willow Financial prior to the merger. There also may be a period of time between the date when shareholders of each of Harleysville National and Willow Financial vote on the merger agreement and the date when the merger is completed. The relative prices of Harleysville National and Willow Financial common stock may vary between the date of this Annual Report and the date of completion of the merger. The market price of Harleysville National and Willow Financial common stock may change as a result of a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, 24 Table of Contents changes in its business, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond the control of Harleysville National or Willow Financial, and are not necessarily related to a change in the financial performance or condition of Harleysville National or Willow Financial. As Harleysville National and Willow Financial market share prices fluctuate, based on numerous factors, the value of the shares of Harleysville National common stock that a Willow Financial shareholder will receive will correspondingly fluctuate. In addition, it is impossible to predict accurately the market price of Harleysville National common stock after completion of the merger. Accordingly, the current prices of Harleysville National and Willow Financial common stock may not be indicative of their prices immediately prior to completion of the merger and the price of Harleysville National common stock after the merger is completed. Willow Financial directors and executive officers may have interests in the merger that differ from the shareholders. Some of Willow Financial’s directors and executive officers have interests in the transaction other than their interests as shareholders. For example, Donna Coughey, a director and the President and Chief Executive Officer of Willow Financial has previously entered into an employment agreement with Willow Financial and Willow Financial Bank that would provide her with change-in-control payments upon termination of her employment in connection with a change in control of Willow Financial and Willow Financial Bank. Harleysville National has agreed that it will endeavor to continue the employment of all current Willow Financial employees in positions that will contribute to the successful performance of the combined organization, but it is not obligated to continue the employment of all current Willow Financial employees. Harleysville National will notify Willow Financial employees if it expects to eliminate their current positions after the merger becomes effective. These reductions will not necessarily be entirely achieved through employee layoffs, but may be realized through normal attrition and reassignment of employees from existing positions to other positions. If before the merger or within one year after the effective time of the merger, Harleysville National elects to displace an employee or eliminate an employee’s position, it will pay two weeks severance for each year of the employee’s combined service with Willow Financial and Willow Financial Bank, with a minimum of four weeks and a maximum of 26 weeks of severance, provided the employee does not have a change in control agreement or employment agreement and is not terminated for cause. During the severance period Harleysville National will continue to pay its share of medical benefits until the earlier of the end of the severance period or the date on which the employee enrolls in another health plan. Severance pay for employees with change in control agreements or employment agreements will be governed by the terms of the relevant agreement. Willow Financial Bank employees will be immediately eligible for participation in all Harleysville National benefit plans generally offered to Harleysville National employees on the terms of such benefit plans. All unvested stock options under Willow Financial’s stock option plans, including options owned by executive officers and directors, will fully vest on the effective date of the merger. In addition, all unvested shares granted under Willow Financial’s Recognition and Retention Plans and Trust Agreements, including those shares granted to executive officers and directors, will fully vest on the effective date of the merger. Donna Coughey has entered into a new employment agreement with a subsidiary of Harleysville National for a one-year term. This employment agreement will become effective on the effective date of the merger. Harleysville National has agreed to hire Donna Coughey as an Executive Vice President of Harleysville National and Harleysville National Bank. Her annual salary under the employment agreement will be $350,000. She will also receive other benefits. Donna Coughey’s existing employment agreement with Willow Financial and Willow Financial Bank will be terminated on the effective date of the merger. Ms. Coughey will receive a lump sum payment of $1.5 million under a termination agreement upon the effective date of the merger in exchange for the termination of her employment agreement with Willow Financial and Willow Financial Bank and providing a release in favor of Willow Financial and Harleysville National. The employment agreements for Messrs. Ammon J. Baus, Richard Bertolet, and Matthew Kelly, and the change in control agreement for Neelesh Kalani, provide for certain change in control benefits that may be triggered by the merger and the subsequent termination of the executive’s employment by Harleysville National other than for cause (as defined in the agreements), disability, retirement or death, or by the executive for good reason (as defined in the agreements). If the change in control provisions in these agreements are triggered, Messrs. Ammon J. Baus, Richard Bertolet, Matthew Kelly and Neelesh Kalani will be entitled to receive approximately $380 thousand, $390 thousand, $364 thousand and $136 thousand, respectively. Harleysville National will assume the employment agreements as a result of the merger. The employment agreements for Messrs. Roy Johnston, Colin N. Maropis, Thomas Saunders, Kevin Roche, Michael Kerl, and Robert McGinley provide for certain change in control benefits that may be triggered by the merger and the subsequent termination of the executive’s employment by Harleysville National other than for cause (as defined in the agreements), disability, retirement or death, or by the executive for good reason (as defined in the agreements). If the change in control provisions is triggered 25 Table of Contents in all of these agreements, the payments could equal in the aggregate approximately $1.3 million. Harleysville National will assume these agreements, along with Russ Carlson’s employment agreement, as a result of the merger. Certain other executive officers and employees of Willow Financial have change in control agreements that may be triggered by the merger and the subsequent termination of employment by Harleysville National other than for cause (as defined in the agreements), death, disability or retirement, or by the employee for good reason (as defined in the agreements). If the change in control provisions in all of these agreements is triggered, the payments could equal in the aggregate approximately $1.9 million. Ms. Donna Coughey and Messrs. Ammon J. Baus, Christopher Blakely, Matthew D. Kelly, Thomas Saunders and Allen Wagner each participate in Willow Financial’s supplemental executive retirement plan. Their combined vested and unvested interests in the plan equal approximately $296 thousand, $155 thousand, $23 thousand, $31 thousand, $44 thousand and $137 thousand. Upon the effective date of the merger, each individual’s interest in the plan will become fully vested. Ms. Donna Coughey and Messrs. William Byrne, Colin Maropis, Matthew Kelly and G. Richard Bertolet are each a party to an executive survivor income agreement. These agreements provide that if the executive’s employment is terminated within twelve months following a change in control (as defined in the agreements) other than for cause (as defined in the agreements), or is terminated by the executive for good reason (as defined in the agreements) within such twelve month period, the executive’s named beneficiary will be entitled to receive a death benefit if the terminated executive dies before reaching age 85. The death benefit that Ms. Donna Coughey’s and Messrs. William Byrne’s, Colin Maropis’, Matthew Kelly’s and G. Richard Bertolet’s beneficiaries would be entitled to receive in such a situation is $500 thousand, $150 thousand, $250 thousand, $250thousand and $250 thousand, respectively. Certain of Willow Financial’s executive officers, employees and directors participate in Willow Financial’s deferred compensation plans. If these plans are terminated in connection with the merger, the participants will be entitled to receive a lump sum distribution of their account balance. As of May 19, 2008, the total balance of all accounts under the deferred compensation plans was approximately $2.1 million. Mr. Russ Carlson will receive a deferred incentive payment pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement by and between Russ Carlson, Beneserv, Inc. and Willow Financial Bank as a result of the merger in the amount of approximately $750 thousand. After the merger is completed, Willow Financial shareholders will become Harleysville National shareholders and will have different rights that may be less advantageous than their current rights. Upon completion of the merger, Willow Financial shareholders will become Harleysville National shareholders. Differences in Willow Financial’s articles of incorporation and bylaws and Harleysville National’s articles of incorporation and bylaws will result in changes to the rights of Willow Financial shareholders who become Harleysville National shareholders. If the merger is not completed, Willow Financial will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits. Willow Financial will incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger. The completion of the merger depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions and the receipt of regulatory approvals. Willow Financial and Harleysville National cannot guarantee that these conditions will be met. If the merger is not completed, these expenses could have a material adverse impact on the financial condition of Willow Financial because it would not have realized the expected benefits. Failure to complete the merger in certain circumstances could require Willow Financial to pay a termination fee. If the merger should fail to occur in certain circumstances, Willow Financial may be obligated to pay Harleysville National $7.0 million as a termination fee. Risk Factors Related to the Operations of Willow Financial Bancorp on a Stand-Alone Basis If the merger with Harleysville National is not completed, Willow Financial Bancorp will continue to face certain risk factors related to its on-going operations. In the event that the proposed merger with Harleysville National Corporation is not completed, Willow Financial Bancorp will continue its operations as an independent entity and, as such, would continue to face certain risks in its on-going operations, as described below. Even if the merger is completed as expected in the fourth calendar quarter of 2008, the Company will face these risks on an independent basis until the time of the merger. 26 Table of Contents The Company’s operations are subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed money. Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to may factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, influence the amount of interest income that the Bank receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest that the Bank pays on deposits and borrowings. Changes in monetary policy and interest rates also can adversely affect: · Our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; · The fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and · The average duration of our securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. The Company measure interest rate risk under various rate scenarios using specific criteria and assumptions. A summary of this process, along with the results of our net portfolio value simulations and gap analyses is presented within “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company is subject to lending risk and could suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. There are risks inherent in making any loan, including those related to dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and changes in economic and industry conditions. The Company attempts to closely manage its credit risk through loan underwriting and application approval procedures, monitoring of large loan relationship and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our lending department and third party loan review specialists. The Company cannot assure that such approval and monitoring procedures will reduce these credit risks. The Company’s loan portfolio includes commercial and multi-family real estate, commercial business and construction loans, which generally have a higher degree of risk of loss than single-family residential loans. As of June 30, 2008, approximately 29.4% of the Company’s total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and multi-family real estate loans and construction loans. In addition, 12.4% of the Company’s loan portfolio at June 30, 2008 consisted of commercial business loans. These types of loans involve increased risks because the borrower’s ability to repay the loan typically depends on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan. Additionally, these loans are made to small or middle-market business customers who may be more vulnerable to economic conditions and who may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. These types of loans are also typically larger than single-family residential real estate loans or consumer loans. Furthermore, since these types of loans frequently have relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or more of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans and non-performing assets. An increase in non-performing loans would result in a reduction in interest income recognized on loans. An increase in non-performing loans also could require us to increase the provision for losses on loans and increase loan charge-offs, both of which would reduce our net income. All of these could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic and business conditions in our primary market area could cause an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing asset, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The substantial majority of our real estate loans are secured by properties located in Bucks, Montgomery and Chester Counties, Pennsylvania, and Philadelphia and its suburbs in southeastern Pennsylvania, central and southern New Jersey and Delaware. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, particularly in the Philadelphia metropolitan area, including decreases in real estate values, adverse local employment conditions, and other significant local events. Any deterioration in the local economy could result in borrowers not being able to repay their loans, the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans to borrowers declining and the quality of the loan portfolio deteriorating. This could result in an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require the Company to record loan charge-offs and/or increase the Company’s provisions for loan losses, which would reduce the Company’s earnings. 27 Table of Contents The Company’s allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual losses. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses at a level believed adequate by us to absorb credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense that represents our estimate of probable incurred losses within the loan portfolio at each statement of financial condition date and is based on the review of available and relevant information. The level of the allowance for loan losses reflects, among other things, our consideration of the Company’s historical experience, levels of and trends in delinquencies, the amount of classified assts, the volume and type of lending, and current and anticipated economic conditions, especially as they relate to the Company’s primary market area. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual losses experienced on loans. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge offs, based on judgments different from ours. Also, if charge offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, the Company’s provision for loan losses amounted to $3.2 million. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area with other financial institutions offering products and services similar to those the Company offers. The Company competes with savings associations, national banks, regional banks, and other community banks in making loans, attracting deposits and recruiting and retaining talented employees, many of which have greater financial and technical resources than us. The Company also competes with securities and brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies, money market mutual funds, credit unions and other non-bank financial service providers. Many of these competitors are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions to which the Company is subject, yet are able to provide customers with a feasible alternative to traditional banking services. The competition in our market for making commercial and construction loans has resulted in more competitive pricing as well as intense competition for skilled commercial lending officers. These trends could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The competition in our market for attracting deposits also has resulted in more competitive pricing. The Company depends on the skills and performance of management. The Company depends heavily on its management team to provide leadership and to implement its strategic plan. The Company’s senior management team provides valuable financial expertise and administrative guidance. The loss of any member of our senior management team provides valuable financial expertise and administrative guidance. The loss of any member of our senior management team could impair the Company’s ability to succeed. The Company can give no assurances; however, that these executive officers will continue in their capacities for any specific periods of time The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, which could adversely affect its operations. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulations and supervisions. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with law, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents Item 