Risk Factors Applicable to U. S. Steel Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Production at USSE was curtailed in January 2009 due to the suspension of natural gas deliveries to Europe from Russia transported through Ukraine and we remain vulnerable to this risk. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel. Approximately 60 percent of U. S. Steel’s Flat-rolled segment sales in the United States are based on sales contracts with volume commitments and durations of at least one quarter, while lesser percentages of Tubular and USSE segment sales are made pursuant to such contacts. These contracts generally have a fixed price or a price 32 Table of Contents that will fluctuate with changes in a defined index and do not always have firm volume commitments. During periods of rapid escalation of raw materials, energy and other costs such as was experienced in 2008, U. S. Steel may not be able to recover these cost increases from customers with existing fixed price agreements. Conversely, some purchase contracts require annual commitments and in periods of rapid decline, such as 2009, U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market-based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced. Declines in the production levels of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our Flat-rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction-related industries, all of which reported substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels, leading to a reduction in oil and gas exploration and development, which in turn has resulted in lower customer demand for our Tubular segment. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. The terms of our indebtedness contain provisions that may limit our flexibility. The Amended Credit Agreement is now secured by a lien on a majority of our domestic inventory and certain of our accounts receivable and includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that applies when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than $112.5 million. Because the Amended Credit Agreement was undrawn throughout 2009, this covenant was not applicable, but based on the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, we would not have met this covenant. The value or levels of inventory may decrease or we may not be able to meet this covenant in the future, and either or both of these situations would limit our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Agreement. We also amended our $500 million RPA, which among other things increased pricing, reserve factors and percentages; changed the definition of Eligible Receivables, which resulted in an increase in the amount of our receivables ineligible for purchase; and added a change of control provision. Reductions in accounts receivable would limit our ability to sell receivables. In general, availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is limited to a monthly borrowing base for certain eligible domestic inventory. Further inventory reductions could limit availability to less than the potential $750 million. If availability under the Amended Credit Agreement falls below the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million, we would also be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. This may be a particular problem when market conditions and order levels improve and U. S. Steel needs the liquidity to rebuild working capital. We have granted the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement a secured position in our most liquid assets, which may be a detriment to other creditors. The Amended Credit Agreement, our Senior Convertible Notes issued in 2009 and our $1.6 billion of Senior Notes issued in 2007 also contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale-leasebacks. Additionally, the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and repurchase of the Senior Convertible Notes and Senior Notes is required upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. The Amended Credit Agreement, the Senior Convertible Notes and the RPA have provisions that certain defaults under a material debt obligation could cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Senior Convertible Notes or termination of the RPA. These terms may affect our liquidity, our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. All three major ratings agencies have downgraded the ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt in the last year. This has caused increases in borrowing costs under our credit facilities. We have been required to and may be forced to provide additional collateral or financial assurance for environmental closure and other presently unsecured obligations. These and any future downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 33 Table of Contents “Change in control” clauses in our financial and labor agreements grant the other parties to those agreements rights to accelerate obligations and to terminate or extend our labor agreements. Upon the occurrence of “change in control” events specified in our Senior Notes, Amended Credit Agreement, Senior Convertible Notes and various other contracts and leases, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately repurchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. Additionally, the 2008 CBAs give the USW the right to either terminate or extend the collective bargaining agreements for an additional four years. A “change of control” is generally defined to include any of the following: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations and cash flow. For example, certain health care reform proposals could increase the cost of our health insurance plans for active employees and retirees and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. USSK, located in Slovakia, USSS, located in Serbia, and USSC, located in Canada, constitute 39 percent of our global raw steel production capability. All of them are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the countries in which they are located, and USSK is additionally subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Any future foreign acquisitions could expose us to similar risks. We are subject to significant foreign currency risks, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Our foreign operations accounted for approximately 30 percent of our net sales in 2009. The financial condition and results of operations of USSK, USSS and USSC are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States, as well as through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non-cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar-denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Any future foreign acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service, obligations, capital investment, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund. With $3,364 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we have significant debt service requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five-year period ended December 31, 2009, total capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. At December 31, 2009, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $152 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $173 million under operating leases. 34 Table of Contents In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, steelmaking and steel-finishing facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $173 million, operating lease obligations of approximately $26 million that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, and unconditional purchase obligations, including “take or pay” arrangements, totalling approximately $11.5 billion. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient, to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The limitations under our Amended Credit Agreement and RPA, described above, may limit our availability to draw upon these facilities. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed foreign earnings outside the United States; however, if we need to repatriate funds in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs, the tax consequences would reduce income and cash flow. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. Our insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insured retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steel’s flat-rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by the 2008 CBAs, which expire in September 2012. These agreements contain provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel-related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2008 CBAs, require us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities and require mandatory pre-funding of a trust for retiree health care and life insurance. These agreements also restrict our ability to trade, sell or use foreign-produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further require that the ratio of non-USW employees to USW employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to five. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USW, some foreign and non-union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. We are at risk of labor stoppages. The collective bargaining agreement covering the Lake Erie Works expired in July 2009 and there has been a work stoppage since that time. The collective bargaining agreement at the Hamilton Works expires in July 2010, and we may not enter into a successor agreement prior to that time. There are risks associated with past acquisitions, as well as any acquisitions we may make in the future. Our acquisitions of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) and Stelco created goodwill on our balance sheet which totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and which exposes us to the risk of future impairment charges. Our Flat-rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007 and our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or compound annual growth rate, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. The assumptions used will have a large impact on the conclusions reached in future tests. As of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, the Flat-rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat-rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat-rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively. The Lone Star acquisition increased our tubular production capacity by more than 50 percent and the Stelco acquisition increased our North American steelmaking capability by 25 percent, thereby increasing our exposure to cyclical downturns in historically cyclical industries such as oil and gas, service center, conversion, automotive, construction and appliance. The success of any future acquisitions will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, to finance such acquisitions and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Our acquisitions in 2007 involved purchase prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our acquisitions in 2003. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Company’s exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries. Antitrust and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from completing acquisitions. There are risks associated with existing and potential tax law and accounting requirements. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, we have not recognized a tax benefit for pre-tax losses in jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance for accounting purposes. As a result, the pre-tax losses associated with USSS and USSC do not provide any tax benefit for accounting purposes. Significant changes in the mix of pre-tax results among the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. President Obama’s administration has proposed significant changes to U.S. tax law. Some of the proposed changes, such as the repeal of the last-in first-out (LIFO) inventory cost method, could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow if they are enacted. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. We may suffer employment losses, which could negatively affect our future performance. Approximately 570 of U. S. Steel’s North American-based non-represented employees retired in 2009 as part of a voluntary early retirement program and a significant number of those remaining are or will be eligible for retirement over the next several years. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years we had intensified our recruitment, training and retention efforts so that we may continue to optimally staff our operations, but we instituted a freeze on hiring in early 2009 in response to the global economic recession. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified replacements for those leaving, our future performance may be adversely impacted. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retired or obtained other employment during the time they were laid off or subject to a work stoppage such as currently exists at Lake Erie Works. The cost reduction actions taken in 2009 increased the number of personnel and organization changes and may increase the risk of internal control failures. We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We are currently implementing an ERP system to help us operate more efficiently. This is a complex project, which is expected to be implemented in several phases over the next several years. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP program without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP system may not be realized or the costs of implementation may outweigh the realized benefits. We extended the implementation schedule in early 2009 to reduce near-term costs. This action will delay the realization of benefits from this project and may add to final project costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents 