Risk Factors — Changes to or noncompliance with governmental regulation or exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect Nabors’ results of operations. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this report, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating Nabors. The risks described below are not the only ones facing Nabors. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect drilling activity and our revenues, cash flows and profitability Our operations depend on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil and natural gas prices affect these levels. Oil and natural gas prices, as well as the level of drilling, exploration and production activity, can be highly volatile. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and natural gas. Weather conditions, governmental regulation (both in the United States and elsewhere), levels of consumer demand, the availability of pipeline capacity, and other factors beyond our control may also affect the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices is likely to continue in the foreseeable future, especially given the general contraction in the world’s economy that began during 2008. We believe that any prolonged suppression of oil and natural gas prices could continue to depress the level of exploration and production activity, which could result in a corresponding decline in demand for our services. Lower oil and natural gas prices have also caused some of our customers to seek to terminate, renegotiate or fail to honor our drilling contracts and affected the fair market value of our rig fleet, which in turn has resulted in impairments of our assets. A sustained or further decline in oil and natural gas prices could adversely impact our cash forecast models used to determine whether the carrying value of our long-lived assets exceed our future cash flows, which could result in future impairment to our long-lived assets. A prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could affect our ability to retain skilled rig personnel and affect our ability to access capital to finance and grow our business. There can be no assurances as to the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas and oilfield services industries. Uncertain or negative global economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our results of operations The substantial volatility and extended declines in oil and natural gas prices in recent years in response to a weakened global economic environment have adversely affected our results of operations. In addition, economic 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements conditions have resulted in substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and both access to and terms of available financing. During 2009 through the first half of 2010, many of our customers curtailed their drilling programs, which, in many cases, resulted in a decrease in demand for drilling rigs and a reduction in dayrates and utilization. Additionally, some customers terminated drilling contracts prior to the expiration of their terms. A prolonged period of lower oil and natural gas prices could continue to impact our industry and our business, including our future operating results and the ability to recover our assets, including goodwill, at their stated values. In addition, some of our customers could experience an inability to pay suppliers, including us, in the event they are unable to access the capital markets to fund their business operations. Likewise, our suppliers may be unable to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations. Each of these could adversely affect our operations. As a holding company, we depend on our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. In order to meet our financial needs, we rely exclusively on repayments of interest and principal on intercompany loans that we have made to our operating subsidiaries and income from dividends and other cash flow from our subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that our operating subsidiaries will generate sufficient net income to pay us dividends or sufficient cash flow to make payments of interest and principal to us. In addition, from time to time, our operating subsidiaries may enter into financing arrangements that contractually restrict or prohibit these types of upstream payments. There can also be adverse tax consequences associated with paying dividends. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding As of December 31, 2011, we had long-term debt outstanding of approximately $4.6 billion, including $275.3 million in current maturities, and cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $539.5 million. Our ability to service our debt obligations depends in large part upon the level of cash flows generated by our subsidiaries’ operations, possible dispositions of non-core assets, availability under our unsecured revolving credit facilities and our ability to access the capital markets. As of December 31, 2011, we had $540 million available under revolving credit facilities. We calculate our leverage in relation to capital (i.e., shareholders’ equity) utilizing two commonly used ratios: • Gross funded debt to capital, which is calculated by dividing (x) funded debt by (y) funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities (net of deferred tax assets) plus capital. Funded debt is the sum of (1) short-term borrowings, (2) the current portions of long-term debt and (3) long-term debt; and • Net funded debt to capital, which is calculated by dividing (x) net funded debt by (y) net funded debt plus deferred tax liabilities (net of deferred tax assets) plus capital. Net funded debt is funded debt minus the sum of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. At December 31, 2011, our gross funded debt to capital ratio was 0.43:1 and our net funded debt to capital ratio was 0.40:1. Our access to borrowing capacity could be affected by the recent instability in the global financial markets Our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investor Service and Standard & Poor’s and our historical ability to access those markets as needed. A credit downgrade may impact our future ability to access credit markets, which is important for purposes of both meeting our financial obligations and funding capital requirements to finance and grow our businesses. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We operate in a highly competitive industry with excess drilling capacity, which may adversely affect our results of operations The oilfield services industry is very competitive. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Many drilling, workover and well-servicing rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity and market conditions, which may result in an oversupply of rigs in an area. In many markets where we operate, the number of rigs available for use exceeds the demand for rigs, resulting in price competition. Most drilling and workover contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. The land drilling market generally is more competitive than the offshore drilling market because there are larger numbers of rigs and competitors. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect our results of operations Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling, workover and well-servicing and pressure pumping industries, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of or damage to the wellbore or underground reservoir, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental and natural resources damage and damage to the property of others. Our offshore operations are also subject to the hazards of marine operations including capsizing, grounding, collision, damage from hurricanes and heavy weather or sea conditions and unsound ocean bottom conditions. Our operations are also subject to risks of war, civil disturbances or other political events. Accidents may occur, we may be unable to obtain desired contractual indemnities, and our insurance may prove inadequate in certain cases. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure or inability of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of these risks. Even if available, insurance may be inadequate or insurance premiums or other costs may rise significantly in the future making insurance prohibitively expensive. We expect to continue to face upward pressure in our insurance renewals; our premiums and deductibles may be higher, and some insurance coverage may either be unavailable or more expensive than it has been in the past. Moreover, our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form of a deductible or self-insured retention. We may choose to increase the levels of deductibles (and thus assume a greater degree of risk) from time to time in order to minimize our overall costs. The profitability of our operations could be adversely affected by war, civil disturbance, or political or economic turmoil, fluctuation in currency exchange rates and local import and export controls We derive a significant portion of our business from global markets, including major operations in Canada, South America, Mexico, the Middle East, the Far East, the South Pacific, Russia and Africa. These operations are subject to various risks, including the risk of war, civil disturbances and governmental activities that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contract rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. In some countries, our operations may be subject to the additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange controls. We are subject to various laws and regulations that govern the operation and taxation of our business and the import and export of our equipment from country to country, the imposition, application and interpretation of which can prove to be uncertain. The loss of key executives could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success The successful execution of our strategies central to our future success will depend, in part, on a few of our key executive officers. We have an employment agreement with our Deputy Chairman, President and Chief 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Executive Officer, Anthony G. Petrello, with a term through March 30, 2014. If Mr. Petrello’s employment is terminated in the event of death or disability, the Company will make a cash payment of $50 million; or in the event of termination without cause or in the event of a change in control, the Company will make a cash payment based on a formula of three times the average of his base salary and annual bonus paid during the three fiscal years preceding the termination. We do not carry significant amounts of key man insurance. The loss of Mr. Petrello could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Changes to or noncompliance with governmental regulation or exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations The drilling of oil and gas wells is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Our cost of compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may be substantial. For example, federal law imposes on “responsible parties” a variety of regulations related to the prevention of oil spills, and liability for removal costs and natural resource, real or personal property and certain economic damages arising from such spills. Some of these laws may impose strict liability for these costs and damages without regard to the conduct of the parties. As an owner and operator of onshore and offshore rigs and transportation equipment, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under federal law. In addition, our well-servicing, workover and production services operations routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of materials, some of which are classified as solid or hazardous wastes or hazardous substances. Various state and federal laws govern the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials, the use of underground storage tanks and the use of underground injection wells. We employ personnel responsible for monitoring environmental compliance and arranging for remedial actions that may be required from time to time and also use consultants to advise on and assist with our environmental compliance efforts. Liabilities are recorded when the need for environmental assessments and/or remedial efforts become known or probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. The scope of laws protecting the environment has expanded, particularly outside the United States, and this trend is expected to continue. The violation of environmental laws and regulations can lead to the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial obligations, and in some cases injunctive relief. Violations may also result in liabilities for personal injuries, property and natural resource damage and other costs and claims. We are not always successful in allocating all risks of these environmental liabilities to customers, and it is possible that customers who assume the risks will be financially unable to bear any resulting costs. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, also known as CERCLA or Superfund, and similar state laws and regulations, liability for release of a hazardous substance into the environment can be imposed jointly on the entire group of responsible parties or separately on any one of the responsible parties, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct of any party that contributed to the release. Liability under CERCLA may include costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and damages to natural resources. Changes in environmental laws and regulations may also negatively impact the operations of oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, which in turn could have an adverse effect on us. For example, legislation has been proposed from time to time in the U.S. Congress that would reclassify some oil and natural gas production wastes as hazardous wastes under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act, which would make the reclassified wastes subject to more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. Legislators and regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions where we operate also focus increasingly on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases that may contribute to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere, and other climatic changes. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation designed to reduce emission of greenhouse gases, and some states in which we operate have passed legislation or adopted initiatives, such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in the northeastern United States and the Western Regional Climate Action Initiative, which establish greenhouse gas inventories and/or cap-and-trade programs. Some international initiatives have also been adopted, such as the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Change’s “Kyoto Protocol”, to which the United States is not a party. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has published findings that emissions of greenhouses gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment, paving the way for regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. In October 2009, the EPA enacted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from large sources and suppliers in the United States. In November 2010, the EPA expanded these rules to include offshore oil and natural gas production and onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The enactment of such hazardous waste legislation or future or more stringent regulation of greenhouse gases could dramatically increase operating costs for oil and natural gas companies and could reduce the market for our services by making many wells and/or oilfields uneconomical to operate. The U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, imposes strict liability on responsible parties for removal costs and damages resulting from discharges of oil into U.S. waters. In addition, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act provides the federal government with broad discretion in regulating the leasing of offshore oil and gas production sites. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact the demand for fracturing and other services Superior performs hydraulic fracturing, a process sometimes used in the completion of oil and gas wells whereby water, sand and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. The EPA and certain other federal agencies have announced that they would study the potential adverse impact that fracturing may have on water quality and public health. On August 11, 2011, the U.S. Department of Energy released its report on hydraulic fracturing, recommending the implementation of a variety of measures to reduce the environmental impacts from shale-gas production. These studies could spur initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or under newly established legislation. Legislation has also been introduced in the U.S. Congress and adopted or introduced in some states that would require the disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process. If enacted, the legislation could require fracturing activities to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping requirements and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. Any new laws regulating fracturing activities could cause operational delays or increased costs in exploration and production, which could adversely affect the demand for fracturing services. Future price declines may result in a writedown of our oil and gas asset carrying values Our wholly owned oil and gas investment portfolio and our unconsolidated ownership interest in Remora is reflected in assets held for sale. Historically, our proved and unproved properties have been reviewed for impairment of the carrying value based on the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas properties; any impairment was expensed in that period. Our unconsolidated oil and gas joint ventures, which we account for under the equity method of accounting, utilize the full-cost method of accounting for costs related to oil and natural gas properties. The estimated fair value of our proved reserves generally declines when there is a significant and sustained decline in oil and natural gas prices. Any sustained further decline in oil and natural gas prices or reserve quantities could require further writedown of the value of our proved oil and gas properties or our ownership interests in unconsolidated affiliates if the estimated fair value of these properties falls below their net book value, which could cause other future writedowns of capitalized costs and asset impairments that could adversely affect our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Significant exercises of stock options could adversely affect the market price of our common shares As of February 24, 2012, we had 800,000,000 authorized common shares, of which 318,092,267 shares were outstanding. In addition, 39,129,225 common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to stock option and employee benefit plans. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, whether directly by us or resulting from the exercise of options (and, where applicable, sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act), would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Provisions in our organizational documents and executive contracts may deter a change of control transaction and decrease the likelihood of a shareholder receiving a change of control premium The Board of Directors has the authority to issue a significant number of common shares and up to 25,000,000 preferred shares, as well as to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of the preferred shares, in each case without any vote or action by the holders of our common shares. In addition, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term. Although we have announced plans to declassify the Board, its current structure, as well as its ability to issue preferred shares, may discourage, delay or prevent changes in control of Nabors that are not supported by the Board, thereby preventing some of our shareholders from realizing a premium on their shares. We have an employment agreement with our Deputy Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Anthony G. Petrello. The agreement has a change-in-control provision that could result in a significant cash payment to Mr. Petrello. We may have additional tax liabilities We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous other jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly audited by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than what is reflected in income tax provisions and accruals. An audit or litigation could materially affect our financial position, income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods challenged. It is also possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date. On September 14, 2006, Nabors Drilling International Limited, one of our wholly owned Bermuda subsidiaries (“NDIL”), received a Notice of Assessment from Mexico’s federal tax authorities in connection with the audit of NDIL’s Mexico branch for 2003. The notice proposes to deny depreciation expense deductions relating to drilling rigs operating in Mexico in 2003. The notice also proposes to deny a deduction for payments made to an affiliated company for the procurement of labor services in Mexico. The amount assessed was approximately $19.8 million (including interest and penalties). Nabors and its tax advisors previously concluded that the deductions were appropriate and more recently that the government’s position lacks merit. NDIL’s Mexico branch took similar deductions for depreciation and labor expenses from 2004 to 2008. On June 30, 2009, the government proposed similar assessments against the Mexico branch of another wholly owned Bermuda subsidiary, Nabors Drilling International II Ltd. (“NDIL II”) for 2006. We anticipate that a similar assessment will eventually be proposed against NDIL for 2005 through 2008 and against NDIL II for 2007 to 2010. We believe that the potential assessments will range from $6 million to $26 million per year for the period from 2005 to 2009, and in the aggregate, would be approximately $90 million to $95 million. Although we believe that any assessments related to the 2003 and 2005 to 2010 years lack merit, a reserve has been recorded in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). The 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements statute of limitations for NDIL’s 2004 tax year expired. Accordingly, during the fourth quarter of 2010, we released $7.4 million from our tax reserves, which represented the reserve recorded for that tax year. If these additional assessments were to be made and we ultimately did not prevail, we would be required to recognize additional tax for the amount in excess of the current reserve. Proposed tax legislation could mitigate or eliminate the benefits of our 2002 reorganization as a Bermuda company Various bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress that could reduce or eliminate the tax benefits associated with our reorganization as a Bermuda company. Legislation enacted by the U.S. Congress in 2004 provides that a corporation that reorganized in a foreign jurisdiction on or after March 4, 2003 be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Nabors’ reorganization was completed on June 24, 2002. There have been and we expect that there may continue to be legislation proposed by the U.S. Congress from time to time which, if enacted, could limit or eliminate the tax benefits associated with our reorganization. Because we cannot predict whether legislation will ultimately be adopted, no assurance can be given that the tax benefits associated with our reorganization will ultimately accrue to the benefit of the Company and its shareholders. It is possible that future changes to the tax laws (including tax treaties) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date, as well as future tax savings, resulting from our reorganization. Legal proceedings could affect our financial condition and results of operations We are subject to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time that include employment, tort, intellectual property and other claims, and purported class action and shareholder derivative actions. We are also subject to complaints and allegations from former, current or prospective employees from time to time, alleging violations of employment-related laws. Lawsuits or claims could result in decisions against us that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The profitability of our operations could be adversely affected by turmoil in the global financial markets The changes in general financial and political conditions, including the U.S. government budget, the downgrade by Standard & Poor’s of the credit rating of U.S. government securities and concerns over the European sovereign debt crisis and banking industry has created a great deal of uncertainty in the recovery of the world economy. If global economic uncertainties continue over a prolonged period of time or develop adversely, there could be a material adverse impact on our credit ratings and liquidity and those of our customers and other worldwide business partners. If global oil and gas prices were to decline rapidly, it could lead our customers to curtail their operations or expansion and cause difficulties for us and our customers to forecast future capital expenditures, which in turn could negatively impact the worldwide rig count and our future financial results. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common shares We have not paid any cash dividends on our common shares since 1982 and have no current intention to do so. However, we can give no assurance that we will not reevaluate our position on dividends in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 