ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We operate in a highly regulated environment and changes of or increases in banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, we are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation or in policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, income tax laws and accounting principles could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase our expenses by imposing additional fees or taxes or restrictions on our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to appropriately 8 Table of Contents comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that regard, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was enacted in July 2010. Among other provisions, the new legislation creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to regulate consumer financial products such as credit cards and mortgages, creates a Financial Stability Oversight Council comprised of the heads of other regulatory agencies, will lead to new capital requirements from federal banking agencies, places new limits on electronic debt card interchange fees, and will require the Securities and Exchange Commission and national stock exchanges to adopt significant new corporate governance and executive compensation reforms. The new legislation and regulations are expected to increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance and limit certain sources of revenue. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy practices that they deem to be unsafe or unsound, or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national economic conditions we are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board. We cannot accurately predict the full effects of recent legislation or the various other governmental, regulatory, monetary, and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets and on the Company. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity, and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. We may be adversely impacted by recent volatility in the European financial markets In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these EU “peripheral nations” to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. These conditions impacted financial markets and resulted in high and volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of many EU nations. Certain European nations continue to experience varying degrees of financial stress, and yields on government-issued bonds in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain have risen and remain volatile. Despite assistance packages to Greece, Ireland and Portugal, the creation of a joint EU-IMF European Financial Stability Facility in May 2010, and a recently announced plan to expand financial assistance to Greece, uncertainty over the outcome of the EU governments’ financial support programs and worries about sovereign finances persist. Market concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of European banks and insurers to the EU peripheral nations has resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some European financial institutions. Risks and ongoing concerns about the debt crisis in Europe could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of European financial institutions. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. There can be no assurance that the market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not spread, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize the affected countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. While we have no direct exposure to European financial institutions or sovereign debt, to the extent uncertainty regarding the economic recovery continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by the unprecedented volatility in the financial markets. Dramatic declines in the national housing market in 2008 and 2009, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, and widespread reduction of business activity generally. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate. Similarly, declining real estate values can adversely 9 Table of Contents impact the carrying value of real estate secured loans. The downturn in the economy, the slowdown in the real estate market, and declines in some real estate values had a direct and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in 2008 and 2009. While we experienced some stabilization in the economy in 2010 and 2011, we do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve significantly in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: — We expect to face continued increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the Stabilization Act and Dodd Frank legislation. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. — Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. — We have been required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The operations of our business, including our interaction with customers, are increasingly done via electronic means, and this has increased our risks related to cybersecurity. The Company is exposed to cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. We have observed an increased level of attention focused on cyber-attacks that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks on websites. Cyber-attacks may be carried out by third parties or insiders using techniques that range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security or overwhelm websites to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. The objectives of cyber-attacks vary widely and may include theft of financial assets, intellectual property, or other sensitive information belonging to the Company or our customers. Cyber-attacks may also be directed at disrupting the operations of the Company’s business. While the Company has not incurred any material losses related to cyber-attacks, nor are we aware of any specific or threatened cyber-incidents as of the date of this report, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if we fall victim to successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include remediation costs that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused; increased cybersecurity protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack; litigation; and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. Declines in the residential housing market would have a negative impact on our residential housing market income. The Company earns revenue from the residential housing market in the form of interest income and fees on loans and earnings from RML. A slowdown in the residential sales cycle in our major markets and a constriction in the availability of mortgage financing have negatively impacted real estate sales, which has resulted in customers’ inability to repay loans. In 2012, the Company expects that its revenues from the residential housing market in the form of interest income and fees on loans and earnings from RML will be higher than 2011 because of an increase in residential construction loans through the Company’s efforts to increase market share in this area, offset in part by a decline in refinance activity at RML. However, further declines in these areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition through a decline in interest income and fees. Our loan loss allowance may not be adequate to cover future loan losses, which may adversely affect our earnings. We have established a reserve for probable losses we expect to incur in connection with loans in our credit portfolio. This allowance reflects our estimate of the collectability of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of total loans outstanding. Our determination of the amount of loan loss allowance is highly subjective; although management personnel apply criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance. Accordingly, we cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the loan loss allowance will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If our loan loss allowance proves to be inadequate, we may suffer unexpected charges to income, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, bank regulators frequently monitor banks' loan loss allowances, and if regulators were to determine that the allowance is inadequate, they may require us to increase the allowance, which also would adversely impact our net income and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents We have a significant concentration in real estate lending. The sustained downturn in real estate within our markets has had and is expected to continue to have a negative impact on our results of operations. Approximately 68% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 consisted of loans secured by commercial and residential real estate located in Alaska. In recent years the slowdown in the residential sales cycle in our major markets and a constriction in the availability of mortgage financing have negatively impacted residential real estate sales, which has resulted in customers’ inability to repay loans. During 2008, we experienced a significant increase in non-performing assets relating to our real estate lending, primarily in our residential real estate portfolio. Although non-performing assets decreased from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2011, we will see a further increase in non-performing assets if more borrowers fail to perform according to loan terms and if we take possession of real estate properties. Additionally, if real estate values decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. If any of these effects continue or become more pronounced, loan losses will increase more than we expect and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Further, approximately 49% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 consisted of commercial real estate loans. Nationally, delinquencies in these types of portfolios have increased significantly in recent years. While our investments in these types of loans have not been as adversely impacted as residential construction and land development loans, there can be no assurance that the credit quality in these portfolios will remain stable. Commercial construction and commercial real estate loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship exposes us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a consumer loan. These trends may continue and may result in losses that exceed the estimates that are currently included in our loan loss allowance, which could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Real estate values may continue to decrease leading to additional and greater than anticipated loan charge-offs and valuation write downs on our other real estate owned (“OREO”) properties. Real estate owned by the Bank and not used in the ordinary course of its operations is referred to as “other real estate owned” or “OREO” property. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral for defaulted loans as part of our business. At December 31, 2011, the Bank held $5.2 million of OREO properties, many of which relate to residential construction and land development loans. Increased OREO balances lead to greater expenses as we incur costs to manage and dispose of the properties. Our ability to sell OREO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value in order to quickly liquidate properties. Any decrease in market prices may lead to OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our income statement. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if the results of our evaluations require it. Further write-downs on OREO or an inability to sell OREO properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in market interest rates could adversely impact the Company. Our earnings are impacted by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the demand for new loans, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities, and rates paid on deposits and borrowings. The relationship between the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings is known as the net interest margin. Exposure to interest rate risk is managed by monitoring the repricing frequency of our rate-sensitive assets and rate-sensitive liabilities over any given period. Although we believe the current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates could potentially have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial performance depends on our ability to manage recent and possible future growth. Our financial performance and profitability will depend on our ability to manage recent and possible future growth. Although we believe that we have substantially integrated the business and operations of past acquisitions, there can be no assurance that unforeseen issues relating to the acquisitions will not adversely affect us. Any future acquisitions and continued growth may present operating and other problems that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute our growth strategy or maintain the level of profitability that we have experienced in the past. 11 Table of Contents Our concentration of operations in the Anchorage, Matanuska-Susitna Valley, and Fairbanks, areas of Alaska makes us more sensitive to downturns in those areas. Substantially all of our business is derived from the Anchorage, Matanuska-Susitna Valley, and Fairbanks, areas of Alaska. The majority of our lending has been with Alaska businesses and individuals. At December 31, 2011, approximately 68% of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate and 32% are for general commercial uses, including professional, retail, and small businesses, respectively. Substantially all of these loans are collateralized and repayment is expected from the borrowers’ cash flow or, secondarily, the collateral. Our exposure to credit loss, if any, is the outstanding amount of the loan if the collateral is proved to be of no value. These areas rely primarily upon the natural resources industries, particularly oil production, as well as tourism, government and U.S. military spending for their economic success. Our business is and will remain sensitive to economic factors that relate to these industries and local and regional business conditions. As a result, local or regional economic downturns, or downturns that disproportionately affect one or more of the key industries in regions served by the Company, may have a more pronounced effect upon its business than they might on an institution that is less geographically concentrated. The extent of the future impact of these events on economic and business conditions cannot be predicted; however, prolonged or acute fluctuations could have a material and adverse impact upon our results of operation and financial condition. We conduct substantially all of our operations through Northrim Bank, our banking subsidiary; our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our shares or to repay our indebtedness depends upon liquid assets held by the holding company and the results of operations of our subsidiaries. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid from the Bank. There are legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with, us. Our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our net income depends primarily upon the Bank’s net interest income, which is the income that remains after deducting from total income generated by earning assets the expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets (primarily interest paid on deposits). The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. All of those factors affect the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to the Company. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Bank can pay to us without regulatory approval. The Bank may not pay cash dividends if that payment could reduce the amount of its capital below that necessary to meet the “adequately capitalized” level in accordance with regulatory capital requirements. It is also possible that, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, regulatory authorities could conclude that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice and impose restrictions or prohibit such payments. It is the policy of the FRB that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. The policy provides that bank holding companies should not maintain a level of cash dividends that undermines a bank holding company’s ability to serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. The financial services business is intensely competitive and our success will depend on our ability to compete effectively. The financial services business in our market areas is highly competitive. It is becoming increasingly competitive due to changes in regulation, technological advances, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We face competition both in attracting deposits and in originating loans. We compete for loans principally through the pricing of interest rates and loan fees and the efficiency and quality of services. Increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services industries may reduce our market share or cause the prices charged for our services to fall. Improvements in technology, communications, and the internet have intensified competition. As a result, our competitive position could be weakened, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain key employees and personnel. We will be dependent for the foreseeable future on the services of R. Marc Langland, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; Joseph M. Beedle, our President and Chief Executive Officer of Northrim Bank; Christopher N. Knudson, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Joseph M. Schierhorn, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Steven L. Hartung, our Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer. While we maintain keyman life insurance on the lives of Messrs. Langland, Beedle, Knudson, and Schierhorn in the amounts of $2.5 million, $2 million, $2.1 million, and $1 million, respectively, we may not be able to timely replace Mr. Langland, Mr. Beedle, Mr. Knudson, or Mr. Schierhorn with a person of comparable ability and experience should the need to do so arise, 12 Table of Contents causing losses in excess of the insurance proceeds. Currently, we do not maintain keyman life insurance on the life of Mr. Hartung. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. A failure of a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of our borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the Allowance, which we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance, and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 