D. Risk Factors. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading prices of our shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In addition to the risks listed below, risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and affect your investment. Our business may be materially affected by financial markets, economic conditions and market fluctuations in Japan and elsewhere around the world The global financial crisis that originated with the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. (“Lehman Brothers”) in 2008, affected not only the global securities market but also financial services firms as participants, and also affected economic activity as a whole, especially in developed countries, including Japan. Also in 2011, financial problems in the U.S. and the worsening of financial issues in the peripheral countries of the Eurozone, including Greece, adversely influenced major global financial markets. Since 2013, the prospects of global economy have remained uncertain due to various actions including monetary tightening in China and tapering in the United States. Our business and revenues may be affected by any adverse changes in the Japanese and global economic environments and financial markets. In addition and as described later, not only purely economic factors but also future wars, acts of terrorism, economic or political sanctions, pandemics, forecast of geopolitical risks and geopolitical events which have actually occurred, natural disasters or other similar events could have an effect on financial markets and economies of each country. If any adverse events including those discussed above were to occur, a market or economic downturn may extend for a long period of time, which could adversely affect our business and can result in substantial losses. Even in the absence of a prolonged market or economic downturn, changes relating to market volatility or governmental fiscal and monetary policy changes in Japan and any country or region where we conduct business, including the actions taken by the Bank of Japan or any other international central banking authorities and other changes in the environment may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The following are certain risks related to the financial markets and economic conditions for our specific businesses. Our brokerage and asset management revenues may decline A market downturn could result in a decline in the revenues generated by our brokerage business because of a decline in the volume and value of securities that we broker for our clients. Also, within our asset management business, in most cases, we charge fees for managing our clients’ portfolios that are based on the value of their portfolios. A market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios may increase the amount of withdrawals or reduce the amount of new investments in these portfolios, and would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management business. Our investment banking revenues may decline Changes in financial or economic conditions would likely affect the number and size of transactions for which we provide securities underwriting, financial advisory and other investment banking services. Our investment banking revenues, which include fees from these services, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would therefore decrease if there are financial and market changes unfavorable to our investment banking business and our clients. For example, due in part to the slowdown in 5 Table of Contents financing activities resulting primarily from the worsened and prolonged impact of the European sovereign debt crisis in 2011, our Investment Banking net revenue for the year ended March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2013 decreased by 15.9% and 15.0% from the previous year respectively. Our electronic trading business revenues may decline Electronic trading is essential for our business in order to execute trades faster with fewer resources. Utilizing these systems allows us to provide an efficient execution platform and on-line content and tools to our clients via exchanges or other automated trading facilities. Revenue from our electronic trading, which includes trading commissions and bid-offer spreads from these services, are directly correlated with the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would therefore decrease if there are financial market or economic changes that would cause our clients to trade less frequently or in a smaller amounts. In addition, the use of electronic trading has increased across capital markets products and has put pressure on trading commissions and bid-offer spreads in our industry due to the increased competition of our electronic trading business. Although trade volumes may increase due to the availability of electronic trading, this may not be sufficient to offset margin erosion in our execution business, leading to a potential decline in revenue generated from this business. We continue to invest in developing technologies to provide an efficient trading platform; however, we may fail to maximize returns on these investments due to this increased pressure on lowering margins. We may incur significant losses from our trading and investment activities We maintain large trading and investment positions in fixed income, equity and other markets, both for proprietary purposes and for the purpose of facilitating our clients’ trades. Our positions consist of various types of assets, including derivatives transactions with equity, interest rate, currency, credit and other underlyings, as well as loans and real estate. Fluctuations in the markets where these assets are traded can adversely affect the value of these assets. To the extent that we own assets, or have long positions, a market downturn could result in losses if the value of these long positions decreases. Furthermore, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own, or have short positions, an upturn in the prices of the assets could expose us to potentially significant losses. Although we seek to mitigate these position risks with a variety of hedging techniques, these market movements could result in losses. We can incur losses if the financial system is overly stressed and the markets move in a way we have not anticipated. Our businesses have been and may continue to be affected by changes in market volatility levels. Certain of our trading businesses such as trading and arbitrage opportunities depend on market volatility. Lower volatility may lead to a decrease in business opportunities which may affect the results of these businesses. On the other hand, higher volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) and may expose us to higher risks in connection with our market-making and proprietary businesses or cause us to reduce outstanding positions or size of these businesses in order to avoid increasing our VaR. Furthermore, we commit capital to take relatively large positions for underwriting or warehousing assets to facilitate certain capital market transactions. Also, we structure and take positions in pilot funds for developing financial investment products and invest seed money to set up and support financial investment products. We may incur significant losses from these positions in the event of significant market fluctuations. In addition, if we are the party providing collateral in a transaction, significant declines in the value of the collateral or a requirement to provide additional collateral due to a decline in our creditworthiness (by way of a lowered credit rating or otherwise) can increase our costs and reduce our profitability. On the other hand, if we are the party receiving collateral from our clients and counterparties, such declines may also affect on our profitability by changing the business. Assuming a one-notch and two-notch downgrade of our credit ratings on 6 Table of Contents March 31, 2014, absent other changes, we estimate that the aggregate fair value of assets that we would be required to post as additional collateral in connection with our derivative contracts would have been approximately ¥33.2 billion and ¥122.8 billion, respectively. Holding large and concentrated positions of securities and other assets may expose us to large losses Holding large and concentrated positions of securities can expose us to large losses in our businesses such as market-making, block trading, underwriting, asset securitization, acquiring newly-issued convertible bonds through third-party allotment or through providing business solutions to meet client’s needs. We have committed substantial amounts of capital to these businesses. This often requires us to take large positions in the securities of a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. We generally have higher exposure to those issuers engaged in financial services businesses, including commercial banks, broker-dealers, clearing houses, exchanges and investment companies. There may also be cases where we hold relatively large amounts of securities by issuers in particular countries or regions due to the business we conduct with our clients or our counterparties. In addition, we may incur substantial losses due to market fluctuations on asset-backed securities such as residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. Extended market declines can reduce liquidity and lead to material losses Extended market declines can reduce the level of market activity and the liquidity of the assets traded in the market in which we operate, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets which we hold. Also, in case a market fails in pricing such assets, it will be difficult to estimate their value. If we cannot properly close out or hedge our associated positions in a timely manner or in full, particularly with respect to Over-The-Counter (“OTC”) derivatives, we may incur substantial losses. Further, if the liquidity of a market significantly decreases and the market price of own position is not formed, it could lead to unanticipated losses. Our hedging strategies may not prevent losses We use a variety of financial instruments and strategies to hedge our exposure to various types of risk. If our hedging strategies are not effective, we may incur losses. We base many of our hedging strategies on historical trading patterns and correlations. For example, if we hold an asset, we may hedge this position by taking another asset which has, historically, moved in a direction that would offset a change in value of the former asset. However, historical trading patterns and correlations may not continue, as seen in the case of past financial crises, and these hedging strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure because we are exposed to all types of risk in a variety of market environments. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in managing market risk Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Although some of our methods of managing risk are based upon observed historical behavior of market data, the movement of each data in future financial market may not be the same as which was observed in the past. As a result, we may suffer large losses through unexpected future risk exposures. Other risk management methods that we use also rely on our evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters, which is publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated, and we may be unable to properly assess our risks, and thereby suffer large losses. Furthermore, certain factors, such as market volatility, may render our risk evaluation model unsuitable for a new market environment. In such event, we may become unable to evaluate or otherwise manage our risks adequately. Market risk may increase other risks that we face In addition to the potentially adverse effects on our businesses described above, market risk could exacerbate other risks that we face. For example, the risks inherent in financial instruments developed through financial engineering and innovation may be increased by market risk. 7 Table of Contents Also, if we incur substantial trading losses caused by our exposure to market risk, our need for liquidity could rise sharply while our access to cash may be impaired as a result of market perception of our credit risk. Furthermore, in a market downturn, our clients and counterparties could incur substantial losses of their own, thereby weakening their financial condition and, as a result, increasing our credit risk exposure to them. We may have to recognize impairment charges with regard to the amount of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheets We have purchased all or a part of the equity interests in, or operations from, certain other companies in order to pursue our business expansion, and expect to continue to do so when and as we deem appropriate. We account for certain of those and similar purchases and acquisitions in conformity with U.S. GAAP as a business combination by allocating our acquisition costs to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and recording the remaining amount as goodwill. We also possess tangible and intangible assets besides those stated above. We may have to recognize impairment charges, as well as profits and losses along associated with subsequent transactions, with regard to the amount of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets and if recorded, they may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition Liquidity, or having ready access to cash, is essential to our businesses. In addition to maintaining a readily available cash position, we seek to secure ample liquidity through repurchase and securities lending transactions, access to long-term debt, issuance of mid/long-term debt, diversification of our short-term funding sources such as commercial paper, and by holding a portfolio of highly liquid assets. We bear the risk that we may lose liquidity under certain circumstances, including the following: We may be unable to access the debt capital markets We depend on continuous access to the short-term credit markets and the debt capital markets to finance our day-to-day operations. An inability to raise money in the long-term or short-term debt markets, or to engage in repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. For example, lenders could refuse to extend the credit necessary for us to conduct our business based on their assessment of our long-term or short-term financial prospects if: • we incur large trading losses, • the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn, or • regulatory authorities take significant action against us. In addition to the above, our ability to borrow in the debt markets could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as increases in banks’ nonperforming loans which reduce their lending capacity, a severe disruption of the financial and credit markets which, among others, can lead to widening credit spreads and thereby increase our borrowing costs, or negative views about the general prospects for the investment banking, brokerage or financial services industries generally. We may be unable to access the short-term debt markets We issue commercial paper and short-term debt instruments as a source of unsecured short-term funding of our operations. Our liquidity depends largely on our ability to refinance these borrowings on a continuous basis. Investors who hold our outstanding commercial paper and other short-term debt instruments have no obligation to provide refinancing when the outstanding instruments mature. We may be unable to obtain short-term financing from banks to make up any shortfall. 8 Table of Contents We may be unable to sell assets If we are unable to borrow in the debt capital markets or if our cash balances decline significantly, we will need to liquidate our assets or take other actions in order to meet our maturing liabilities. In volatile or uncertain market environments, overall market liquidity may decline. In a time of reduced market liquidity, we may be unable to sell some of our assets, which may adversely affect our liquidity, or we may have to sell at depressed prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to sell may be impaired by other market participants seeking to sell similar assets into the market at the same time. Lowering of our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. Rating agencies may reduce or withdraw their ratings or place us on “credit watch” with negative implications. For example, on March 15, 2012, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded our senior debt rating from Baa2 to Baa3. Although the impact of this downgrade was limited, future downgrades could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. This, in turn, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our liquidity. Further, other factors which are not specific to us may increase our funding costs, such as negative market perception of Japan’s fiscal soundness. Event risk may cause losses in our trading and investment assets as well as market and liquidity risk Event risk refers to potential losses in value we may suffer through unpredictable events that cause large unexpected market price movements. These include not only significant events such as the terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001, U.S. subprime issues since 2007, the global financial and credit crisis in the autumn of 2008, the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, fiscal problems in the U.S. and European countries which became apparent starting the same year and the political crisis in Ukraine which began in late 2013, but also more specifically the following types of events that could cause losses in our trading and investment assets: • sudden and significant reductions in credit ratings with regard to financial instruments held by our trading and investment businesses by major rating agencies, • sudden changes in trading, tax, accounting, regulatory requirements laws and other related rules which may make our trading strategy obsolete, less competitive or not workable, or • an unexpected failure in a corporate transaction in which we participate resulting in our not receiving the consideration we should have received, as well as bankruptcy, deliberate acts of fraud, and administrative penalty with respect to the issuers of our trading and investment assets. We may be exposed to losses when third parties that are indebted to us do not perform their obligations Our counterparties are from time to time indebted to us as a result of transactions or contracts, including loans, commitments to lend, other contingent liabilities and derivatives transactions. We may incur material losses when our counterparties default on their obligations to us due to their filing for bankruptcy, deterioration in their creditworthiness, lack of liquidity, operational failure, an economic or political event, or other reasons. Credit risk may also arise from: • holding securities issued by third parties, or • the execution of securities, futures, currency or derivative transactions that fail to settle at the required time due to nondelivery by the counterparty, such as monoline insurers (financial guarantors) which are counterparties in credit default swaps or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial infrastructure. 9 Table of Contents Issues related to third party credit risk may include the following: Defaults by a large financial institution could adversely affect the financial markets generally and us specifically The commercial soundness of many financial institutions is closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships among the institutions. As a result, concern about the creditworthiness or a default by, a certain financial institution could lead to significant liquidity problems or losses in, or defaults by, other financial institutions. This may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis. Actual defaults, increases in perceived default risk and other similar events could arise in the future and could have an adverse effect on the financial markets and on us. Our operations may be adversely affected if major financial institutions, Japanese or otherwise, fail or experience severe liquidity or solvency problems. There can be no assurance as to the accuracy of the information about, or the sufficiency of the collateral we use in managing, our credit risk We regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients or counterparties and to specific countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns. Default risk, however, may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, such as account-rigging and fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the risks of a counterparty. In addition, in cases where we have extended credit against collateral, we may fall into a deficiency in value in the collateral if sudden declines in market values reduce the value of our collateral. Our clients and counterparties may be unable to perform their obligations to us as a result of political or economic conditions Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk, as well as market risk. Political or economic pressures in a country or region, including those arising from local market disruptions or currency crises, may adversely affect the ability of clients or counterparties located in that country or region to obtain credit or foreign exchange, and therefore to perform their obligations owed to us. The financial services industry faces intense competition Our businesses are intensely competitive, and are expected to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution capability, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We have experienced intense price competition, particularly in brokerage, investment banking and other businesses. Competition with commercial banks, commercial bank-owned securities subsidiaries and non-Japanese firms in the Japanese market is increasing Since the late 1990s, the financial services sector in Japan has been undergoing deregulation. In accordance with the amendments to the Securities and Exchange Law of Japan (which has been renamed as the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan (“FIEA”) since September 30, 2007), effective from December 1, 2004, banks and certain other financial institutions became able to enter into the securities brokerage business. In addition, in accordance with the amendments to the FIEA effective from June 1, 2009, firewalls between commercial banks and securities firms were deregulated. Therefore, as our competitors will be able to cooperate more closely with their affiliated commercial banks, banks and other types of financial services firms can compete with us to a greater degree than they could before deregulation in the areas of financing and investment trusts. Among others, securities subsidiaries of commercial banks and non-Japanese firms have been affecting our market shares in the sales and trading, investment banking and retail businesses. 10 Table of Contents Increased consolidation, business alliance and cooperation in the financial services industry mean increased competition for us There has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of large commercial banks and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have consolidated with other financial institutions. Recently, these other securities companies and commercial banks develop their business linkage and have the ability to offer a wide range of products, including loans, deposit-taking, insurance, brokerage, asset management and investment banking services within their group, which may enhance their competitive position compared with us. They also have the ability to supplement their investment banking and brokerage businesses with commercial banking and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share. In addition, alliances regardless of the existing groups are seen. These financial groups will further enhance their synergies between commercial banks and securities companies, and eventually improve their profitability. Our market shares may decrease if these large consolidated firms expand their businesses. Our global business strategies may not result in the anticipated outcome due to competition with other financial services firms in international markets and the failure to realize the full benefit of management resource reallocation We continue to believe there are significant opportunities in the international markets, but there is also significant competition associated with such opportunities. In order to take advantage of these opportunities, we will have to compete successfully with financial services firms based in important non-Japanese markets, including the U.S., Europe and Asia. Under such competitive environment, as a means to bolster our international operations, we acquired certain Lehman Brothers operations in Europe, the Middle East and Asia in 2008 and we have invested significant management resources to rebuild and expand our operations in these regions and the U.S. After the acquisition, however, the global economy started to slow down, and both regulation and supervision have tightened around the world. In light of this challenging business environment, we have endeavored to reallocate our management resources to optimize our global operations and thereby improve our profitability. However, failure to realize the full benefits of these efforts may adversely affect our global businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to substantial legal, regulatory and reputational risks Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material financial effect on us or cause reputational harm to us, which in turn could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Also, material changes in regulations applicable to us or to our market could adversely affect our business. Our exposure to legal liability is significant We face significant legal risks in our businesses. These risks include liability under securities or other laws in connection with securities underwriting and offering transactions, liability arising from the purchase or sale of any securities or other financial products, disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements or the validity of contracts for our transactions, and legal claims concerning our other businesses. During a prolonged market downturn or upon the occurrence of an event that adversely affects the market, we would expect claims against us to increase. We may also face significant litigation. The cost of defending such litigation may be substantial and our involvement in litigation may damage our reputation. In addition, even legal transactions might be subject to adverse public reaction according to the particular details of such transactions. These risks may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. 11 Table of Contents Extensive regulation of our businesses limits our activities and may subject us to significant penalties and losses The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in Japan and in virtually all other jurisdictions in which we operate, and such governmental and regulatory scrutiny may increase as our operations expand or as laws change. These regulations are broadly designed to ensure the stability of financial systems and the integrity of the financial markets and financial institutions, and to protect clients and other third parties who deal with us, and often limit our activities, through net capital, client protection and market conduct requirements. Although we have policies in place to prevent violations of such laws and regulations, we may not always be able to prevent violations, and we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, ordered to improve our internal governance procedures or be subject to revocation of our license to conduct business. Our reputation could also suffer from the adverse publicity that any administrative or judicial sanction against us may create. As a result of any such sanction, we may lose business opportunities for a period of time, even after the sanction is lifted, if and to the extent that our clients, especially public institutions, decide not to engage us for their financial transactions. Tightening of regulations applicable to the financial system and financial industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations If regulations that apply to our businesses are introduced, modified or removed, we could be adversely affected directly or through resulting changes in market conditions. The impact of such developments could make it economically unreasonable for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses, or could cause us to incur significant costs to adjust to such changes. In particular, various reforms to financial regulatory frameworks, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) in the U.S. and various proposals to strengthen financial regulation in the European Union and the United Kingdom (the “U.K.”), have been put in place. The exact details of the implementation of these proposals and its impact on us will depend on the final regulations as they become ultimately adopted by various governmental agencies and oversight boards. For more information about such regulations, see “Regulation” under Item 4.B. of this annual report. Changes in regulations relating to accounting standards, regulatory capital adequacy ratios, liquidity ratios and leverage ratios applicable to us could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in March 2012, the FSA published the revised Capital Adequacy Notice on Final Designated Parent Company in order to respond to the Basel III measures announced by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel Committee”), and beginning on March 31, 2013, the amended Notice has been gradually phased in. The full implementation of such new measures may decrease our capital adequacy ratio calculated pursuant to such new measures below the levels at the end of March 2013. In addition to the Basel III measures, implementation of new regulations or strengthening of existing regulations have been determined or are under consideration by international organizations such as the G-20, Financial Stability Board (“FSB”), International Organization of Securities Commissions (“IOSCO”) and Basel Committee, or governmental and self-regulatory organizations in Japan and in virtually all other jurisdictions in which we operate. These changes in regulations, if they are applied to us, may require us to liquidate financial instruments and other assets, raise additional capital or otherwise restrict our business activities in a manner that could increase our funding costs or could otherwise adversely affect our operating or financing activities or the interests of our shareholders. Furthermore, the FSB and the Basel Committee have announced that they will annually update the list of global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”) identified by financial regulators and additional regulatory capital requirements imposed on those G-SIBs. Additionally, G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors requested the FSB and the Basel Committee to expand the G-SIB framework to domestic systemically important banks (“D-SIBs”), and in October 2012, the Basel Committee developed and published a set of principles on the assessment methodology and higher loss absorbency requirements for D-SIBs. In 12 Table of Contents addition, the FSB and IOSCO have published assessment methodologies for identifying Non-bank Non-insurer Global Systemically Important Financial Institutions (“NBNI G-SIFIs”), for public consultation. The costs and impact on us as described above may further increase if we are identified as a G-SIB, a D-SIB or a NBNI G-SIFI in the future. Deferred tax assets may be impacted due to a change in business condition or in laws and regulations, resulting in an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We recognize deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets as a possible benefit of tax relief in the future. If we experience or foresee a deteriorating business condition, a tax reform (such as a reduction of corporate tax rate) or a change in accounting standards in the future, we may reduce the deferred tax assets then recognized in our consolidated balance sheets. As a result, it could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Misconduct or fraud by an employee, director or officer, or any third party, could occur, and our reputation in the market and our relationships with clients could be harmed We face the risk that misconduct by an employee, director or officer, or any third party, could occur which may adversely affect our business. Misconduct by an employee, director or officer can include, for example, entering into transactions in excess of authorized limits, acceptance of risks that exceed our limits, or concealment of unauthorized or unsuccessful activities. The misconduct could also involve the improper use or disclosure of our or our clients’ confidential information, such as insider trading, the disclosure of material non-public information and the recommendation of trades based on material non-public information, which could result in regulatory sanctions, legal liability and serious reputational or financial damage to us. In August 2012, Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. (“NSC”), the Company’s subsidiary, received a business improvement order from the FSA with respect to flaws recognized in connection with the management of entity-related information for public stock offerings. In response to the order, NSC, as of December 2013, has implemented and completed a series of improvement measures and is working to enhance and strengthen its information management structure to prevent similar incidents from occurring in the future. Although we have precautions in place to detect and prevent any such misconduct, the measures we implement may not be effective in all cases, and we may not always be able to detect or deter misconduct by an employee, director or officer. If any administrative or judicial sanction is issued against us as a result of such misconduct, we may lose business opportunities for a period of time, even after the sanction is lifted, if and to the extent that our clients, especially public institutions, decide not to engage us for their financial transactions. Third parties may also engage in fraudulent activities, including devising a fraudulent scheme to induce our investment, loans, guarantee or any other form of financial commitment, both direct and indirect. Because of the broad range of businesses that we engage in and the large number of third parties with whom we deal in our day-to-day business operations, such fraud or any other misconduct may be difficult to prevent or detect. We may not be able to recover the financial losses caused by such activities and our reputation may also be damaged by such activities. A failure to identify and address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses We are a global financial institution providing a wide range of products and services to a diverse group of clients, including individuals, corporations, other financial institutions and governmental institutions. As such, we face potential conflicts of interest in the ordinary course of our business. Conflicts of interests can occur when our services to a particular client conflict or compete, or are perceived to conflict or compete, with our own interests. In addition, where non-public information is not appropriately restricted or shared within the firm, with 13 Table of Contents regard to the many transactions within the Nomura Group, conflicts of interest can also occur where a group company transaction and/or a transaction with another client conflicts or competes with, or is perceived to conflict or compete with, a transaction with a particular client. While we have extensive internal procedures and controls designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, a failure, or a perceived failure, to identify, disclose and appropriately address conflicts could adversely affect our reputation and the willingness of current or potential clients to do business with us. In addition, conflicts of interest could give rise to regulatory actions or litigation. Our business is subject to various operational risks Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems or from external events. It excludes strategic risk (the risk of loss as a result of poor strategic business decisions), but includes the risk of breach of legal and regulatory requirements, and the risk of damage to Nomura’s reputation if caused by an operational risk. Types of operational risk may include the following, each of which could result in financial losses, disruption in our business, litigation from third parties, regulatory/supervisory actions, restrictions or penalties, and/or damage to our reputation: • failure to execute, confirm or settle securities transactions, • failure by our officers or employees to perform proper administrative activities prescribed in our regular procedures, such as placing erroneous orders to securities exchanges, • the destruction of or damage to our facilities or systems, or other impairment of our ability to conduct business, arising from the impacts of disasters or acts of terrorism which are beyond our anticipation and the scope of our contingency plan, • the disruption of our business due to pandemic diseases or illnesses or • suspension or malfunction of internal or third party systems, or unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and cyber-attacks affecting such systems. Our businesses rely on the secure processing, storage, transmission and reception of confidential and proprietary information in our computer systems. Although we continue to monitor and update our security system, we recognize the increasing risk from the continuously evolving nature of cyber threats. As cyber security threats become more sophisticated, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our systems, and if any of our protective measures are not adequate, it is possible that such attacks may lead to significant breaches in the future. Unauthorized disclosure of personal information held by us may adversely affect our business We keep and manage personal information obtained from clients in connection with our business. In recent years, there have been many reported cases of personal information and records in the possession of corporations and institutions being improperly accessed or disclosed. Although we exercise care in protecting the confidentiality of personal information and take steps to safeguard such information in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, if any material unauthorized disclosure of personal information does occur, our business could be adversely affected in a number of ways. For example, we could be subject to complaints and lawsuits for damages from clients if they are adversely affected as a result of the release of their personal information. In addition, we could incur additional expenses associated with changing our security systems, either voluntarily or in response to administrative guidance or other regulatory initiatives, or in connection with public relations campaigns designed to prevent or mitigate damage to our corporate or brand image or reputation. Any damage to our reputation caused by such unauthorized disclosure could lead to a decline in new clients and/or a loss of existing clients, as well as to increased costs and expenses in dealing with any such problems. 14 Table of Contents The Company is a holding company and depends on payments from subsidiaries The Company heavily depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from subsidiaries to make payments on the Company’s obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions, such as those under the Companies Act, may limit the Company’s ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from the Company’s subsidiaries. In particular, many of the Company’s subsidiaries, including the Company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations, including regulatory capital requirements, that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. For example, Nomura Securities Co., Ltd., Nomura Securities International, Inc., Nomura International plc and Nomura International (Hong Kong) Limited, our main broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to regulatory capital requirements that could limit the transfer of funds to the Company. These laws and regulations may hinder the Company’s ability to access funds needed to make payments on the Company’s obligations. We may not be able to realize gains we expect, and may even suffer losses, on our private equity investments We engage in private equity businesses in and outside of Japan through certain consolidated subsidiaries. A decline in the fair values of our investment positions, which could arise from deteriorating business performance of investee companies or any deterioration in the market conditions of these sectors, may cause material losses to us. Further, our inability to dispose of our private equity investments at the level and time we may wish could have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to realize gains we expect, and may even suffer losses, on our investments in equity securities and non-trading debt securities We hold substantial investments in equity securities and non-trading debt securities. Under U.S. GAAP, depending on market conditions, we may recognize significant unrealized gains or losses on our investments in equity securities and debt securities, which would have a substantial impact on our consolidated statements of income. Depending on the conditions of the markets, we may not be able to dispose of these equity securities and debt securities when we would like to do so, as quickly as we may wish or at the desired values. Equity investments in affiliates and other investees accounted for under the equity method in our consolidated financial statements may decline significantly over a period of time and result in us incurring an impairment loss We have affiliates and investees accounted for under the equity method in our consolidated financial statements and whose shares are publicly traded. Under U.S. GAAP, if there is a decline in the fair value, i.e., the market price, of the shares we hold in such affiliates over a period of time, and we determine that the decline is other-than-temporary, then we record an impairment loss for the applicable fiscal period. We may face an outflow of clients’ assets due to losses of cash reserve funds or bonds we offered We offer many types of products to meet various needs of our clients with different risk profiles. Cash reserve funds, such as money management funds and money reserve funds are categorized as low-risk products. Such cash reserve funds may fall below par value as a result of losses caused by the rise of interest rates or the withdrawals or defaults on bonds contained in the portfolio. In addition, bonds that we offer may default or experience delays in their obligation to pay interest and/or principal. Such losses in the products we offer may result in the loss of client confidence and lead to an outflow of client assets from our custody. Because of daily price range limitations under Japanese stock exchange rules, you may not be able to sell your shares of the Company’s common stock at a particular price on any particular trading day, or at all Stock prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges are order-driven markets without specialists or market makers to guide price 15 Table of Contents formation. For the purpose of protecting investors from excessive volatility, these exchanges set daily upward and downward price fluctuation limits for each stock, based on the previous day’s closing price. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his or her shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. Under Japan’s unit share system, holders of the Company’s shares constituting less than one unit are subject to transfer, voting and other restrictions The Company’s Articles of Incorporation, as permitted under the Companies Act, provide that 100 shares of the Company’s stock constitute one “unit.” The Companies Act imposes significant restrictions and limitations on holdings of shares that constitute less than a whole unit. Holders of shares constituting less than one unit do not have the right to vote or any other rights relating to voting. Under the unit share system, any holders of shares constituting less than a unit may at any time request the Company to purchase their shares. Also, holders of shares constituting less than a unit may request the Company to sell them such number of shares that the Company may have as may be necessary to raise such holder’s share ownership to a whole unit. Shares constituting less than a unit are transferable under the Companies Act, but may not be traded on any Japanese stock exchange. As a holder of ADSs, you will have fewer rights than a shareholder has and you will have to act through the depositary to exercise these rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining the company’s accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to holders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agent, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying your ADSs as instructed by you and will pay you the dividends and distributions collected from the Company. However, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine the Company’s accounting books or records or exercise appraisal rights except through the depositary. Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be more limited than under the laws of other jurisdictions The Companies Act and the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Regulations of the Board of Directors govern the Company’s corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and executive officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ rights may be different from those that would apply to a non-Japanese company. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of other jurisdictions, including jurisdictions within the U.S. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in another jurisdiction. The Company’s shareholders of record on a record date may not receive the dividend they anticipate The customary dividend payout practice of publicly listed companies in Japan may significantly differ from that widely followed or otherwise deemed necessary or fair in foreign markets. The Company’s dividend payout practice is no exception. The Company ultimately determines whether the Company will make any dividend payment to shareholders of record as of a record date and such determination is made only after such record date. For the foregoing reasons, the Company’s shareholders of record as of a record date may not receive the dividends they anticipate. Furthermore, the Company does not announce any dividend forecasts. 16 Table of Contents It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon the Company or the Company’s directors or executive officers, or to enforce against the Company or those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. The Company is a limited liability, joint-stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Most of the Company’s directors and executive officers reside in Japan. Many of the Company’s assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the U.S. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon the Company or these persons or to enforce against the Company or these persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. The Company believes that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of U.S. court judgments, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the U.S. Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements This annual report contains forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about our business, our industry and capital markets around the world. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may”, “will”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan” or similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, identify strategies, contain projections of our results of operations or financial condition, or state other forward-looking information. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance, achievements or financial position to differ materially from any future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by any forward-looking statement contained in this annual report. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors are set forth in this Item 3.D and elsewhere in this annual report. Item 