Risk Factors Risks Relating to our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business, and pay interest of and principal on our indebtedness At December 31, 2005, Grupo TMM’s total debt amounted to $582.7 million, not including previously paid discounts and debt issuance costs of $22.4 million, and including $35.5 million of short-term debt, which includes $2.0 million of interest, and $546.2 million of long-term debt. On January 17, 2006, the Company repurchased $331 million aggregate principal amount and $16 million of accrued and unpaid interest on our 2007 Notes. At March 31, 2006, we had $300.0 million total indebtedness, not including previously paid discounts and debt issuance costs of $5.2 million, and including $25.7 million of short-term debt, which includes $3.4 million of interest, and $271.1 million of long-term debt. We are a highly leveraged company and this level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • limiting cash flow available for capital expenditures, acquisitions, working capital and other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing debt; • increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in economic or industry conditions; • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because future borrowings may be at interest rates that are higher than current rates, which could result in higher interest expenses; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, competitive and other changes in our business; 8 Table of Contents • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and greater operating and financing flexibility than we do; • limiting our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long term best interest as a result of restrictive covenants contained in the Indenture governing the 2007 Notes; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional money to fund our working capital and capital expenditures or to refinance our existing indebtedness, or to enable us to fund the acquisitions contemplated in our business plan. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon future operating performance, including the ability to increase revenues significantly and control expenses. Future operating performance depends upon various factors, including prevailing economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors that are beyond our control. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness we may default under the Indenture. If we default under the Indenture, the trustee could then foreclose against any collateral securing the payment of 2007 Notes. Substantially all of our assets have been pledged to secure our obligations under the Indenture. Grupo TMM is primarily a holding company and depends upon funds received from its operating subsidiaries to make payments on its indebtedness Grupo TMM is primarily a holding company and conducts the majority of its operations, and holds a substantial portion of its operating assets, through numerous direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a result, Grupo TMM relies on income from dividends and fees related to administrative services provided to its operating subsidiaries for its operating income, including the funds necessary to service its indebtedness. In addition, we have pledged the stock of certain of our subsidiaries to secure the repayment of the 2007 Notes. Under Mexican law, profits of Grupo TMM’s subsidiaries may only be distributed upon approval by such subsidiaries’ shareholders, and no profits may be distributed by its subsidiaries to Grupo TMM until all losses incurred in prior fiscal years have been offset against any sub-account of Grupo TMM’s capital or net worth account. In addition, at least 5% of profits must be separated to create a reserve (fondo de reserva) until such reserve is equal to 20% of the aggregate value of such subsidiary’s capital stock (as calculated based on the actual nominal subscription price received by such subsidiary for all issued shares that are outstanding at the time). There is no restriction under Mexican law upon Grupo TMM’s subsidiaries remitting funds to it in the form of loans or advances in the ordinary course of business, except to the extent that such loans or advances would result in the insolvency of its subsidiaries, or for its subsidiaries to pay to it fees or other amounts for services. In addition, Grupo TMM does not own 100% of all of its subsidiaries and, to the extent that Grupo TMM relies on dividends or other distributions from subsidiaries that it does not wholly own, Grupo TMM will only be entitled to a pro rata share of the dividends or other distributions provided by such subsidiaries. Restrictive covenants in our financing agreements may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies The indenture governing our 2007 Notes and agreements for our ship financings contain a number of restrictive covenants and any additional financing arrangements we enter into may contain additional restrictive covenants. These covenants restrict or prohibit many actions, including our ability, or that of our subsidiaries, to, among others: • incur additional indebtedness; • create or suffer to exist liens; • make prepayments of particular indebtedness; • pay dividends; • make investments; 9 Table of Contents • engage in transactions with shareholders and affiliates; • use assets as security in other transactions; • issue guarantees; • create any unrestricted subsidiary; • sell assets; and • engage in certain mergers and consolidations or in sale-leaseback transactions. If we fail to comply with these and other restrictive covenants, our obligation to repay our indebtedness may be accelerated. If we cannot pay the amounts due on the 2007 Notes, the trustee under the indenture could foreclose on substantially all our assets, which have been pledged to secure obligations under the 2007 Notes. We may be unable to successfully complete our plan of restructuring our debt We plan to restructure our debt to extend the maturity dates of the debt. In addition, we may also reduce our debt from cash generated by our subsidiaries or from the proceeds from the sale of assets. If we are unable to successfully complete this plan of restructuring, we will continue to incur significant levels of debt service expense and have to pay our debt as it becomes due. We have to service our dollar denominated debt with revenues generated in pesos or other currencies, as we do not generate sufficient revenue in dollars from our operations to service all our dollar denominated debt. This could adversely affect our ability to service our debt in the event of a devaluation or depreciation in the value of the peso, or any of the other currencies of the countries in which we operate A substantial portion of our debt is denominated in Dollars. As of March 31, 2006, approximately 99.3% of our debt was denominated in Dollars. This debt, however, must be serviced by funds generated by our subsidiaries. As of the date of this Annual Report, we do not generate sufficient revenue in Dollars from our operations to service all our Dollar denominated debt. Consequently, we have to use revenues generated in Pesos or other currencies to service our Dollar denominated debt. A devaluation or depreciation in the value of the Peso or any of the other currencies of the countries in which we operate, compared to the Dollar, could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. In 2005, a significant portion of our revenues were generated in the United States. During 2005, the Pesos appreciated approximately 5% against the Dollar. Fluctuations in the Peso-dollar exchange rate could lead to shifts in the types and volumes of Mexican imports and exports, negatively impacting results on some of our businesses. Although a decrease in the level of exports may be offset by a subsequent increase in imports, any offsetting increase might not occur on a timely basis, if at all. Future developments in U.S.-Mexican trade beyond our control may result in a reduction of freight volumes or in an unfavorable shift in the mix of products and commodities we carry. Risks Relating to our Business Uncertainties relating to our financial condition in our recent past and other factors raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and could have resulted in our dissolution under Mexican Corporate Law In their report for the two-year period ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2004, our independent auditors expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” The report observes that in 2004 and 2003 (i) the Company incurred net losses of $102,547 and $86,662, respectively, and (ii) the Company had an accumulated deficit of $170,517 and $67,970, respectively. Although Grupo TMM reduced its financial expense in a material way in 2005, it continued to experience net operating losses. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate profits and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources. In addition, at December 31, 2004, our substantial accumulated losses were in excess of two-thirds of our capital stock. Under Mexican law, when a company has accumulated losses in excess of two-thirds of its capital stock, any third party with legal interest may request the corresponding judicial authorities to declare the dissolution of the company. 10 Table of Contents We have had a history of net losses. If we are unable to maintain profitability and generate positive cash flow, we may not be able to continue operations For the year ended December 31, 2005, although our net income was $175.5 million, during the year ended December 31, 2004, we incurred a net loss of $99.9 million , and during the year ended December 31, 2003, we incurred a net loss of $84.6 million. If our time charter arrangements are terminated or expire, our business could be adversely affected As of December 31, 2005, we had three product tanker vessels on time-charter to PEMEX Refinación (“PER”), and fifteen offshore supply vessels on time charter to Pemex Exploración y Producción (“PEP”). PER and PEP are subsidiaries of Petroleos Mexicanos, the national oil company of Mexico (“PEMEX”). In addition, in 2005 we entered into two product tankers and eight offshore supply vessel chartering agreements with private operators with time periods ranging from one to five years. In the event that our time-charter arrangements are terminated or expire without being renewed, we will be required to seek new time-charter arrangements for these vessels. We cannot be sure that time-charters will be available for the vessels following termination or expiration or that time-charter rates in effect at the time of such termination or expiration will be comparable to those in effect under the existing time-charters or in the present market. In the event that time-charters are not available on terms acceptable to us, we may employ those vessels in the spot market. Because charter rates in the spot market are subject to greater fluctuation than time-charter rates, any failure to maintain existing, or enter into comparable, charter arrangements could adversely affect our operating results. Our results from operations are dependent on fuel expenses Our operations consume significant amounts of energy and fuel, the cost of which has significantly increased worldwide in recent years. We currently meet, and expect to continue to meet, our fuel requirements almost exclusively through purchases at market prices from PEMEX, a government-owned entity exclusively responsible for the distribution and sale of diesel fuel, maritime diesel oil and bunker fuel in Mexico. If we are unable to acquire diesel fuel from PEMEX on acceptable terms, our operations could be adversely affected. In addition, instability caused by imbalances in the worldwide supply and demand of oil may result in continuing increases in fuel prices and availability. Our fuel expense represents a significant portion of our operating expenses, and there may be increases in the price of diesel fuel that cannot be hedged or transferred to the final user of our transportation services. We cannot assure you that our operations would not be materially adversely affected in the future if prevailing conditions remain for a long period of time or if energy and fuel costs continue to increase. Downturns in the U.S. economy or in trade between the United States and Mexico would likely have adverse effects on our business and results of operations The level and timing of our business activity is heavily dependent upon the level of U.S.-Mexican trade and the effects of NAFTA on such trade. Downturns in the U.S. or Mexican economy or in trade between the United States and Mexico would likely have adverse effects on our business and results of operations. Our business of logistics and transportation of products traded between Mexico and the United States depends on the U.S. and Mexican markets for these products, the relative position of Mexico and the United States in these markets at any given time and tariffs or other barriers to trade. Our revenues were affected by the downturn in the U.S. economy in 2003. However, the U.S. economy started to reflect a recovery in the third quarter of 2003, and showed signs of continued improvement in 2004. In 2005, both U.S. and Mexican economies maintained their improvements achieved during 2004, growing at moderate rates. Any future downturn in the U.S. economy could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to meet our debt service obligations as described above. We may be unable to successfully expand our business Future growth of our businesses will depend on a number of factors, including: • the continued identification, evaluation and participation in niche markets; • the identification of joint venture opportunities or acquisition candidates; 11 Table of Contents • our ability to enter into acquisitions or joint ventures on favorable terms; • our ability to finance any expansion of our business; • our ability to hire and train qualified personnel, and to maintain our existing managerial base; • the successful integration of any acquired businesses with our existing operations; and • our ability to manage expansion effectively and to obtain required financing. In order to maintain and improve operating results from new businesses, as well as our existing businesses, we will be required to manage our growth and expansion effectively. However, the management of new businesses involves numerous risks, including difficulties in assimilating the operations and services of the new businesses, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and the disadvantage of entering markets in which we may have no or limited direct or prior experience. Our failure to effectively manage our business could preclude our ability to expand our business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Significant competition could adversely affect our future financial performance Certain of our business segments face significant competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our international parcel transportation services, our coastwise product tanker business, and our supply ship services rendered in the Gulf of Mexico have faced significant competition, mainly from U.S. and other international shipping companies acting directly or through a Mexican intermediary. In our inland operations division, our trucking transport and automotive logistics services have faced intense competition, including price competition, from a large number of Mexican, U.S. and international trucking lines and logistics companies. We cannot assure you that we will not lose business in the future due to our inability to respond to competitive pressures by decreasing our prices without adversely affecting our gross margins and operational results. Mexican law impacts the competitive forces in our Maritime Operations Article 34 of the Mexican Navigation Law (“Ley de Navegación”), enacted in January 1994, and amended in May 2000, establishes that cabotage services (movement of ships and cargo between Mexican ports or within Mexican ports and waters) are reserved for Mexican individuals dedicated to shipping or Mexican shipping companies, with Mexican-flagged vessels in Mexico. Additionally, Article 10 of the Mexican Navigation Law states that only Mexican individuals or Mexican companies are able to obtain the Mexican flag. As a result, the market share of offshore vessels in Mexico with Mexican flags has significantly increased in the past few years. In 2000, out of 185 vessels, 33% were Mexican-flagged while in 2005, out of 329 vessels, 69% were Mexican-flagged. In addition to the afore-said, on June 1, 2006 a new Mexican Navigation Law (“Ley de Navegación y Comercio Marítimos”) was published in the Mexico’s Official Gazette, which will become effective 30 (thirty) days thereafter. Once it comes into effect it will abrogate the current Mexican Navigation Law (“Ley de Navegación”). This new law will: (i) strengthen the reservation of cabotage services for Mexican individuals dedicated to shipping or Mexican shipping companies; (ii) establish mechanisms and procedures for the resolution of maritime controversies or disputes and (iii) in general terms be more protective of the Mexican shipping industry. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the percentage of Mexican-flagged vessels will continue to increase in the future. If the new legislation does not have the effect of supporting Mexican-flagged vessels in the maritime industry in Mexico or if the law changes to permit more non-Mexican-flagged vessels in Mexico, then we would face significant competition in our Maritime operations in Mexico and our results of operation may be adversely affected. Downturns in certain cyclical industries in which our customers operate could have adverse effects on our results of operations The shipping, transportation and logistics industries are highly cyclical, generally tracking the cycles of the world economy. Although transportation markets are affected by general economic conditions, there are numerous specific factors within each particular market segment that may influence operating results. Some of our customers do business in industries that are highly cyclical, including the oil and gas, automotive and agricultural sectors. Any 12 Table of Contents downturn in these sectors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For example, during the first half of 2004, our results were negatively impacted by continued sluggish conditions in the automotive sector and, during 2005, our results improved slightly as the automotive sector began its recovery. Also, some of the products we transport have had a historical pattern of price cyclicality, which has typically been influenced by the general economic environment and by industry capacity and demand. We cannot assure you that prices and demand for these products will not decline in the future, adversely affecting those industries and, in turn, our financial results. Grupo TMM is a party to a number of arrangements with other parties as joint investors in non-wholly owned subsidiaries Grupo TMM is a party to a number of arrangements with other parties under which it and such parties have jointly invested in non-wholly-owned subsidiaries; and Grupo TMM may enter into other similar arrangements in the future. Grupo TMM’s partners in these non-wholly-owned subsidiaries may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with its interests or those of the entity in which they have invested. Any of these partners may also be unable to meet their economic or other obligations to the non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Grupo TMM may be required to fulfill those obligations. Furthermore, any dividends that are distributed from subsidiaries that Grupo TMM does not wholly own would be shared pro rata with its partners according to their relative ownership interests. For these or any other reasons, disagreements or disputes with partners with whom Grupo TMM has a strategic alliance or relationship could impair or adversely affect its ability to conduct its business and to receive distributions from, and return on its investments in, those subsidiaries. Operational risks inherent in the transportation and logistics industry The operation of supply vessels, trucks and other machinery relating to the shipping and cargo business involves an inherent risk of catastrophic marine or land disaster, mechanical failure, collisions, and property losses to vessels or trucks, piracy, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political action in Mexico and in foreign countries. In addition, the operation of any oceangoing vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of catastrophic marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental accidents, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. Any such event may result in a reduction of revenues or increased costs. The company’s vessels and trucking supplies are insured for their estimated value against damage or loss, including war, terrorism acts, and pollution risks and the Company also carries other insurance customary in the industry. We maintain insurance to cover the risk of partial or total loss of or damage to all of our assets, including, but not limited to, seagoing vessels, port facilities, port equipment, trucks, land facilities and offices. In particular, we maintain marine hull and machinery and war risk insurance on our vessels, which covers the risk of actual or constructive total loss. Additionally, we have protection and indemnity insurance for damage caused by our operations to third persons. With certain exceptions, we do not carry insurance covering the loss of revenue resulting from a downturn in our operations or resulting from vessel off-hire time on certain vessels. In certain instances, and depending on the ratio of insurance claims to insurance premiums paid, we may choose to self-insure our over-the-road equipment following prudent guidelines. We cannot assure you that our insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages suffered by us or damages to others, that any particular claim will be paid or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Additionally, shipping activity decreases substantially during periods of cold weather, poor sea conditions or when sustained rainfalls occur. Such adverse weather conditions can adversely affect our results of operations and profitability if they occur with unusual intensity, during abnormal periods, or last longer than usual in our major markets, especially during peak shipping periods. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental and safety laws and regulations and we may incur costs that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition as a result of our liabilities under or potential violations of environmental and safety laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to general Mexican federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. The Procuraduría Federal de Protección al Ambiente (Mexican Attorney General for 13 Table of Contents Environmental Protection) is empowered to bring administrative and criminal proceedings and impose corrective actions and economic sanctions against companies that violate environmental laws, and temporarily or permanently close non-complying facilities. The Secretaría del Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (Mexican Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources) (“SEMARNAT”) and other ministries have promulgated compliance standards for, among other things, water discharge, water supply, air emissions, noise pollution, hazardous substances transportation and handling, and hazardous and solid waste generation.. Under the environmental laws, the Mexican Government has implemented a program to protect the environment by promulgating rules concerning water, land, air and noise discharges or pollution, and the transportation and handling of wastes and hazardous substances. We are also subject to the laws of various jurisdictions and international conferences with respect to the discharge of hazardous materials, wastes and pollutants into the environment. While we maintain insurance against certain of these environmental risks in an amount which we believe is consistent with amounts customarily obtained in accordance with industry norms, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover damages suffered by us or that insurance coverage will always be available for these possible damages. Further, such insurance typically excludes coverage for fines and penalties that may be levied for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. We anticipate that the regulation of our business operations under federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations will increase and become more stringent over time. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that the adoption of additional or more stringent environmental laws and regulations would have on our results of operations, cash flows, capital expenditure requirements or financial condition. Our international parcel transportation services rendered in the Gulf of Mexico and our coastwise product tanker business rendered in both the Gulf of Mexico and in the Pacific Ocean provide service to transport petrochemical products and refined clean and dirty petroleum products respectively. See Item 4. “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Maritime Operations.” Under the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or “OPA,” responsible parties, including ship owners and operators, are subject to various requirements and could be exposed to substantial liability, and in some cases unlimited liability, for removal costs and damages, including natural resource damages and a variety of other public and private damages, resulting from the discharge of oil, petroleum or related substances into the waters of the U.S. . In some jurisdictions, including the U.S., claims for spill clean-up or removal costs and damages would enable claimants to immediately seize the ships of the owning and operating company and sell them in satisfaction of a final judgment. The existence of comparable statutes enacted by individual states of the U.S., but requiring different measures of compliance and liability, creates the potential for similar claims being brought in the U.S. under state law. In addition, several other countries have adopted international conventions that impose liability for the discharge of pollutants similar to OPA. If a spill were to occur in the course of operation of one of our vessels carrying petroleum products, and such spill affected the waters of the United States or another country that had enacted legislation similar to OPA, we could be exposed to substantial or unlimited liability. Additionally, our vessels carry bunkers (ship fuel) and certain goods that, if spilled, under certain conditions, could cause pollution and result in substantial claims against us, including claims under international laws and conventions, OPA and other U.S. federal, state and local laws. Further, under OPA and similar international laws and conventions, we are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil spills and other pollution incidents. Penalties for failure to maintain the financial responsibility requirements can be significant and can include the seizure of the vessel. Our vessels must also meet stringent operational, maintenance and structural requirements, and they are subject to rigorous inspections by governmental authorities such as the U.S. Coast Guard for those vessels which operate within USA territorial waters. Non-compliance with these regulations could give rise to substantial fines and penalties. We could have liability with respect to contamination at our former U.S. facilities or third-party facilities in the U.S. where we have sent hazardous substances or wastes under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”) and comparable state laws (known as state Superfund laws). CERCLA and the state Superfund laws impose joint and several liability for the cost of investigation and remediation, natural resources damages, certain health studies and related costs, without regard 14 Table of Contents to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons with respect to the release into the environment of certain substances. These persons, commonly called “potentially responsible parties” or “PRPs” include the current and certain prior owners or operators of and persons that arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at sites where a release has occurred or could occur. In addition, other potentially responsible parties, adjacent landowners or other third parties may initiate cost recovery actions or toxic tort litigation against PRPs under CERCLA or state Superfund law or state common law. The U.S. Clean Water Act imposes restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of wastes into the waters of the United States. The Clean Water Act and comparable state laws, provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants. In the event of an unauthorized discharge of wastes or pollutants into waters of the United States, we may be liable for penalties and could be subject to injunctive relief. Potential labor disruptions could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to meet our obligations under our debt As of March 31, 2006, we had 5,054 employees, approximately 68% of whom were unionized. The compensation terms of the labor agreement with these employees are subject to renegotiation on an annual basis and all other terms are renegotiated every two years. We may not be able to negotiate these provisions favorably, and strikes, boycotts or other disruptions could occur. These potential disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt. Continuing world tensions, including as the result of wars, other armed conflicts and terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business Continuing world tensions, including those relating to the Middle East and North Korea, as well as terrorist attacks in various locations and related unrest, have increased worldwide political and economic instability and depressed economic activity in the U.S. and globally, including the Mexican economy. The continuation or escalation of existing armed hostilities or the outbreak of additional hostilities as a consequence of further acts of terrorism or otherwise could cause a further downturn and/or significant disruption to the economies of the U.S., Mexico and other countries. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and abroad and the potential for military action and heightened security measures in response to such threat may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world, including restrictions on cross-border transport and trade. Our customers may take actions that may reduce our revenues If our customers believe that our weakened financial condition will result in a lower quality of service, they may discontinue use of our services. Additionally, some customers may demand lower prices. While we have contracts with some of our customers that prevent them from terminating the services we provide them or which impose penalties on customers who terminate their services with us, it may be impractical or uneconomical to enforce these agreements in Mexican courts. If any of these events occurs, our revenues will be reduced. Our financial statements may not give you the same information as financial statements prepared under United States accounting rules. Our financial statements may not give you the same information as financial statements prepared under United States accounting rules. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS. IFRS differs in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP, including among others the classification of minority interest and employees’ profit sharing; the accounting treatment for capitalized interests, consolidation of subsidiaries, and acquisition of shares of subsidiaries from minority stockholders; and, the computation of deferred taxes. For this and other reasons, the presentation of financial statements and reported earnings prepared in accordance with IFRS may differ materially from the presentation of financial statements and reported earnings prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Transaction with KCS The value of the investment of Grupo TMM in KCS’ shares will depend on KCS’ performance in the future On March 13, 2006 we received approximately 1.5 million shares of KCS in connection with the VAT Contingency Payment, which we currently hold. In addition, KCS may elect to pay the $47.0 million Indemnity Escrow Note and the $40.0 million VAT Escrow Note in KCS stock, in which case the number of shares received by the Company resulting from the formula for the determination of the number of shares received in consideration of such payment obligations may differ significantly from the market value of such shares at the time the Company receives them or chooses to dispose of them. The value of such stock will be determined by the success of the KCS business. Investors should read carefully the annual report of KCS for the fiscal year concluded on December 31, 2005, as well as all the other reports and information that KCS submits to the SEC in the United States. The value attributed to the shares of KCS held by us may reflect a discount to the trading value of KCS shares generally as the KCS shares that we hold are unregistered and contain restrictions. Therefore, our ability to dispose of the KCS Shares and liquidate our position in KCS is restricted until the shares are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144, are registered for resale or an exemption from registration under the U.S. securities laws is applicable or available. For example, we might be able to sell our KCS shares in a private transaction but any such sale may reflect a discount to the then-current market price. Finally, although we have certain rights to cause the registration of the KCS shares, significant sales of shares by us or by others may have a negative effect on the market price of the KCS shares and the value of our stock. KCS’ obligations under the Amended and Restated Acquisition Agreement are unsecured Certain payments to be made to Grupo TMM pursuant to the Amended and Restated Acquisition Agreement entered into, by and among, Grupo TMM, KCS and other parties, on December 15, 2004 (the “AAA”) are subject to certain conditions and uncertainty. KCS’ payment obligations under the AAA are unsecured obligations. KCS entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions (the “KCS Credit Agreement”), which is secured by substantially all of the assets of KCS. As a result, the rights of Grupo TMM against KCS will be junior in priority to any secured debt of KCS. See Item 4. “Information on the Company — Recent Developments — Disposition of Grupo TMM’s interest in Grupo TFM to KCS.” Registration of KCS shares owned by Grupo TMM Upon a request to register the shares received as part of the VAT Contingency Payment, KCS notified us that KCS was unable to file a timely Form 10-K report with the SEC because of its inability to complete integration of financial information from its Mexican operations. Consequently, KCS was unable to register its securities using Form S-3. Pursuant to the terms of Registration Rights Agreement, KCS is permitted to delay the filing of any Registration Statement if KCS is not eligible to use Form S-3. Therefore, KCS will not be eligible to use Form S-3 again until after filing its Form 10-K for fiscal year 2006, which is due March 17, 2007, and only if it makes all its periodic SEC filings timely in the meantime and meets the other eligibility requirements at that time. The fact that these shares are unregistered and that we have no registration rights until such date may affect our ability to liquidate such shares until the shares are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144, are registered for resale, or unless an exemption from registration under the U.S. securities laws is applicable or available. For example, we might be able to sell our KCS shares in a private transaction, but any such sale may reflect a discount to the then-current market price. Risks Relating to Mexico Economic and political developments in Mexico may adversely affect our business Most of our operations and assets are located in Mexico. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and business may be affected by the general condition of the Mexican economy, the devaluation of the Peso as compared to the U.S. Dollar, Mexican inflation, interest rates, regulation, taxation, social instability and political, social and economic developments in Mexico. 16 Table of Contents Mexico is an emerging market economy, with attendant risks to our results of operations and financial condition Mexico has historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth. In 2001, Mexico’s gross domestic product, or GDP, decreased 0.1% primarily as a result of the downturn in the U.S. economy. Mexican GDP increased 0.7%, 1.6%, 4.4%, 2.7% and 5.5% in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and the three-month period ended March 31, 2006, respectively. GDP growth fell short of Mexico Consensus Board1 estimates in 2005; however, the Mexico Consensus Board estimates that GDP in Mexico is expected to grow by approximately 3.5% to 4.0%, while inflation is expected to be less than 4.0%, in 2006. We cannot assure you that these estimates will prove to be accurate. The Mexican Government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly, Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on Mexican private sector entities in general and on us in particular, as well as on market conditions, prices and returns on Mexican securities, including our securities. The national elections held on July 2, 2000 ended 71 years of rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party (“Partido Revolucionario Institucional”) (“PRI”) with the election of President Vicente Fox Quesada, a member of the National Action Party (“Partido Acción Nacional”) (“PAN”), and resulted in the increased representation of opposition parties in the Mexican Congress and in mayoral and gubernatorial positions. Although there have not yet been any material adverse repercussions resulting from this political change, multiparty rule is still relatively new in Mexico and could result in economic or political conditions that could materially and adversely affect our operations. The next national elections will be held in July 2006. We cannot predict if the PAN will be re-elected or if a different party will be elected. The possible change of party could impact the political landscape and we cannot predict if it would have a positive or negative impact on the Mexican economy. The Mexican economy in the past has suffered balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. Currency fluctuations or the devaluation and depreciation of the Peso could limit the ability of the Company and others to convert Pesos into U.S. Dollars or other currencies which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations Severe devaluation or depreciation of the Peso may also result in governmental intervention, as has resulted in Argentina, or disruption of international foreign exchange markets. This may limit our ability to transfer or convert Pesos into U.S. Dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our dollar denominated indebtedness and adversely affect our ability to obtain foreign currency and other imported goods. The Mexican economy has suffered current account balance payment of deficits and shortages of foreign exchange reserves in the past. While the Mexican Government does not currently restrict, and for more than ten years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert Pesos into U.S. Dollars or to transfer other currencies outside of Mexico, the Mexican Government could institute restrictive exchange control policies in the future. To the extent that the Mexican Government institutes restrictive exchange control policies in the future, our ability to transfer or convert Pesos into U.S. Dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on indebtedness would be adversely affected. Devaluation or depreciation of the Peso against the U.S. Dollar may also adversely affect U.S. Dollar prices for our debt securities. Pursuant to the provisions of NAFTA, if Mexico experiences serious balance of payment difficulties or the threat thereof in the future, Mexico would have the right to impose foreign exchange controls on investments made in Mexico, including those made by U.S. and Canadian investors. Any restrictive exchange control policy could adversely affect our ability to obtain dollars or to convert Pesos into dollars for purposes of making interest and principal payments to holders of new notes, to the extent that we may have to effect those conversions. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 1 Mexico Consensus Board is formed by six firms recognized internationally (American Chamber Mexico, Banamex, Bancomer, Center for Economic Forecasting, Grupo Financiero Inverlat and, Latin Source Mexico) 17 Table of Contents High interest rates in Mexico could increase our financing costs Mexico historically has had, and may continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities averaged 6.2%, 6.8%, 9.2% and 7.5% for 2003, 2004, 2005 and for the three-month period ended March 31, 2006. Accordingly, if we have to incur Peso-denominated debt in the future, it will likely be at higher interest rates. Developments in other emerging market countries or in the U.S. may affect us and the prices of our securities The market value of securities of Mexican companies, the economic and political situation in Mexico and our financial condition and results of operations are, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries and in the U.S. Although economic conditions in other emerging market countries and in the U.S. may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value or trading price of securities of Mexican issuers, including our securities, or on our business. Our operations, including demand for our products or services and the price of our debt securities, have also historically been adversely affected by increases in interest rates in the U.S. and elsewhere. The Federal Reserve Bank of the U.S. has signaled that it will continue implementing “measured” increases in interest rates in 2006. As interest rates rise, the prices of our securities may fall. Mexico may experience high levels of inflation in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations Mexico has a history of high levels of inflation, and may experience inflation in the future. During most of the 1980s and during the mid- and late-1990s, Mexico experienced periods of high levels of inflation. The annual rates of inflation for the last five years, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index, as provided by Banco de México, were: 2001 4.40 % 2002 5.70 % 2003 3.98 % 2004 5.19 % 2005 3.33 % 2006 (five months ended May 31) 1.01 % These inflation rates tend to be lower than Mexico’s historical inflation rates. Mexico’s current level of inflation has been reported at similar levels as the annual inflation rate of the U.S. but remains higher than that of Canada. The U.S. and Canada are Mexico’s main trading partners. We cannot give any assurance that the Mexican inflation rate will not increase or maintain its current level for any significant period of time. A substantial increase in the Mexican inflation rate would have the effect of increasing some of our costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market value of our new notes. High levels of inflation may also affect the balance of trade between Mexico and the United States, and other countries, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Political events in Mexico could affect Mexican economic policy and our business, financial condition and results of operations Mexico’s President Vicente Fox has encountered strong opposition to a number of his proposed reforms in both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, where opposition forces have frequently joined to block his initiatives. Although the Mexican economy has exhibited signs of improvement, general economic sluggishness continues. This continuing weakness in the Mexican economy, combined with recent political events, has slowed economic reform and progress. In the 2003 and 2004 elections, the political party of President Fox, the PAN, lost additional seats in the Mexican congress, as well as state governorships. The increased party opposition and legislative gridlock arising out of the elections could further hinder President Fox’s ability to implement his economic reforms. 18 Table of Contents Presidential and federal congressional elections in Mexico are scheduled to be held in July 2006. Under Mexican law, President Fox cannot run for re-election. The electoral process could lead to further friction among political parties and the executive branch officers, which could potentially cause additional political and economic instability. Additionally, once the President and representatives are elected, there could be significant changes in laws, public policies and government programs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Mexican economic and political situation which, in turn may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. National politicians are currently focused on the 2006 elections and crucial reforms regarding fiscal and labor policies, gas, electricity, social security and oil have not been and may not be approved. In addition, recent impeachment proceedings of Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the former Mayor of Mexico City and one of the current candidates for the Presidential elections, have increased political uncertainty. The effects on the social and political situation in Mexico, including the 2006 presidential elections and presidential succession, could adversely affect the Mexican economy, including the stability of its currency, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as market conditions and prices for our securities. Actual presidential polls are very tight and it is very difficult to predict the outcome of the election, or whether losing candidates may contest the validity of the official results issued by Mexico’s Federal Electoral Institute. Mexican antitrust laws may limit our ability to expand through acquisitions or joint ventures Mexico’s federal antitrust laws and regulations may affect some of our activities, including our ability to introduce new products and services, enter into new or complementary businesses or joint ventures and complete acquisitions. In addition, the federal antitrust laws and regulations may adversely affect our ability to determine the rates we charge for our services and products. Approval of the Comisión Federal de Competencia, or Mexican Antitrust Commission, is required for us to acquire and sell significant businesses or enter into significant joint ventures. Investors may not be able to enforce judgments against the Company Investors may be unable to enforce judgments against us. We are a stock corporation, organized under the laws of Mexico. Substantially all our directors and officers reside in Mexico, and all or a significant portion of the assets of those persons may be located outside the United States. It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or to enforce judgments against them or against us in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Additionally, it may not be possible to enforce, in original actions in Mexican courts, liabilities predicated solely only the U.S. federal securities laws and it may not be possible to enforce, in Mexican courts, judgments of U.S courts obtained in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Equity The protection afforded to minority shareholders in Mexico are different from those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and may be less than, those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States. Mexican laws concerning duties of directors are not well developed, there is no procedure for class actions as such actions are conducted in the United States and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits for the benefit of companies. Therefore, it may be more difficult for minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors or our controlling shareholders than it would be for minority shareholders of a United States company. The Company is controlled by the Serrano Segovia family Members of the Serrano Segovia family control the Company through their direct and indirect ownership of our Series A Shares. Holders of our ADSs may not vote at our shareholders meetings. Each of our ADSs represents one CPO. Holders of CPOs are not entitled to exercise any voting rights with respect to the Series A Shares held in the CPO Trust. Such voting rights are exercisable only by the trustee, which is required by the terms of the trust 19 Table of Contents agreement to vote such Series A Shares in the same manner as the majority of the Series A Shares that are not held in the CPO Trust that are voted at any shareholders’ meeting. Currently the Serrano Segovia Family owns a majority of the shares of Series A Shares that are not held in the CPO Trust. As a result, the Serrano Segovia family will be able to direct and control the policies of the Company and its subsidiaries, including mergers, sales of assets and similar transactions. See Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders.” A change in control may adversely affect us or the holders of the 2007 Notes A substantial portion of the Series A Shares and ADSs of the Company held by the Serrano Segovia family is currently pledged to secure indebtedness of the Serrano Segovia family and entities controlled by them and may from time to time in the future be pledged to secure obligations of other of their affiliates. A foreclosure upon any such Series A Shares held by the Serrano Segovia family could result in a change of control under the Indenture governing the 2007 Notes and certain other debt instruments of the Company and its subsidiaries. Our Indenture provides that certain change of control events with respect to us will constitute a default and that the holders may require us to repurchase the 2007 Notes in the event of a change of control at a price of 101% of the principal amount of the 2007 Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase. If a default occurs, we cannot assure you that we will have enough funds to repurchase all the 2007 Notes. The Company may not have sufficient assets to repurchase the 2007 Notes following a change of control. Holders of ADSs may not be entitled to participate in any future preemptive rights offering, which may result in a dilution of such holders equity interest in our company Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our stockholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage in our company. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are commonly referred to as preemptive rights. We may not be legally permitted to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to exercise preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless (1) we file a registration statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to that future issuance of shares or (2) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. If we do not file a registration statement with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission to allow holders of ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering or if there is not an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 available, the equity interests of holders of ADSs would be diluted to the extent that ADS holders cannot participate in a preemptive rights offering. 