Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and all of the other information contained in this report before deciding whether to purchase our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and investors might lose all or part of their investments in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry If the market for our automated voice messaging services and other on-demand communication services does not develop as we anticipate, our revenues would decline or fail to grow and we could incur operating losses. We derive, and expect to continue to derive for the foreseeable future substantially all of our revenues by providing our on-demand AVM services to businesses and other organizations. We expect that, in the future, a growing percentage of our revenues will result from the sale of our on-demand e-mail messaging and text messaging services. Due to advances in technology, the market for customer communication products and services continues to evolve, and it is uncertain whether our service will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. In order to succeed, we must increase the usage of our AVM services by existing clients and we must succeed in marketing our AVM and other communications services to additional organizations. Some organizations may be reluctant or unwilling to use AVM and other on-demand communication products and services for a number of reasons, including the perceived effectiveness of these products and services based on other delivery channels, such as direct mail and web, or other technologies, such as interactive voice response systems and predictive dialers. In addition, organizations may lack knowledge about the potential benefits that these products and services can provide. An organization may determine that it can achieve the same, or a higher, level of performance and results from products and services based on other delivery channels or technologies. Even if an organization determines that our AVM products and other on-demand communication services offer benefits superior to other customer contact products and services, it might not use our products or services because it has previously invested in alternative products or services or in internally developed messaging equipment, because it can obtain acceptable performance and results from alternative products and services available at a lower cost, or because it is unwilling to deliver customer information to a third-party vendor. Moreover, an organization may determine not to use AVM products and services due to the application, or potential application, of one or more of a variety of U.S. federal and state laws and regulatory interpretations, as described below under “Risks Related to Regulation of Use of Our Service.” If organizations do not perceive the potential and relative benefits of AVM products and other on-demand communication products and services or believe that other customer contact products and services offer a 15 Table of Contents better value because of competitive pricing, the market for our products and services may not continue to develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Because the markets we sell into are still developing and the manner of this development is difficult to predict, we could make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our operating results. Defects in our platform, disruptions in our service or errors in execution could diminish demand for our service and subject us to substantial liability. Our on-demand platform is complex and incorporates a variety of hardware and proprietary and licensed software. Internet-based services such as ours frequently experience disruptions from undetected defects when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In addition, our recently added text messaging capabilities may hinder the performance of our platform as we have limited experience with dealing with text messaging services. From time to time we have found and corrected defects in our platform. Other defects in our platform, or defects in new features, complementary services or upgrades released in the future, could result in service disruptions for one or more clients. Our clients might use our service in unanticipated ways that cause a service disruption for other clients attempting to access their contact list information and other data stored on our platform. In addition, a client may encounter a service disruption or slowdown due to high usage levels of our service. For example, in October 2008 we experienced a partial outage of the SoundBite Intelligent Communications Platform, which precluded certain clients from executing their campaigns in their desired timeframes. Clients engage our client management organization to assist them in creating and managing a campaign. As part of this process, we typically construct and test a script, map the client’s input file into our platform and map our output files to a client-specific format. In order for a campaign to be executed successfully, our client management staff must correctly design, implement, test and deploy these work products. The performance of these tasks can require significant skill and effort, and from time to time has resulted in errors that adversely affected a client’s campaign. Because clients use our service for critical business processes, any defect in our platform, any disruption in our service or any error in execution could cause existing or potential clients not to use our service, could harm our reputation, and could subject us to litigation and significant liability for damage to our clients’ businesses. The insurers under our existing liability insurance policy could deny coverage of a future claim that results from an error or defect in our platform or a resulting disruption in our service, or our existing liability insurance might not be adequate to cover all of the damages and other costs of such a claim. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our current liability insurance coverage will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The successful assertion against us of one or more large claims that exceeds our insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our liability insurance policy, including an increase in premiums or imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if we succeed in litigation with respect to a claim, we are likely to incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. Our quarterly operating results can be difficult to predict and can fluctuate substantially, which could result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and other operating results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our agreements with clients do not require minimum levels of usage or payments, and our revenues therefore fluctuate based on the actual usage of our service each quarter by existing and new clients. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results also might be due to numerous other factors, including: • our ability to attract new clients, including the length of our sales cycles, or to sell increased usage of our service to existing clients; • technical difficulties or interruptions in our service; 16 Table of Contents • changes in privacy protection and other governmental regulations applicable to the communications industry; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • the financial condition and business success of our clients; • purchasing and budgeting cycles of our clients; • acquisitions of businesses and products by us or our competitors; • competition, including entry into the market by new competitors or new offerings by existing competitors; • our ability to hire, train and retain sufficient sales, client management and other personnel; • timing of development, introduction and market acceptance of new services or service enhancements by us or our competitors; • concentration of marketing expenses for activities such as trade shows and advertising campaigns; • expenses related to any new or expanded data centers; and • general economic and financial market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them could cause our operating results to vary widely. Because of quarterly fluctuations, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. We may fail to forecast accurately the behavior of existing and potential clients or the demand for our service. Our expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations as to future revenues and are largely fixed in the short term. As a result, we could be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Variability in our periodic operating results could lead to volatility in our stock price as equity research analysts and investors respond to quarterly fluctuations. Moreover, as a result of any of the foregoing or other factors, our operating results might not meet our announced guidance or expectations of investors and analysts, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. Our clients are not obligated to pay any minimum amount for use of our service on an on-going basis, and if they discontinue use of any of our service or do not use our service on a regular basis, our revenues would decline. The agreements we enter into with clients do not require minimum levels of usage or payments and are terminable at will by our clients. The periodic usage of our service by an existing client could decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the client’s level of satisfaction with our service, the client’s ability to satisfy its customer contact processes internally, and the availability and pricing of competing products and services. If our service fails to generate consistent business from existing clients, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of our service for use in the collections process, and any event that adversely affects the collection agencies industry or in-house collection departments would cause our revenues to decline. In recent years, we have focused our AVM sales and marketing activities on the collection process, and have targeted collection agencies and debt buyers in the collection agencies industry as well as large in-house collection departments of businesses in other industries. Revenues from these collection businesses represented 80% of our revenues in 2008, 83% of our revenues in 2007 and 80% of our revenues in 2006. We expect that revenues from the collection businesses will continue to account for a substantial part of our revenues for the foreseeable future. 17 Table of Contents Collection businesses are particularly subject to changes in the overall economy. Collection businesses can be affected adversely by both a sustained economic upturn, which may result in lower levels of consumer debt default rates, and a sustained economic downturn, which may result in the extension of fewer loans as lenders impose conditions on the extension of credit that are not acceptable to potential borrowers. Collection businesses also can be affected adversely by tightening of credit granting practices as well as technological advances and regulatory changes that affect the collection of outstanding indebtedness. Any such changes, conditions or events that adversely affect collection businesses could cause us to lose some or all of the recurring business of our clients in the collections business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, two clients accounted for a total of 31% of our revenues in 2008, 29% of our revenues in 2007 and 26% of our revenues in 2006. These clients are in the collection agencies industry and a large in-house collection department of a telecommunications business. In addition to the risks associated with collections businesses in general, our business, financial condition and operating results would be negatively affected if these clients were to significantly decrease the extent to which they use our AVM service. Actual or perceived breaches of our security measures could diminish demand for our service and subject us to substantial liability. Our service involves the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information. Internet-based services such as ours are particularly subject to security breaches by third parties. Breaches of our security measures also might result from employee error or malfeasance or other causes, including as a result of adding new services and capabilities to our platform, such as text messaging. In the event of a security breach, a third party could obtain unauthorized access to our clients’ contact list information and other data. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, and they typically are not recognized until after they have been launched against a target. As a result, we could be unable to anticipate, and implement adequate preventative measures against, these techniques. Because of the critical nature of data security, any actual or perceived breach of our security measures could cause existing or potential clients not to use our service, could harm our reputation, and could subject us to litigation and significant liability for damage to our clients’ businesses. Interruptions or delays in service from our key vendors would impair the delivery of our on-demand service and could substantially harm our business and operating results. In delivering our service, we rely upon a combination of hosting providers, telecommunication carriers and data carriers. We serve our clients from three third-party hosting facilities. One facility is located in Ashburn, Virginia, and is owned by Equinix and operated by InterNap under an agreement that expires in October 2009. Another facility is located in Somerville, Massachusetts, and is owned and operated by InterNap under an agreement that expires in November 2009. Our agreements for these two facilities automatically renew for one year periods unless written notification is made by either party 90 days prior to renewal. Our third facility is located in Toronto, Canada and is owned and operated by Pier 1 Network Enterprises under an agreement that automatically renews for one month periods unless written notification is made by either party 60 days prior to the expiration date. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms following their termination, we will need to incur significant expense to relocate our data center or agree to the terms demanded by the hosting provider, either of which could harm our business, financial position and operating results. As of December 31, 2008, our clients’ campaigns were handled through a mix of telecommunication carriers and data carriers. We rely on these carriers to handle millions of customer contacts each day. We have contracts with these carriers that can be terminated by either party at the end of the contract term upon written notice delivered by either party a specified number of days before the end of the term. In addition, we can terminate the contracts at any time upon written notice delivered a specified number of days in advance, subject to the payment of specified termination charges. If a contract is terminated, we might be unable to obtain pricing on similar terms from another carrier, which would affect our gross margins and other operating results. 18 Table of Contents Our hosting facilities and our carriers’ infrastructures are vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires and similar natural events, as well as acts of terrorism, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. The occurrence of such a natural disaster or misconduct, a loss of power, a decision by either of our hosting providers to close the facilities without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Any interruption or delay in our service, even if for a limited time, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business will be harmed if we fail to develop new features that keep pace with technological developments. Organizations can use a variety of communication channels to reach their customers or other intended contacts. Recent technological advances have resulted in new communication channels, such as text messaging, and improvements in existing services and products, such as predictive dialers, that threaten to eliminate the competitive advantages of our service. Our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected if we are unable to complete and introduce, in a timely manner, new features for our existing services that keep pace with technological developments. For example, because most of our clients access our service using a web browser, we must modify and enhance our service from time to time to keep pace with new browser technology. If the on-demand delivery model is not widely accepted for our service, our revenues would decline or fail to grow and we could incur operating losses. All of our clients access and use our service on an on-demand basis. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of organizations to increase their use of an on-demand delivery model for enterprise applications in general and for our AVM, text messaging and e-mail services in particular. Many organizations have invested substantial financial and personnel resources to integrate traditional enterprise software and associated hardware into their businesses, and they might be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to an on-demand delivery model. Market acceptance of our on-demand delivery model for our service also might be limited by numerous other factors, including: • the security capabilities and reliability of our on-demand services; • reluctance by organizations to trust third parties to store and manage critical customer data; • our ability to continue to achieve and maintain high levels of client satisfaction; • the level of customization of our service; • our ability to meet the needs of broader segments of the customer contact market; • a substantial decrease in the cost of hardware and software necessary for organizations to maintain their customer contact technology in-house; and • adverse publicity about us, our service or on-demand communication solutions in general, whether based on poor performance by us or our competitors or on third-party reviews and industry analyst reports. Many of these factors are beyond our control. If businesses do not perceive the benefits of on-demand AVM services, then the market for on-demand AVM services might not develop further, or it could develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We face intense competition, and our failure to compete successfully would make it difficult for us to add and retain clients and would impede the growth of our business. The market for on-demand communication solutions is intensely competitive, changing rapidly and fragmented. It is subject to rapidly developing technology, shifting client requirements, frequent introductions 19 Table of Contents of new products and services, and increased marketing activities of industry participants. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced sales or lower margins, and could prevent our service, particularly our AVM product, or future customer communications solutions from achieving or maintaining broad market acceptance. If we are unable to compete effectively, it will be difficult for us to add and retain clients and our business, financial condition and operating results will be seriously harmed. Predictive dialers have been the basic method of AVM contact for the last two decades, and the vast majority of telephony customer contact today is completed using predictive dialer technology. Our AVM service competes with on-premise predictive dialers from a limited number of established vendors and a number of smaller vendors, as well as predictive dialers hosted by some of those smaller vendors on an application service provider basis. Many organizations have invested in on-premise predictive dialers and are likely to continue using those dialers until the dialers are no longer operational, despite the availability of new features and functionality in our AVM service or in other AVM solutions. In addition, the on-demand service delivery model is relatively new, and many organizations have not yet fully adopted or accepted a fully hosted delivery model. We have limited experience in marketing and operating our e-mail and text messaging based products. These services accounted for less than 3% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2008. Due to our limited experience with these solutions, we may be unable to compete with existing e-mail and text messaging communication providers. In addition, our service also competes with a number of hosted customer contact services. A limited number of established vendors and a number of smaller, privately held companies offer these hosted services which compete principally on the basis of price rather than features. In addition, a small number of vendors focus on providing hosted customer contact services with features more comparable to ours. These vendors generally compete on the basis of return on investment and features, rather than price. Other companies may enter the market by offering competing products or services based on emerging technologies, such as open-source frameworks, and may compete on the basis of either features or price. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources than we have. These vendors also have larger installed client bases and longer operating histories. Competitors with greater financial resources might be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services, or other incentives that we cannot match or offer. These competitors could be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new technologies and could be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. Mergers or other strategic transactions involving our competitors could weaken our competitive position, which could harm our operating results. Our industry is highly fragmented, and we believe it is likely that some of our existing competitors will consolidate or will be acquired. For example, CSG Systems International, a leading provider of customer care and billing solutions acquired Prairie Voice Services, an interactive messaging solutions provider, in July 2007. In addition, some of our competitors may enter into new alliances with each other or may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with systems integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties. Any such consolidation, acquisition, alliance or cooperative relationship could lead to pricing pressure and our loss of market share and could result in a competitor with greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to retain our executive officers and other key personnel, our business would be harmed and we might not be able to implement our business plan successfully. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key sales, marketing, service, engineering and technical staff. None of our executive officers or other key personnel is bound by an employment agreement, and therefore they can cease their employment with us at any time with no advance notice. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. We are dependent 20 Table of Contents on our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them could harm our operations and prevent us from successfully implementing our business plan in a timely manner, if at all. Failure to maintain our direct sales force will impede our growth. We are highly dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new clients and to generate repeat business from our existing client base. It is therefore critical that our direct sales force maintain regular contact with our clients, both to gauge client satisfaction with our service as well as to highlight the value that use of our service adds to their enterprises. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenues in the future will depend in large part on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and typically take more than a year before they achieve full productivity. Our recent and planned hires might not achieve full productivity as quickly as intended, or at all. If we fail to keep, hire and successfully train sufficient numbers of direct sales personnel, we will be unable to increase our revenues and the growth of our business will be impeded. Because competition for employees in our industry is intense, we might not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to execute our business plan. To continue to execute our business plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for senior engineers and senior sales executives. We might not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have experienced from time to time in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in technology-based industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. Volatility in the price of our common stock could therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. Furthermore, the requirement to expense stock options could discourage us from granting the size or type of stock options awards that job candidates require to join our company. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business plan and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, we would be unable to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors could gain access to our technology and our business could be harmed. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality and assignment of invention agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property might not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. We have only three issued patents and one patent application pending in the United States. Our issued patents and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in other countries are uncertain and might afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Consequently, we could be unable to prevent our intellectual property rights from being exploited abroad, which could diminish international sales or require costly efforts to protect our technology. Policing the unauthorized use of intellectual property rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation could be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we might not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. 21 Table of Contents Our product development efforts could be constrained by the intellectual property of others, and we could be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could be costly and time-consuming. The customer contact and telecommunications industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights, and by frequent litigation based upon allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have in the past been subject to litigation, now concluded, with a third party which alleged that our products and services violated their intellectual property rights. As we seek to extend our service, we could be constrained by the intellectual property rights of others. We might not prevail in any future intellectual property infringement litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time-consuming and distracting to management, result in costly litigation or settlement, cause product development delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. If our service violates any third-party proprietary rights, we could be required to re-engineer our service or seek to obtain licenses from third parties, which might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any efforts to re-engineer our service, obtain licenses from third parties on favorable terms or license a substitute technology might not be successful and, in any case, might substantially increase our costs and harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, our platform incorporates open source software components that are licensed to us under various public domain licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses and therefore the potential impact of such terms on our business is somewhat unknown. Our platform relies on technology licensed from third parties, and our inability to maintain licenses of this technology on similar terms or errors in the licensed technology could result in increased costs or impair the implementation or functionality of our service, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Our multi-tenant customer communication platform relies on technology licensed from third-party providers. For example, we use the Apache web server, the Oracle WebLogic application server, Nuance text-to-speech and automated speech recognition software, and the Oracle database. We anticipate that we will need to continue to license technology from third parties in the future. There might not always be commercially reasonable software alternatives to the third-party software that we currently license. Any such software alternatives could be more difficult or costly to replace than the third-party software we currently license, and integration of that software into our platform could require significant work and substantial time and resources. Any undetected errors in the software we license could prevent the implementation of our service, impair the functionality of our service, delay or prevent the release of new features, complementary services or upgrades, and injure our reputation. Our use of additional or alternative third-party software would require us to enter into license agreements with third parties, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any expansion of our business into international markets would expose us to additional business risks, and failure to manage those risks could adversely affect our business and operating results. Historically, we have focused our sales and marketing efforts principally on organizations located in the United States. Organizations in the United States accounted for substantially all of our revenues for 2008, 2007 and 2006. We have begun to commence operations outside the United States by, for example, establishing relationships with telephone carriers that enable the SoundBite Intelligent Communications Platform to deliver calls internationally. Those operations would be subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing international sales operations; • challenges encountered under local business practices, which vary by country and often favor local competitors; 22 Table of Contents • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, including employment and tax laws and regulations; • longer payment cycles in some countries; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • limited protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States. Our failure to manage the risks associated with our international operations effectively could limit the future growth of our business and adversely affect our operating results. Any expansion of our international operations could require a substantial financial investment and significant management efforts. Our limited operating history makes predicting future operating results more difficult. We were founded and began offering our on-demand AVM service in 2000. Investors must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties we encounter as a relatively new company in a rapidly changing market, including: • a single service offering accounted for more than 96% of our revenues for 2008, and we face risks in developing complementary services or new service offerings, including e-mail and text messaging; • we could encounter difficulties in managing the growth, if any, of our business; and • we could be unable to forecast accurately the behavior of existing and potential clients or the demand for customer contact products. We could fail to address one or more of these risks successfully. In addition, due to our relatively limited history, any historical operating, financial or business information relating to our operations might not be indicative of future results. We incurred a net loss in 2008 and 2006, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate net income in any future fiscal year or quarter or that we will be able to forecast accurately our operating results for any future fiscal year or quarter. We have in the past and may in the future enter into acquisitions; these acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We intend to pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies, and products that will complement our existing operations. For example, in 2008 we acquired substantially all of the assets of Mobile Collect, Inc., a privately held company that provides text messaging and mobile communications solutions. We cannot assure you that any acquisition we make in the future will provide us with the benefits we anticipated in entering into the transaction. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; • maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; • potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of management; • impairment of relationships with employees and clients as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel; • inability to maintain relationships with suppliers and clients of the acquired business; • difficulties in incorporating acquired technology and rights into products and services and our platform; • unexpected expenses resulting from the acquisition; • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; and • unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into our existing technology. 23 Table of Contents Acquisitions could result in the incurrence of debt, restructuring charges and large one-time write-offs, such as write-offs for acquired in-process research and development costs. Acquisitions could also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which might result in future impairment charges. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted and earnings per share could decrease. From time to time, we might enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Those negotiations could result in diversion of management time and significant out-of-pocket costs. If we are unable to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we could fail to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The consolidation of our customers can reduce the number of our customers and adversely affect our business. Some of our significant clients from time to time may merge, consolidate or enter into alliances with each other. The surviving entity or resulting alliance may subsequently decide to use a different service provider or to manage customer contact campaigns internally. Alternatively, the surviving entity or resulting alliance may elect to continue using our service, but its strengthened financial position or enhanced leverage may lead to pricing pressure. Either of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to offset the effects of any such price reductions, and may not be able to expand our client base to offset any revenue declines resulting from such a merger, consolidation or alliance. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards in the United States may be limited. As of December 31, 2008, we had net operating loss carryforwards of $16.8 million for U.S. federal tax purposes and an additional $1.8 million for state tax purposes. These carryforwards expire between 2009 and 2028. To the extent available, we intend to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce the corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. We experienced an ownership change for these purposes in 2007, which resulted in an annual limitation amount of $3.7 million on the use of net operating loss carryforwards generated from November 29, 2001 through November 8, 2007. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is limited, our income could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. If we are unable to raise capital when needed in the future, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, and if we succeed in raising capital, we may dilute investors’ percentage ownership of our common stock or may subject our company to interest payment obligations and restrictive covenants. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: • fund ongoing operations; • take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; • develop new products; and • respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute investors’ percentage ownership of our common stock. Capital raised through debt financing would require us to make periodic interest payments and may impose potentially restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, additional financings may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. A failure to obtain additional funding could prevent us from making expenditures that may be required to grow or maintain our operations. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulation of Use of Our Service We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of our service for use in the collections process, and our business and operating results could be substantially harmed if new U.S. federal and state laws or regulatory interpretations in one or more jurisdictions either make our service unavailable or less attractive for use in the collections process or expose us to regulation as a debt collector. Revenues from clients in the collections industry and large in-house, or first-party, collection departments represented 80% of our revenues in 2008, 83% of our revenues in 2007 and 80% of our revenues in 2006. These clients’ use of our service is affected by an array of complex federal and state laws and regulations. The U.S. Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, or FDCPA, limits debt collection communications by clients in the collection agencies industry, including third parties retained by creditors. For example, the FDCPA prohibits abusive, deceptive and other improper debt collection practices, restricts the timing and content of communications regarding a debt or a debtor’s location, and allows consumers to opt out of receiving debt collection communications. In general, the FDCPA also prohibits the use of debt collection calls to cause debtors to incur more debt. Many states impose additional requirements on debt collection communications, including limits on the frequency of debt collection calls, and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the comparable federal requirements. Moreover, regulations governing debt collection calls are subject to changing interpretations that may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions. Our business, financial position and operating results could be substantially harmed by the adoption or interpretation of U.S. federal or state laws or regulations that make our service either unavailable or less attractive for debt collection communications by existing and potential clients. We provide our service for use by creditors and debt collectors, but we do not believe that we are a debt collector for purposes of these U.S. federal or state regulations. An allegation by one or more jurisdictions that we are a debt collector for purposes of their regulations could cause existing or potential clients not to use our service, harm our reputation, subject us to administrative proceedings, or result in our incurring significant legal fees and other costs. If it were to be determined that we are a debt collector for purposes of the regulations of one or more jurisdictions, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and regulatory penalties and would be subject to additional rules, including licensing and bonding requirements. The costs of complying with these rules could be substantial, and we might be unable to continue to offer our service for debt collection communications in those jurisdictions, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, if clients use our service in violation of limits on the content, timing and frequency of their debt collection communications, we could be subject to claims by consumers that result in costly legal proceedings and that lead to civil damages, fines or other penalties. We could be subject to significant penalties or damages if our clients violate U.S. federal or state restrictions on the use of artificial or prerecorded messages to contact wireless telephone numbers, and our business and operating results could be substantially harmed if those restrictions make our service unavailable or less attractive. Under the U.S. Telephone Consumer Protection Act, it is unlawful to use an automatic telephone dialing system or an artificial or prerecorded message to contact any cellular or other wireless telephone number, unless the recipient previously has consented to receiving this type of message or is not charged for the message. Our service involves the use of artificial and prerecorded messages. Although our service is designed to enable a client to screen a contact list to remove wireless telephone numbers, a client may determine that voice or text messages to certain wireless telephone numbers are permitted because the recipients previously have consented to receiving artificial or prerecorded messages. We cannot ensure that, in using our service for a campaign, a client removes from its contact list the names of all persons who are associated with wireless telephone numbers and who have not consented to receiving artificial or prerecorded messages or, in particular, that the client properly interprets and applies the exemption for recipients who have consented to receiving such messages. Many states have enacted restrictions on using automatic dialing systems and artificial and prerecorded messages to contact wireless telephone numbers, and some of those state requirements may be more stringent than the comparable federal requirements. 25 Table of Contents In May 2008, a federal district court in California held that the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act prohibits any autodialed or prerecorded telephone call to a consumer’s cell phone unless the consumer had specifically consented to such calls. The same provision of such Act also applies to the sending of commercial text messages to cell phones. The ruling overturned an earlier interpretation of the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, that permitted autodialed and prerecorded calls to the cell phone of any consumer who had provided the cell phone number in connection with requesting a product or service. The ruling applied only in California and was subsequently overturned but, as a result of the initial decision, some existing or potential clients may decide to limit their use of our service to reach consumers on wireless numbers, which could materially adversely affect our revenues and other operating results. If clients use our service in a manner that violates any of these governmental regulations, federal or state authorities may seek to subject us to regulatory fines or other penalties, even if the violation did not result from a failure of our service. If clients use our service to screen for wireless telephone numbers and our screening mechanisms fail, we may be subject to regulatory fines or other penalties as well as contractual claims by clients for damages, and our reputation may be harmed. Regulatory restrictions on artificial and prerecorded messages present particular problems for businesses in the collection agencies industry. These third-party collection agencies and debt buyers do not have direct relationships with the consumer debtors and therefore typically do not have the ability to obtain from a debtor the consent required to permit the use of artificial or prerecorded messages in contacting a debtor at a wireless telephone number. These businesses’ lack of a direct relationship with debtors also makes it more difficult for them to evaluate whether a debtor has provided such consent. For example, a collection agency frequently must evaluate whether past actions taken by a debtor, such as providing a cellular telephone number in a loan application, constitute consent sufficient to permit the agency to contact the debtor using artificial or prerecorded messages. Moreover, a significant period of time elapses between the time at which a loan is made and the time at which a collection agency or debt buyer seeks to contact the debtor for repayment, which further complicates the determination of whether the collection agency or debt buyer has the required consent to use artificial or prerecorded messages. The difficulties encountered by these third-party collection businesses are becoming increasingly problematic as the percentage of U.S. consumers using cellular telephones continues to increase. If these third-party collection businesses are unable to use artificial or prerecorded messages to contact a substantial portion of their debtors, our service will be less useful to them. If our clients in the collection agencies industry significantly decrease their use of our service, our business, financial position and operating results would be substantially harmed. We could be subject to penalties if we or our clients violate federal or state telemarketing restrictions due to a failure of our service or otherwise, which could harm our financial position and operating results. The use of our service for marketing communications is affected by extensive federal and state telemarketing regulation. The Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act and Telephone Consumer Protection Act, among other U.S. federal laws, empower both the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, to regulate interstate telephone sales calling activities. The FTC’s Telemarketing Sales Rule requires us to transmit Caller ID information, disclose certain information to call recipients and retain business records. This rule proscribes misrepresentations, prohibits the abandonment of telemarketing calls and limits the timing of calls to consumers. If we fail to comply with applicable FTC telemarketing regulations, we may be subject to substantial regulatory fines or other penalties as well as contractual claims by clients for damages, and our reputation may be harmed. The FTC’s Telemarketing Sales Rule, for example, imposes fines of up to $11,000 per violation. If clients use our service in a manner that violates any of these telemarketing regulations, the FTC may seek to subject us to regulatory fines or other penalties, even if the violation did not result from a failure of our service. In addition, FCC and FTC regulations restrict the use of automatic telephone dialing systems, predictive dialing techniques, and artificial or prerecorded voice messages for a wide variety of purposes, including telemarketing calls. In particular, those regulations prohibit an organization from using artificial or prerecorded voice messages in a telemarketing call unless the organization has an established business relationship, or EBR, with the recipient. We cannot ensure that, in using our service for a campaign, a client removes from its 26 Table of Contents contact list the names of all persons with whom the client does not have an EBR or that the client properly interprets and applies the EBR exemption. If clients use our service to place unauthorized calls or in a manner that otherwise violates EBR restrictions, U.S. federal or state authorities may seek to subject us to substantial regulatory fines or other penalties, even if the violation did not result from a failure of our screening mechanisms. In October 2006, the FTC requested public comments on a proposal that would have eliminated the EBR exemption, thereby broadening the restrictions on automated telemarketing calls. In December 2006, the FTC announced that it would postpone any implementation of the proposal and, to date, has taken no further action on it. We are unable to predict whether, or when, the FTC may determine to implement such proposal. If the FTC implements the proposal, or if it otherwise narrows or repeals the EBR exemptions, our operating results could be adversely affected and our future growth prospects could be severely harmed. Many states have enacted prohibitions or restrictions on telemarketing calls into their states, specifically covering the use of automatic dialing systems and predictive dialing techniques. Some of those state requirements are more stringent than the comparable federal requirements. If clients use our service in a manner that violates any of these telemarketing regulations, state authorities may seek to subject us to regulatory fines or other penalties, even if the violation did not result from a failure of our service. To the extent that our service is used to send e-mail or text messages, our clients will be, and we may be, affected by regulatory requirements in the United States. Organizations may determine not to use these channels because of prior consent, or opt-in, requirements or other regulatory restrictions, which could harm our future business growth. Our failure to comply with numerous and overlapping information security and privacy requirements could subject us to fines and other penalties as well as claims by our clients for damages, any of which could harm our reputation and business. Our collection, use and disclosure of personal information are affected by numerous privacy, security and data protection regulations. We are subject to the FTC’s Gramm-Leach-Bliley Privacy Rule when we receive nonpublic personal information from clients that are treated as financial institutions under those rules. These rules restrict disclosures of consumer information and limit uses of such information to certain purposes that are disclosed to consumers. The related Gramm-Leach-Bliley Safeguards Rule requires our financial institution clients to impose administrative, technical and physical data security measures in their contracts with us. Compliance with these contractual requirements can be costly, and our failure to satisfy these requirements could lead to regulatory penalties or contractual claims by clients for damages. Some of our service requires us to receive consumer information that is protected by the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which defines permissible uses of consumer information furnished to or obtained from consumer reporting agencies. We generally rely on our clients’ assurances that any such information is requested and used for permissible purposes, but we cannot be certain that our clients comply with these restrictions. We could incur costs or could be subject to fines or other penalties if the FTC determines that we have mishandled protected information. Many jurisdictions, including the majority of states, have data security laws including data security breach notification laws. When our clients operate in industries that have specialized data privacy and security requirements, they may be subject to additional data protection restrictions. For example, the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, regulates the maintenance, use and disclosure of personally identifiable health information by certain health care-related entities. States may adopt privacy and security regulations that are more stringent than federal rules. If we experience a breach of data security, we could be subject to costly legal proceedings that could lead to civil damages, fines or other penalties. We or our clients could be required to report such breaches to affected consumers or regulatory authorities, leading to disclosures that could damage our reputation or harm our business, financial position and operating results. We may record certain of our calls for quality assurance, training or other purposes. Many states require both parties to consent to such recording, and may adopt inconsistent standards defining what type of consent is required. Violations of these rules could subject us to fines or other penalties, criminal liability, or claims by 27 Table of Contents our clients for damages, any of which could hurt our reputation or harm our business, financial position and operating results. It may be impossible for us to comply with the different data protection regulations that affect us in different jurisdictions. For example, the USA PATRIOT Act provides U.S. law enforcement authorities certain rights to obtain personal information in the control of U.S. persons and entities without notifying the affected individuals. Some foreign laws, including some in Canada and the European Union, prohibit such disclosures. Such conflicts could subject us and our clients to costs, liabilities or negative publicity that could impair our ability to expand our operations into some countries and therefore limit our future growth. Any expansion of our business into international markets would require us to comply with additional debt collection, telemarketing, data privacy or similar regulations, which could make it costly or difficult to operate in these markets. Our clients are located principally in the United States, with a limited number located in Canada and the United Kingdom. We intend to commence or expand our operations in one or more other countries. Any such country may have laws and regulations governing debt collection, telemarketing, data privacy or other communications activities comparable in purpose to the U.S. and state laws and regulations described above. Compliance with these requirements may be costly and time consuming, and may limit our ability to operate successfully in one or more foreign jurisdictions. For example, our current telemarketing activities in the United Kingdom are affected by a comprehensive telemarketing regulation, including a prohibition on calls to numbers on the UK’s national do-not-call registry, the Telephone Preference Service. Canada has also established a similar national do-not-call registry and prohibits the use of automatic dialog and announcing devices for solicitations except in limited circumstances. Outside of the United States, our business is likely to be subject to more stringent data protection regulations. For example, the Canadian Personal Information Protection and Electronics Documents Act and similar Canadian provincial laws restrict the use, collection, and disclosure of personal information, require security safeguards, and could require contractual commitments in our client contracts. The European Union Directive on Data Protection and national implementing laws restrict collection, use and disclosure of personal data in EU countries and prohibits transfers of this information to the United States unless specified precautions are implemented. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about our company and business. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our common stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about our company and business. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of shares of our common stock could drop significantly if our officers, directors or other stockholders decide to sell shares of our common stock into the market. 28 Table of Contents Our directors, executive officers and their affiliated entities will continue to have substantial control over us and could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control. As of March 1, 2009, our executive officers and directors and their affiliated entities, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 63.1% of our outstanding common stock. In particular, affiliates of North Bridge Ventures Partners, including James A. Goldstein, one of our directors, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 30.3% of our outstanding common stock. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliated entities, if acting together, are able to control or significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may have interests that differ from those of other investors, and they might vote in a way with which other investors disagree. The concentration of ownership of our common stock could have the effect of delaying, preventing, or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company, and could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our corporate documents and Delaware law make a takeover of our company more difficult, which could prevent certain changes in control and limit the market price of our common stock. Our charter and by-laws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that could enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. These provisions could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. They could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Some provisions in our charter and by-laws could deter third parties from acquiring us, which could limit the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors are not likely to receive any dividends on their common stock in the foreseeable future, and their ability to achieve a return on their investment will therefore depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 