Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating SiRF and SiRF’s business, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the cautionary statements and other risks described elsewhere herein and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in SiRF’s other filings with the SEC. Any one of the following risks could seriously harm SiRF’s business, financial condition, and results of operations, causing the price of SiRF’s stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to SiRF or that SiRF currently deems immaterial may also impair SiRF’s business operations. Risks related to the proposed Merger with CSR Failure to complete, or delays in completing, the Merger with CSR could materially harm SiRF’s results of operations and reduce the price of SiRF’s stock. On February 9, 2009, SiRF signed a Merger Agreement with CSR and Shannon pursuant to which CSR offered to acquire each share of SiRF’s common stock for 0.741 of a CSR ordinary share, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. Various approvals are required to consummate the Merger, which is anticipated to close late in the second quarter of 2009. There can be no assurance that the necessary approvals will be obtained, that regulatory approvals will not subject SiRF to additional obligations, or that SiRF will be able to consummate the Merger as currently contemplated under the Merger Agreement within the proposed timeframe, if at all. 17 Table of Contents In addition, if the market perceives the transaction as unlikely to close, SiRF’s stock price may decline. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could reduce SiRF’s revenue, increase SiRF’s expenses, and harm SiRF’s stock price. Merging with CSR could materially and adversely impact SiRF, both during the pendency of the Merger and after the closing. The Merger with CSR could materially impact SiRF. Risks associated with the Merger include the following: • The attention of management and SiRF’s employees has been and may continue to be diverted from day-to-day operations; • SiRF’s sales may be disrupted by its current and potential customers’ uncertainty over when or if the Merger will be consummated; • SiRF’s current and potential customers may decide not to purchase products from SiRF or may defer purchasing decisions indefinitely; • SiRF’s ability to attract new employees and retain existing employees may be difficult as a result of the uncertainty about their future roles within SiRF as an acquired business and other uncertainties associated with the Merger; • SiRF will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs relating to the Merger even if the Merger does not occur; • Under specified circumstances, SiRF may have to pay CSR a termination fee of $3.66 million; • The market price for CSR ordinary shares may be affected by factors different from those affecting the shares of SiRF; • CSR may experience difficulties in integrating SiRF’s business with the existing CSR businesses; • CSR may not achieve the synergies it has anticipated for the combined company; • Failure to complete the Merger will subject SiRF and CSR to financial risks, and could negatively impact the market price of SiRF common stock and CSR ordinary shares; • Obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions may delay or prevent completion of the Merger or affect the combined company in an adverse manner; • Some of the directors and executive officers of SiRF have interests and arrangements that could have affected their decision to support or approve the Merger; • There are differences between the rights of SiRF stockholders and CSR shareholders; • The combined company may lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers as a result of the Merger; • After the Merger, CSR, as a foreign private issuer, will be subject to different corporate disclosure standards and other rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which may limit the information available to holders of CSR securities; • SiRF and its directors are parties to pending lawsuits seeking unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief in connection with the Merger; • The Merger may be completed even though material adverse changes may result from industry-wide changes and other causes subsequent to the announcement of the Merger Agreement; • During the pendency of the Merger, CSR and SiRF may not be able to enter into a merger or business combination with another party at a favorable price because of the restrictions in the Merger Agreement; and • Third parties may terminate or alter existing contracts with SiRF. 18 Table of Contents Provisions of the Merger Agreement may deter alternative business combinations and could impact the price of SiRF’s common stock if the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for SiRF to sell its business to a party other than CSR. These provisions include the general prohibition on SiRF soliciting any acquisition proposal or offer for a competing transaction, and the requirement that SiRF pay a termination fee of $3.66 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated in specified circumstances. These provisions might discourage a third party with an interest in acquiring all of or a significant part of SiRF from considering or proposing an acquisition, including a proposal that might be more advantageous to SiRF’s stockholders when compared to the terms and conditions of the Merger set forth in the Merger Agreement. Furthermore, the termination fee may result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire SiRF than it might otherwise have proposed to pay to SiRF’s stockholders. Risks related to SiRF’s Business Because many companies sell in the market for location technology products, SiRF must compete successfully to sustain or gain market share. The market for SiRF’s products is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. SiRF is seeing increased competition throughout the market for location technology products. This increased competition has resulted in and will likely continue to result in price reductions, reduced margins and/or loss of market share. SiRF may be unable to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Some of SiRF’s customers are also its competitors. Within each of SiRF’s markets, it faces competition from public and private companies, as well as its customers’ in-house design efforts. For chip sets, SiRF’s main competitors include Atheros Communications, Atmel, Broadcom, Infineon, MediaTek, QUALCOMM, Sony, ST-Ericcson (the newly formed joint venture between Ericsson Mobile Platforms and ST-NXP Wireless), STMicroelectronics, Texas Instruments, Trimble and u-blox. Some large semiconductor companies may acquire private GPS companies to gain access to their technology and become serious competitors to SiRF in a short time. For modules based on SiRF’s products, the main competitors are Furuno, JRC, Sony, Trimble and u-blox. For licensed IP cores, SiRF’s competitors include Ceva, QUALCOMM and several private companies. Licensees of intellectual property from SiRF’s competitors may also compete against SiRF. SiRF also competes against suppliers of software-based GPS solutions including NXP and RFMD. SiRF expects new competitors to enter the commercial market for GPS semiconductors as demand for GPS systems continues to grow. SiRF anticipates that the increase in demand of GPS-based products will cause further price reductions in the market. In the wireless market, SiRF also competes against products based on alternative location technologies that do not rely on GPS, such as wireless infrastructure-based systems. These systems are based on technologies that compute a caller’s location by measuring the differences in signals between individual cellular base stations and/or Wi-Fi positioning. If these technologies become more widely adopted, market acceptance of SiRF’s products may decline. Competitors in these areas include Andrew, Polaris and TruePosition. Further, alternative satellite-based navigation systems such as Galileo, which is being developed by European governments, or Glonass, which is managed by the Russian government, may reduce the demand for GPS-based applications or cause customers to postpone decisions on whether to integrate GPS capabilities into their products. SiRF also believes that its success depends on its ability to establish and maintain relationships with established system providers and industry leaders. SiRF’s failure to establish and maintain these relationships, or any interference with these relationships by its competitors, could harm SiRF’s ability to penetrate emerging markets. In addition, in January 2009, the ITC issued the ITC Final Determination with respect to the ITC complaint filed by Global Locate. The ITC issued a Limited Exclusion Order prohibiting unlicensed entry of infringing products into the U.S. by or on behalf of SiRF or the customers named in the investigation, E-TEN Information 19 Table of Contents Systems Co., Ltd., Mio Technology Ltd, USA, MiTAC International Corp. and Tharos Science & Applications, Inc., or the Named Respondents, and issued Cease and Desist Orders against SiRF and the domestic Named Respondents from importing or selling products in the United States that may be found to infringe any asserted patent. If U.S. Customs does not approve for importation SiRF’s products containing the new versions of its software into the U.S., SiRF may lose market share in its existing markets, which could harm its business, financial condition and results of operations. SiRF has not sought approval from U.S. Customs on any new versions of the GSCi-4100, GSCi-4200 and GSCi-5000 hardware products. In 2008, these customers collectively represented approximately 7% of SiRF’s net revenues. See the risk factor titled, “SiRF is involved in patent litigation with Broadcom before the United States International Trade Commission and federal court, and is subject to a limited exclusion order prohibiting the unlicensed entry into the United States of certain SiRF products deemed to be infringing on Broadcom patents by or on behalf of SiRF or the customers named in the investigation and is also subject to cease and desist orders against it and its named domestic customers that were named in the investigation. If SiRF is unable to obtain approvals from U.S. Customs for the importation of its products or those of its customers, its business may be materially adversely affected”, for further information. Many of SiRF’s competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than SiRF does. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Existing or new competitors may also develop technologies that more effectively address SiRF’s markets with products that offer enhanced features and functionality, lower power requirements, greater levels of integration or lower cost. SiRF cannot assure you that it will be able to continue to compete successfully against current or new competitors. If SiRF does not compete successfully, it may lose market share in its existing markets and its revenues may fail to increase or may decline. Declining general economic, business and industry conditions has reduced, and may further reduce, SiRF’s net revenue. The recent disruption in global macroeconomic conditions had a significant adverse effect on the semiconductor industry as a whole and on SiRF’s business and results of operations. Concerns over credit conditions resulting from the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, volatility in energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns in the wired and wireless communications markets, the ongoing effects of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, recent international conflicts, and the impact of natural disasters have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of slower global economic growth going forward. As a result, SiRF has experienced cancellations, deferrals and a significant slowdown in orders and anticipates this trend to continue as the current recession is expected to last through 2009. These conditions make it extremely difficult for SiRF’s customers, SiRF’s vendors and SiRF to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and non-U.S. businesses to further slow spending on SiRF’s products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times such as the current recession, SiRF’s customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to SiRF. If that were to occur, SiRF may be required to increase its allowance for doubtful accounts and SiRF’s accounts receivable days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. The current economic downturn and any future downturn may reduce SiRF’s revenue and result in SiRF having excess inventory. SiRF cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the semiconductor industry or the wired and wireless communications markets. If the economy or the markets in which SiRF operates does not improve from their current condition or if they continue to deteriorate, SiRF’s customers or potential customers to reduce or delay their product development, which could impact SiRF’s ability to manage inventory levels, collect customer receivables, and ultimately decrease SiRF’s net revenue and profitability. 20 Table of Contents The average selling prices of products in SiRF’s markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm SiRF’s revenue and gross profits. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the average selling price of SiRF’s products historically declines significantly over the life of the product. The products SiRF develops and sells are used for high-volume applications. In the past, SiRF has reduced the average selling prices of its products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by it or its competitors and other factors. SiRF expects that it will have to similarly reduce prices in the future for mature products. Reductions in SiRF’s average selling prices to one customer could also impact SiRF’s average selling prices to all customers. In addition, the semiconductor industry is experiencing a significant downturn during the current global recession. During these downturns, some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices which could adversely impact SiRF’s gross margins. SiRF’s financial results could suffer if it is unable to offset any reductions in its average selling prices by increasing its sales volumes, reducing its costs, adding new features to its existing products or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margins. During fiscal 2008, the average selling prices for SiRF’s products declined, and SiRF was unable to sufficiently reduce its costs or offset the declines with high selling prices on its newer products, causing a substantial decline in SiRF’s net revenues and results of operations. SiRF is involved in patent litigation with Broadcom before the United States International Trade Commission and federal court, and is subject to a limited exclusion order prohibiting the unlicensed entry into the United States of certain SiRF Technology products deemed to be infringing on Broadcom patents by or on behalf of SiRF Technology or the customers named in the investigation and is also subject to cease and desist orders against it and its named domestic customers that were named in the investigation. If SiRF is unable to obtain approvals from U.S. Customs for the importation of its products or those of its customers, its business may be materially adversely affected. On April 2, 2007, Global Locate filed a complaint with the ITC regarding certain of SiRF Technology’s GPS devices as well as products SiRF Technology made for four of its customers, and the ITC subsequently instituted an investigation. Upon its acquisition of Global Locate, Broadcom was subsequently added as an additional complainant to the investigation. In August 2008, the ITC concluded that all six of the asserted Broadcom patents (1) had an existing domestic industry, (2) were valid, and (3) were infringed by certain of SiRF Technology’s products, and issued a recommendation that (1) those of SiRF Technology’s products that are accused products in the investigation, if found to infringe a patent at issue in the investigation, should be excluded from the United States, (2) a Limited Exclusion Order should be extended to products containing any of SiRF Technology’s products that may be found to infringe, and (3) Cease and Desist Orders should be issued prohibiting SiRF Technology from importing or selling in the United States those of SiRF Technology’s products which may be found to infringe any asserted patent. In January 2009, the ITC issued the ITC Final Determination in this matter and issued a Limited Exclusion Order prohibiting unlicensed entry of the infringing products into the United States by or on behalf of SiRF Technology or the Named Respondents, and Cease and Desist Orders against SiRF Technology and the domestic Named Respondents. The ITC’s remedial orders are subject to review by the President of the United States, acting through the United States Trade Representative’s Office, for sixty days. During that time, imports of affected products may continue subject to the posting of a bond. SiRF Technology has not obtained approval to date from U.S. Customs for the importation of its products into the United States containing new versions of its software and, if SiRF Technology or its customers are unable to do so, SiRF Technology’s business could be materially and adversely affected. SiRF has not sought 21 Table of Contents approval from U.S. Customs on any new versions of the GSCi-4100, GSCi-4200 and GSCi-5000 hardware products. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that Broadcom will not seek to bring an enforcement action against SiRF Technology alleging violations of the Limited Exclusion Order and Cease and Desist orders. In addition, on May 14, 2008, Broadcom filed a patent infringement complaint against SiRF Technology in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges infringement of four patents purportedly assigned to Broadcom and seeks both monetary damages and an injunction. On June 4, 2008, SiRF Technology answered the aforementioned complaint and filed counterclaims seeking declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity of all four patents. In addition, SiRF Technology has filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Requests for Ex-Parte Reexamination of each of the four patents. Through its Reexamination Requests and in SiRF Technology’s view of what are substantial new questions of patentability raised by prior art that SiRF Technology believes may not have been previously considered in full by the Patent Office, SiRF Technology is seeking review and invalidation of all four of the Broadcom patents-in-suit. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office granted each of the SiRF Technology’s requests for reexamination with respect to the four patents and has ordered their reexamination. On September 15, 2008, the Honorable James V. Selna denied SiRF Technology’s motion to stay proceedings in the district court action pending the outcome of reexamination, without prejudice to any subsequent motion to stay proceedings. The case has been scheduled for trial in November 2010. This litigation is in its nascent stages and no estimate can be made about the likelihood or impact of any final decision. No assurance can be made that Broadcom will not seek to commence additional litigation against SiRF Technology, or that the pending litigation with Broadcom will not have a material adverse effect on its business. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, under Part I of this report for further information. Any potential dispute involving SiRF’s patents or intellectual property or third party patents or third party intellectual property could be costly, time-consuming and may result in SiRF’s loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against SiRF, and its products may be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, SiRF and its customers receive letters, including letters from various industry participants, alleging infringement of patents or offerings to discuss licensing of third party patents alleged to be used in SiRF’s products. As SiRF continues to increase its international sales, it may become more susceptible to these types of infringement claims. Litigation may be necessary to enforce SiRF’s patents or any patents it may receive and other intellectual property rights, to protect its trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, and it is possible that it may not prevail in any future litigation. SiRF also faces the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging its infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. If infringement claims are brought against SiRF, these assertions could distract management and necessitate its expenditure of potentially significant funds and resources to defend or settle such claims. SiRF cannot be certain that it will have the financial resources to defend itself against any patent or other intellectual property litigation. If SiRF is unsuccessful in any challenge to its rights to market and sell its products, it may, among other things, be required to: • pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits and the third party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, use, marketing, advertising or sale of products that use the intellectual property in question through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; • utilize significant resources to modify or redesign its products, manufacturing processes or other technology so that it does not infringe others’ intellectual property rights or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible; or • obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which could require it to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments and may not be available to it on acceptable terms, if at all, or cease marketing the challenged products. 22 Table of Contents In addition, before SiRF can successfully defend an infringement claim, its customers may become reluctant to include it in their future product designs. Therefore, even if SiRF is successful in defending an infringement claim, negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on its business in addition to the expense, time delay and burden on management of litigation. See Note 21, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 under Part II in this report for further information. See also Item 3, Legal Proceedings, under Part I in this report for further information regarding SiRF’s current litigation. Parties making infringement claims may also be able to bring an action before the ITC that could result in an order stopping the importation into the United States of SiRF’s products and its customers’ products. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, under Part I in this report for further information. Ultimately, SiRF could be prevented from selling a product or otherwise forced to cease some aspect of its business operations as a result of any intellectual property litigation. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, under Part I in this report. SiRF has been named as a party in several putative shareholder class action and derivative lawsuits, which could cause SiRF’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer. SiRF and certain of its officers and directors have been named as defendants in a putative class action lawsuit that alleges violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and shareholder derivative lawsuits alleging breaches of fiduciary duty, a description of which can be found in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below. Subject to certain limitations, SiRF is obligated to indemnify its current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with such lawsuits. While SiRF has director and officer insurance, amounts under the policy may not be sufficient to cover SiRF’s indemnification obligations. Regardless of the outcome, this litigation, and any other litigation that may be brought against SiRF or its directors and officers, could be time consuming, result in significant expense, and divert the attention and resources of its management and other key employees. An unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on SiRF’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. SiRF’s quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and, if SiRF does not meet quarterly financial expectations, its stock price will likely decline. SiRF’s quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and, have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It is possible that SiRF’s operating results in some quarters will be below market expectations. This would likely cause the market price of SiRF’s common stock to decline. SiRF’s quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of the risks and other factors as discussed, including: • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, equity prices and the value of financial assets; • SiRF’s ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced GPS-based products in a timely manner; • changes in the relative volume of sales of SiRF’s chip sets, its premium software offerings and its IP cores or other products and product mix, which have significantly different average selling prices and gross margins; • unpredictable volume, timing and cancellation of customer orders; • unpredictable or launch delays of location-based services by operators impacting demand from SiRF’s customers; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of other components, such as flash memory and crystal oscillators, used in SiRF’s customers’ products; 23 Table of Contents • SiRF’s ability to maintain and expand market share in the face of evolving markets and increasing competition; • the timing of new product announcements or introductions by SiRF or by its competitors; • the introduction or delay in launch of SiRF’s customers’ products using its technology or customers no longer using its technology; • seasonality in SiRF’s various target markets; • product obsolescence and SiRF’s ability to manage product transitions; • other intangible asset write-downs; • decreases in the average selling prices of SiRF’s products; • SiRF’s ability to fully realize the impact of its announced restructuring plans and cost reduction efforts; • fluctuations in litigation expenses; and • fluctuations and estimations inherent in predicting SiRF’s effective income tax rates. In addition, SiRF has a lengthy sales process in some of its target markets and its sales cycles typically range from nine months to two years, depending on the market. Even if SiRF has a design win, it may never result in volume shipments. It is possible that SiRF may not generate sufficient, if any, revenue from these products to offset the cost of selling and completing the design work. Because of this lengthy sales cycle, SiRF may experience delays from the time it increases or decreases its operating expenses and its investments in committing capacity until the time that it generates revenue from these products. As a result, it is difficult for SiRF to adjust its cost structure in relation to the variability in its revenue. Further, it is difficult for SiRF to predict demand change due to customers’ reaction to the current litigation, the ITC Final Determination and the current economic environment. If SiRF is unable to accurately forecast demand for its products, this could result in a write-down of its inventory value. In addition, under the ITC Final Determination, the ITC issued a Limited Exclusion Order prohibiting unlicensed entry of infringing products into the U.S. by or on behalf of SiRF or the Named Respondents and Cease and Desist Orders prohibiting SiRF and the domestic Named Respondents from importing or selling in the United States SiRF’s products that may be found to infringe any asserted patent. If U.S. Customs does not approve for importation SiRF’s products containing the new versions of its software into the U.S., SiRF’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely effected. Even if U.S. Customs approves for importation SiRF’s products containing the new versions of its software, customers may choose not to order SiRF’s products. SiRF bases its planned operating expenses in part on its expectations of future revenue, and its expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than SiRF expects, SiRF may be unable to proportionately reduce its operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm its operating results for that quarter. SiRF has derived a substantial majority of its net revenue from sales to the automotive, mobile phone and consumer device markets. If SiRF fails to generate continued revenue from these markets or from additional markets, SiRF’s net revenue could decline. SiRF believes that over 90% of its net revenue during 2008 and 2007 was attributable to products that were eventually incorporated into the automotive, including portable navigation devices, mobile phone and consumer device markets. Consumer spending and the demand for SiRF’s products in these markets are currently in rapid decline. If SiRF cannot sustain or increase sales of its products in these markets or if it fails to generate revenue from additional markets, its net revenue could further substantially decrease. 24 Table of Contents The market price of SiRF’s common stock is volatile. The volatility may mean that, at times, SiRF’s stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above the price at which they acquired them. The stock market in general and SiRF’s common stock in particular have recently experienced significant price and volume volatility. SiRF’s common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to many factors, including but not limited to, the pending merger with CSR, fluctuations in its operating results, announcements regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by it or its competitors, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts, and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. SiRF’s stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for its stock, changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market trends unrelated to its performance. Technology stocks have experienced wide fluctuations in prices, which sometimes have been unrelated to their operating performance. The market price of SiRF’s common stock could be adversely affected by these factors and fluctuations. Declines in the market price of SiRF’s common stock could affect its access to capital, which may impact its ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, declines in the price of SiRF’s common stock may harm employee morale and retention, curtail investment opportunities presented to it, and negatively impact other aspects of its business. As a result of any such declines, stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above the price at which they acquired them. If SiRF fails to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Global Select Market requirements, SiRF’s stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of SiRF’s common stock and harm its businesses. SiRF’s common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “SIRF.” If SiRF fails to meet any of the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, its common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, including a $1.00 minimum closing bid price. Nasdaq has suspended the minimum $1.00 closing bid price rule through Friday, April 17, 2009. The rule is scheduled to be reinstated on Monday, April 20, 2009. SiRF’s stock price has traded at or below $1.00 per share in the recent past. If SiRF’s stock price trades below $1.00 as of April 20, 2009, there can be no assurance that Nasdaq will not take action to enforce its listing requirements. If SiRF’s common stock were to be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market, it could apply to list its common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market or Nasdaq Capital Market, or its common stock could be traded in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Any delisting could adversely affect the market price of, and liquidity of the trading market for, SiRF’s common stock, SiRF’s ability to obtain financing for the continuation of its operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. SiRF’s future success depends on building relationships with customers that are market leaders. If SiRF cannot establish these relationships, if these customers cannot successfully sell their products incorporating SiRF’s technology or if these customers develop their own systems or adopt competitors’ products instead of buying SiRF’s products, SiRF’s business may not succeed. SiRF intends to continue to pursue customers who are leaders in its target markets. SiRF may not succeed in establishing these relationships because these companies may develop their own systems or adopt one of its competitors’ products. These relationships often require SiRF to develop new premium software which involves 25 Table of Contents significant technological challenges. These types of customers also frequently place considerable pressure on SiRF to meet their tight development schedules. SiRF may have to devote a substantial amount of its limited resources to these relationships, which could detract from or delay its completion of other important development projects. Delays in development of these projects could impair SiRF’s relationships with other customers and could negatively impact sales of products under development. Furthermore, since the issuance of the ITC Initial Determination, SiRF has experienced a decrease in demand for its products. If the President of the United States does not disapprove the ITC Final Determination, SiRF may have to devote additional time working with potential customers to provide products that comply with the ITC Final Determination. Even if these new products are compliant with the ITC Final Determination, potential customers may not ultimately select SiRF’s technology. Even if a customer selects SiRF’s technology to incorporate into its product, the customer may not ultimately market and sell its product successfully. A cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause SiRF to lose anticipated sales. Also, SiRF’s business and operating results could suffer if a significant customer reduces or delays orders during its sales cycle or chooses not to release products containing SiRF’s technology. SiRF faces the risk that the value of its inventory may decline before it is sold or that its inventory may not be able to be sold at the anticipated prices. On December 27, 2008, SiRF’s total valued inventory was $16.4 million. SiRF’s inventory may decline in value as a result of technological obsolescence or a change in the product. SiRF’s success depends in part on its ability to minimize the cost to purchase or produce inventory and rapidly sell its inventory. The failure to quickly sell inventory may require SiRF to sell such inventory at a discount or loss or may require SiRF to write down its value, which could result in significant losses and decreases in SiRF’s cash flows. Due to the current economic conditions and the potential customer uncertainty as a result of the ITC Final Determination, it is increasingly difficult to forecast demand and, if future demand or market conditions for SiRF’s products are less favorable than forecasted, or if unforeseen technological changes negatively impact the utility of component inventory, SiRF may be required to record additional write-downs which could negatively impact gross margins in the period when the write-downs are recorded. SiRF may be required to record a significant additional charge to earnings if SiRF’s identified intangible assets become impaired. SiRF has recorded a substantial amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, as a result of its recent acquisitions. For example, in 2007, SiRF recorded $76.0 million of intangibles and $160.8 million of goodwill in connection with its acquisition of Centrality. SiRF is required to evaluate goodwill and other intangibles for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows and, with respect to goodwill, on at least an annual basis. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of SiRF’s intangible assets may not be recoverable include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in SiRF’s stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. As a result of SiRF’s impairment analysis in the second quarter of 2008, it recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $215.7 million and acquisition-related intangible asset impairment charge of $42.9 million. SiRF also recorded $1.4 million in additional impairment related to certain restructuring activities. See Note 12, Restructuring, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8 under Part II in this report for further information. If SiRF’s estimates for future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, expected periods over which its assets will be utilized and other variables declines further than current estimates, SiRF may need to further write down intangible asset values to their fair values. These further impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on SiRF’s operating results and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents SiRF’s operating results depend significantly on sales of its SiRFstarIII and SiRFatlas product lines and its ability to develop and achieve market acceptance of new GPS products. Sales of SiRF’s SiRFstarIII and its SiRFatlas product lines significantly contributed to its revenue in 2008. SiRF continues to invest in the development of next generation products, but there is no assurance that these future products will achieve market acceptance. If SiRF fails to develop or achieve market acceptance of new GPS products or other multifunction products, it will continue to depend on sales of its SiRFstarIII and SiRFatlas product lines which have declining average selling prices over time. In addition, SiRF is involved in patent infringement litigation with Broadcom before the ITC and federal court. In the ITC litigation, SiRF and the Named Respondents are subject to a Limited Exclusion Order prohibiting the unlicensed entry into the United States of certain SiRFstarIII software that the ITC found to infringe Broadcom’s patents. SiRF and the domestic Named Respondents are also subject to Cease and Desist Orders in the ITC litigation. SiRF has released new versions of its SiRFstarIII software that it believes to be non-infringing. SiRF has not obtained approval to date from U.S. Customs for the importation into the United States of products containing this new SiRFstarIII software. If SiRF is unable to obtain such approval or if the new SiRFstarIII software is found to be infringing, SiRF’s business could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that Broadcom will not seek to bring an enforcement action against SiRF alleging violations of the Limited Exclusion Order or the Cease and Desist Orders. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, under Part I of this report for further information. Any decline in sales of SiRF’s SiRFstarIII and SiRFatlas product lines or decreases in average selling prices could adversely affect SiRF’s net revenue and operating results. SiRF’s operating results will depend significantly on sales of its products in the wireless market. SiRF expects to derive a significant portion of future revenue from sales of its products within the wireless market. SiRF’s success will depend both on the growth of this emerging market and on its ability to compete effectively in the wireless market as it evolves. SiRF’s margins on sales of products in the wireless market differ from its margins on sales of products in the automotive market, which historically has been the largest contributor to its revenue mix. If the wireless market does not achieve the growth SiRF expects, the growth and success of its business could be limited. In addition, if SiRF does not timely deliver new wireless-based products or if these products do not achieve market acceptance, its net revenue and operating results may not increase as anticipated or may decline. The market for GPS-based location awareness capabilities in high-volume consumer and commercial applications is emerging and, if this market does not develop as quickly as SiRF expects, the growth and success of SiRF’s business will be limited. The market for GPS-based location awareness technology in high-volume consumer and commercial applications is continually evolving and its potential is uncertain. Many of these GPS-based applications have not been commercially introduced or have not achieved widespread acceptance. SiRF’s success depends on the rapid development of this market. SiRF cannot predict the growth rate, if any, of this market. The development of this market depends on several factors, including government mandates such as E911 mandate in the United States and E110 mandate in Japan, the development of location awareness infrastructure by wireless network operators and the availability of location-aware content and services. If the market for high-volume consumer and commercial GPS-based applications fails to develop in a timely manner, the growth and success of SiRF’s business may be limited. If SiRF is unable to fund the development of new products to keep pace with rapid technological change, SiRF will be unable to expand its business and maintain its market position. The market for high-volume consumer and commercial GPS-based applications and other technologies that SiRF is developing is characterized by rapidly changing technology, such as low power or smaller form factors. This requires SiRF to continuously develop new products and enhancements for existing products to keep pace 27 Table of Contents with evolving industry standards and rapidly changing customer requirements. For example, many of SiRF’s customers are looking for very highly integrated products with multiple functions and multiple radio technologies. SiRF may not have the financial resources necessary to fund future innovations. If SiRF is unable to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new products and enhance existing products, it may not be able to compete successfully in its markets. Some of SiRF’s customers could become its competitors. Many of SiRF’s customers are also large integrated circuit suppliers and some of its large customers already have GPS expertise in-house. These large customers have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition, and a larger base of customers than SiRF does. The process of licensing SiRF’s technology to and support of such customers entails the transfer of technology that may enable them to become a source of competition to it, despite its efforts to protect its intellectual property rights. SiRF cannot sell to some customers who compete with it. In addition, SiRF competes with divisions within some of its customers. For example, ST-Ericcson, a customer of SiRF, has internally developed a GPS solution for the automotive market in which SiRF competes. Further, each new design by a customer presents a competitive situation. In the past, SiRF has lost design wins to divisions within its customers and this may occur again in the future. SiRF cannot assure you that these customers will not continue to compete with it, that they will continue to be its customers or that they will continue to license products from it at the same volumes. Competition could increase pressure on SiRF to lower its prices and could negatively impact its profit margins. SiRF has relied, and expects to continue to rely, on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of its net revenue, and its net revenue could decline due to the delay or loss of significant customer orders. SiRF expects that a small number of customers may constitute a significant portion of its net revenue for the foreseeable future. SiRF had two customers that each accounted for 10% or more of its net revenue in each 2008 and 2007, and three customers that each accounted for 10% or more of its revenue in 2006. In 2008, Promate and Elcoteq collectively accounted for 37% of SiRF’s net revenue. In 2007, Promate and Garmin collectively accounted for 45% of SiRF’s net revenue. In 2006, Promate, Garmin and Gateway collectively accounted for 68% of SiRF’s net revenue. If SiRF fails to successfully sell its products to one or more of its significant customers in any particular period, or if a large customer purchases fewer of its products, defers orders, fails to place additional orders with it or fails to continue operating as a going concern, its net revenue could decline, and its operating results may not meet market expectations. In addition, SiRF designs some of its products to incorporate customer specifications. If SiRF’s customers purchase fewer products than anticipated or it loses a customer, it may not be able to sell these products to other customers, which would result in excess inventory and could negatively impact its operating results. SiRF’s distributors account for a significant percentage of its net revenue and its reliance on third-party distributors subjects it to risks that could negatively impact its business. SiRF markets and sells its products directly and through third-party distributors pursuant to agreements that can generally be terminated for convenience by either party upon prior notice to the other party. These agreements are non-exclusive and permit SiRF’s distributors to offer its competitors’ products. In addition, SiRF’s third-party distributors have been a significant factor in its ability to increase sales of its products. SiRF had one distributor, Promate, that accounted for approximately 21%, 32% and 48% of its net revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, SiRF is dependent on its distributors to supplement its direct marketing and sales efforts. If a significant distributor terminated its relationship with SiRF or decided to market SiRF’s competitors’ products over SiRF’s products, this could have an adverse impact on SiRF’s ability to bring its products to market. 28 Table of Contents Additionally, distributors typically maintain an inventory of SiRF’s products. In most instances, SiRF’s agreements with distributors protect their inventory of SiRF’s products against price reductions. Some agreements with SiRF’s distributors also contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. SiRF defers the gross margins on its sales to distributors, resulting from both its deferral of revenue and related product costs, until the applicable products are re-sold by the distributors. However, in the event of decline in the price of SiRF’s products, the price protection rights it offers to its distributors could adversely affect it because its revenue and product margin would decline. Furthermore, in some cases, SiRF’s distributors’ ability to order products may be limited by their credit line or other financial limitations, which could also adversely affect SiRF’s revenue. SiRF derives a substantial portion of its revenue from international sales and conducts a significant portion of its business internationally, and economic, political and other risks may harm its international operations and cause its net revenue to decline. SiRF derived approximately 81%, 88% and 85% of its net revenue from international sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. International sales to the Asia-Pacific region accounted for approximately 63%, 81% and 79% of its net revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. International sales to the Asia-Pacific region decreased as a percentage of total revenue in 2008 compared to 2007 due to a weaker demand from several of SiRF’s customers in that region. A significant amount of SiRF’s business is international and its products are sold into markets that are very price sensitive. Tariffs on SiRF’s products and other trade restrictions in some countries could significantly impact its business. Additional risks it faces in conducting business internationally include: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • development of regional standards and infrastructure that could reduce the demand for SiRF’s products, such as the emergence of a new satellite navigation system in that region; • difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations as well as cultural differences; • international terrorism, particularly in emerging markets; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • potentially adverse tax consequences, such as withholding tax obligations on license revenue that SiRF may not be able to offset fully against its United States tax obligations, including the further risk that foreign tax authorities may recharacterize license fees or increase tax rates, which could result in increased tax withholdings and penalties; • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights, particularly in emerging markets; • inadequate local infrastructure and transportation delays; • financial risks, such as longer sales and payment cycles, greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange and rate fluctuations; • failure by SiRF or its customers to gain regulatory approval for use of its products; and • political and economic instability, including wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other business restrictions. Also, there may be reluctance in some foreign markets to purchase products based on GPS technology, due to the control of GPS by the United States government. Any of these factors could significantly harm SiRF’s future international sales and operations and, consequently, its business. 29 Table of Contents Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may affect SiRF’s revenue and, as a result, its operating results could be adversely affected. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Typically SiRF experiences the highest demand for its products in the third and fourth quarter of each year, with the lowest demand being in the first quarter of each year. For example, for the first quarter of 2008, SiRF’s revenue was down by 38%, as compared to its revenue in the fourth quarter of 2007. However, SiRF did not experience an increase in revenue during the third and fourth quarters of 2008, which SiRF believes was due to macroeconomic conditions. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories and declines in general economic conditions. This cyclicality could cause SiRF’s operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. In addition to the sale of chip sets, SiRF’s business depends on the volume of production by its technology licensees, which, in turn, depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors. As a result, if SiRF is unable to control its expenses adequately in response to lower revenue from its chip set customers and technology licensees, its operating results could suffer and it could experience operating losses. SiRF’s adoption of a restructuring plan may cause disruptions in its business and operations and will result in restructuring and other charges. In response to the continued economic uncertainties, increased competition and expected continuing consumer demand weakness in the first half of the year, SiRF adopted a restructuring plan in March 2008 to better align its resources with its current business objectives. As part of this restructuring plan, SiRF reduced its workforce and cancelled and reprioritized certain engineering projects. After having made considerable investments on the development of its mobile TV technology, SiRF stopped further product development in the mobile TV space. Most of the engineers associated with this project were reassigned to SiRF’s other core technology development programs. In July 2008, SiRF announced further restructuring efforts that included reductions in force and reprioritization of certain engineering projects. SiRF announced even further restructuring efforts in December 2008 that included additional reductions in force and further reprioritization of additional engineering projects. After having made considerable investments on the development of Bluetooth technology, SiRF stopped further product development in Bluetooth technology. This restructuring may divert the attention of some of SiRF’s management from business and operational issues and may affect product development or marketing plans or schedules. If SiRF did not choose the correct strategy and investments for its restructuring, or if it is unable to execute effectively on the new strategy, it may not be able to meet the needs of its customers for products and services. SiRF must effectively manage the implementation of the restructuring plan to avoid any resulting confusion or conflict that might affect its ability to effectively respond to its customers’ needs, which could negatively impact its business, results of operations and financial condition. SiRF’s products are becoming more complex and defects in its products could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. SiRF’s products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. With some of SiRF’s acquisitions it has expanded into even more complex technologies that have required or may continue to require a significant investment of resources to be successful. Products as complex as SiRF’s may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. For example, SiRF’s products may contain errors, which are not detected until after they are shipped because it cannot test for all possible scenarios. In addition, errors or defects in SiRF’s server software could cause its customers to experience a loss of network service affecting end-users. As SiRF’s products become more complex, it faces significantly higher research and development risks and risk of undetected defects. In addition, as SiRF’s components become more complex it may be limited in the number of products that can utilize these 30 Table of Contents components. While SiRF’s historical warranty costs have not been significant, any errors or defects in its products, or the perception that there may be errors or defects in its products, could result in customers’ rejection of its products, damage to its reputation, a decline in its stock price, lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims. The warranty provisions in SiRF’s agreements with some customers expose it to risks from product liability claims. SiRF’s agreements with some customers contain limited warranty provisions, which provide the customer with a right to damages if a defect is traced to SiRF’s products or if SiRF cannot correct errors reported during the warranty period. While SiRF’s historical warranty costs have not been material, if in the future its contractual limitations are unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction or if it is exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a successful claim could require it to pay substantial damages. Recent changes to SiRF’s senior management could negatively affect its operations and relationships with manufacturers, customers and employees. Recent changes in SiRF’s senior management could negatively affect its operations and its relationships with its manufacturers, third-party subcontractors, customers, employees and market leaders. Effective on April 17, 2008, Diosdado P. Banatao, a founder and chairman of SiRF’s board of directors, was appointed Executive Chairman and assumed the role of Interim Chief Executive Officer. In April 2008, SiRF also hired Adam Dolinko as General Counsel. Effective September 17, 2008, the Board appointed Dennis Bencala, then-Senior Director of Investor Relations, as Chief Financial Officer, appointed Michael Kelly, then-Director of North American Sales, as Vice President, Sales and appointed Al Heshmati as Vice President, Software Engineering. Further, SiRF’s Chief Technology Officer resigned effective March 14, 2008 and Rob Baxter, SiRF’s Senior Vice President, resigned effective February 27, 2009. If the integration of new officers or departure of members of SiRF’s senior management team does not go as smoothly as anticipated, it could affect its ability to successfully implement its business objectives and could negatively affect its business and financial performance. Because competition for qualified personnel is intense in SiRF’s industry and in its geographic regions, SiRF may not be able to recruit and retain necessary personnel, which could impact the development or sales of its products. SiRF’s success will depend on its ability to attract and retain senior management, engineering, sales, marketing and other key personnel, such as communications systems experts, GPS systems and algorithm experts, software developers and radio frequency hardware design engineers. While the economic downturn has resulted in an increase of available personnel, there is still often intense competition for these personnel, particularly in the San Francisco Bay area, Los Angeles area and Phoenix area in the United States, in Noida, India, in Beijing and Shanghai, China, and Singapore. SiRF may be unable to attract and retain key technical and managerial personnel. In addition, SiRF’s announced reduction in force and the recently announced proposed merger could make attracting and retaining qualified personnel more difficult in the future. If SiRF is unable to retain its existing personnel or attract and train additional qualified personnel, its growth may be limited due to its lack of capacity to develop and market its products. All of SiRF’s key employees are employed on an “at will” basis. The loss of any of these key employees could slow its product development processes and sales efforts or harm investors’ perception of its business. SiRF may also incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for key personnel. Part of SiRF’s business uses a royalty-based business model, which has inherent risks. Although a substantial majority of SiRF’s net revenue is derived from sales of its chip sets and SoCs, in recent periods it has had a portion of its net revenue from large customers in the wireless markets come from royalties paid by licensees of its technology. Royalty payments are based on the number of semiconductor chips 31 Table of Contents shipped which contain SiRF’s GPS technology or its premium software. For SiRF’s server software, royalties may be based on the number of subscribers or on transaction volumes. SiRF depends on its ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties. License royalty revenue represented 4%, 2% and 3% of SiRF’s net revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. If a significant licensee terminates its relationship with SiRF, demands price reductions, decides to adopt its competitors’ technology over SiRF’s technology or if SiRF is unable to negotiate and renew existing agreements with significant licensees, SiRF’s royalty revenue, gross margins and net income could be adversely impacted. SiRF faces risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of its control, including, but not limited to, the following: • the rate of adoption and incorporation of its technology by wireless handset makers and wireless infrastructure vendors; • fluctuations in volumes and prices at which licensees sell products that incorporate its technology; • the demand for products incorporating its licensed technology; and • the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using its licensed technology. In addition, the standard terms of SiRF’s license agreements require its licensees to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate its technology and report this data to it on a quarterly basis. Although SiRF’s standard license terms give it the right to audit books and records of its licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time-consuming and potentially detrimental to its ongoing business relationship with its licensees. As a result, to date, SiRF has relied exclusively on the accuracy of reports supplied by its licensees without independently verifying the information in them. Any significant inaccuracy in the reporting by its licensees or its failure to audit its licensees’ books and records may result in SiRF receiving less royalty revenue than it is entitled to under the terms of its license agreements. SiRF may not obtain sufficient patent protection, which could harm its competitive position and increase its expenses. SiRF’s success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of its proprietary technology. As of December 27, 2008, SiRF had 330 patents granted worldwide. Of this total, SiRF has 201 patents granted in the United States and 129 patents granted in foreign countries, with expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2027, along with 173 pending patent applications in the United States and 202 pending foreign patent applications. SiRF’s patent applications may not provide protection for all competitive aspects of its technology or may not result in issued patents. Any patents issued may provide only limited protection for its technology and the rights that may be granted under any future patents that may be issued may not provide competitive advantages to it. Also, patent protection in foreign countries may be limited or unavailable where SiRF needs this protection. It is possible that SiRF’s competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around its patents and competitors could also successfully challenge any issued patent. SiRF may also choose not to pursue all instances of patent infringement. SiRF relies upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect its proprietary rights and, if these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm its ability to compete and generate revenue. SiRF relies on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect its proprietary rights. SiRF’s ability to compete and grow its business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. SiRF seeks to protect its source code for its software, and design code for its chip sets, and documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. SiRF licenses its software and IP cores under signed license agreements, which impose restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software and IP cores. SiRF also seeks to avoid disclosure of its intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to its proprietary 32 Table of Contents information to execute confidentiality agreements. There can be no assurance that the steps SiRF has taken to protect its proprietary information will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of its technology or that its proprietary rights will adequately protected because: • laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of its technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and • policing unauthorized use of its intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and it may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. SiRF may have difficulty in protecting its intellectual property rights in foreign countries, which could increase the cost of doing business or cause its revenue to decline. SiRF’s intellectual property is used in a large number of foreign countries. There are many countries, particularly in emerging markets, in which SiRF has no issued patents, or that may have reduced intellectual property protection. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for SiRF to protect its intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. As SiRF increases its international sales, it may be more difficult to protect its intellectual property rights. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of its proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from its technologies without paying it for doing so, which would harm its competitive position and market share. For example, if SiRF’s foundries lose control of SiRF’s intellectual property, it would be more difficult for SiRF to take remedial measures because the foundries are primarily located in countries that have less protection for intellectual property that is provided in the United States. Furthermore, SiRF expects this to become a greater problem for it as its technology licensees increase their manufacturing in countries which provide less protection for intellectual property. SiRF’s inability to enforce its intellectual property rights in some countries may harm its business. SiRF’s intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact its business. SiRF has agreed to indemnify some customers for certain costs and damages of intellectual property infringement in some circumstances. This practice may subject SiRF to significant indemnification claims by its customers or others. In addition to indemnification claims by its customers, it may also have to defend related third-party infringement claims made directly against it. In some instances, its GPS products are designed for use in devices used by potentially millions of consumers, such as cellular telephones, and its server software is placed on servers providing wireless network services to end-users, both of which could subject it to considerable exposure should an infringement claim occur. In the past, SiRF has received notice from a major customer informing it that this customer received notice from one of SiRF’s competitors that the inclusion of SiRF’s chip sets into SiRF’s customer’s products requires the payment of patent license fees to the competitor. SiRF may receive similar notices from its customers or directly from its competitors in the future. SiRF cannot assure you that such claims will not be pursued or that these claims, if pursued, would not harm its business. SiRF depends primarily on a few independent foundries to manufacture substantially all of its current products, and any failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity could significantly delay its ability to ship its products and damage its customer relationships. SiRF does not own or operate a fabrication facility. It relies on third parties to manufacture its semiconductor products. Four outside foundries, IBM in the United States, Samsung in South Korea, STMicroelectronics in Italy and France and TSMC in Taiwan, currently manufacture substantially all of its products. Also, in 2007, with the acquisition of Centrality, SiRF began using Global Uni Chip, a design foundry, to provide turnkey solutions for its SoC products. Because SiRF relies on outside foundries, it faces several significant risks, including: • lack of manufacturing capacity and higher prices; 33 Table of Contents • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. Due to the general economic environment, some foundries may not be running at capacity and may shut down production for days at a time or close facilities. These actions may limit the foundries’ capacity to provide SiRF with a sufficient amount of products in a timely manner, if at all. SiRF does not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with any of these foundries and it is difficult to accurately forecast its capacity needs. SiRF does not have long-term agreements with any of these foundries and it places its orders on a purchase order basis, thus its unit or wafer costs are subject to change based on the cyclical demand for semiconductor products. SiRF places its orders on the basis of its customers’ purchase orders and sales forecasts, but the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce SiRF’s deliveries on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than SiRF, or that have long-term agreements with the foundries, may induce SiRF’s foundries to reallocate capacity to them. Any reallocation could impair SiRF’s ability to secure the supply of semiconductors that it needs. Each of SiRF’s semiconductor products is manufactured at only one foundry and, if any one foundry is unable to provide the capacity SiRF needs, SiRF may be delayed in shipping its products, which could damage its customer relationships and result in reduced revenue. Although SiRF substantially uses four outside foundries, each of its semiconductor products is manufactured at one of these foundries. If one of SiRF’s foundries is unable to provide it with capacity as needed, SiRF could experience significant delays delivering the semiconductor product being manufactured for it solely by that foundry. Also, if any of its foundries experiences financial difficulties, if they suffer damage to their facilities or in the event of any other disruption of foundry capacity, SiRF may not be able to qualify an alternative foundry in a timely manner. In addition, any consolidation among the various foundries could impact the affected foundries’ product capacity or its collective ability to continue to manufacture one or more of SiRF’s products. If SiRF chooses to use a new foundry or process for a particular semiconductor product, it believes that it would take it several months to qualify the new foundry or process before it could begin shipping products. If SiRF is unable to accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, it may experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products. The facilities of certain independent foundries upon which SiRF relies to manufacture all of its semiconductors are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risk and social upheaval. Certain outside foundries and their subcontractors upon which SiRF relies to manufacture most of its semiconductors are located in countries that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risks and social upheavals. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in these countries could materially disrupt these foundries’ production capabilities and could result in SiRF experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of its products. In addition, these facilities are subject to risks associated with uncertain political, economic and other conditions in Asia, such as political turmoil in the region, which could disrupt the operation of these foundries and in turn harm SiRF’s business. For example, South Korea is a neighboring state to North Korea, which is currently in discussions with the United States and other countries regarding its nuclear weapons program. Any geographical or social upheaval in these countries could materially disrupt the production capabilities of SiRF’s foundries and could result in SiRF experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or a substantial shortage of, SiRF’s products. SiRF depends on a sole supplier for some critical components. SiRF purchases certain critical components, such as NOR flash memory technology, from a single supplier. The loss of this supplier, disruption of the supply chain, or delays or changes in the design cycle time could result 34 Table of Contents in delays in the manufacture and shipment of products, additional expense associated with obtaining a new supplier, impaired margins, reduced production volumes, strained customer relations and loss of business or could otherwise harm SiRF’s results of operations. SiRF places binding manufacturing orders based on its forecasts and, if it fails to adequately forecast demand for its products, it may incur product shortages or excess product inventory. SiRF’s third-party manufacturers require it to provide forecasts of its anticipated manufacturing orders and place binding manufacturing orders in advance of receiving purchase orders from its customers. This may result in product shortages or excess product inventory because SiRF cannot easily increase or decrease its manufacturing orders. Obtaining additional supply in the face of product shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in the short-term, which could prevent SiRF from fulfilling orders. In addition, SiRF’s chip sets have rapidly declining average selling prices. As a result, an incorrect forecast may result in substantial product in inventory that is aged and obsolete, which could result in write-downs of excess or obsolete inventory. SiRF’s failure to adequately forecast demand for its products could cause its quarterly operating results to fluctuate and cause its stock price to decline. SiRF may experience lower than expected manufacturing yields, which would delay the production of its semiconductor products. The manufacture of semiconductors is a highly complex process. Minute impurities can cause a substantial number of wafers to be rejected or cause numerous die on a wafer to be nonfunctional. Semiconductor companies often encounter difficulties in achieving acceptable product yields from their manufacturers. SiRF’s foundries have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, including for SiRF’s products. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start up of new process technologies. SiRF may also experience yield problems as it migrates its manufacturing processes to smaller geometries. If SiRF does not achieve planned yields, its product costs could increase, and product availability would decrease. The loss of any of SiRF’s primary third-party subcontractors that assemble and test all of its current products could disrupt its shipments, harm its customer relationships and reduce its sales. SiRF relies on a limited number of primary third-party subcontractors to assemble and test all of its current chip sets either for its foundries or directly for it. As a result, SiRF does not directly control its product delivery schedules, assembly and testing costs or quality assurance and control. If any of these subcontractors experience capacity constraints or financial difficulties, if any subcontractor suffers any damage to its facilities or if there is any other disruption of assembly and testing capacity, SiRF may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. SiRF typically does not have long-term agreements with any of these subcontractors. SiRF typically procures services from these suppliers on a per-order basis. Because of the amount of time that it usually takes SiRF to qualify assemblers and testers, it could experience significant delays in product shipments if it is required to find alternative assemblers or testers for its semiconductor products. Any problems that SiRF may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of its products could damage its reputation and result in a loss of customers. The GPS market could be subject to governmental and other regulations that may increase SiRF’s cost of doing business or decrease demand for its products. GPS technology is restricted and its export is controlled. SiRF’s business may be impacted by both domestic and international regulations because its technology relies on the GPS satellite network and radio frequency bands. For example, the United States government may restrict specific uses of GPS technology in some applications for privacy or other reasons and block the civilian GPS signal at any time or in hostile areas. In 35 Table of Contents December 2004, the now former President of the United States authorized a new national policy that established guidance and implementation actions for space-based positioning, navigation, timing programs, augmentations and activities for United States national and homeland security, civil, scientific, and commercial purposes. In addition, radio frequency bands are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency bands are made by the International Telecommunications Union, a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are also governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and are subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Further, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, continually receives proposals for new technologies and services that may seek to operate in, or across, the radio frequency bands currently used by GPS and other public services. These types of regulations as well as other actions, may limit the growth of the GPS market, such as: • changes in the United States government policy for the use of GPS without charge; • reallocation of radio frequency bands, including frequency band segmentation or spectrum sharing, which may negatively affect the utility and reliability of GPS-based products; • adverse decisions by the FCC that result in harmful interference to the delivery of the GPS signals, such as permitting the operation of ultra-wideband radio devices, which may harm the utility and reliability of GPS-based products thereby reducing demand for GPS-based products; • changes in the United States government policy to maintain GPS satellites over a long period of time; and • a reduction in the number of operating satellites, which would impair the operations or utility of GPS. SiRF also faces various risks associated with its dependence on GPS satellites and radio frequency bands, including: • electronic and mechanical failures or sabotage of satellites; • substantial delays in replacing inoperable satellites with new satellites, if replaced at all, as repairing damaged or malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible; • disruptions in the GPS satellite network; and • unwanted emissions from mobile satellite services and other equipment operating in adjacent frequency bands or inband, which may negatively affect the utility and reliability of GPS-based products. Governmental and other regulations or actions could interrupt or increase SiRF’s cost of doing business, which may have a material negative effect on its business. Personal privacy concerns may limit the growth of the high-volume consumer and commercial GPS-based applications and demand for SiRF’s products. GPS-based consumer and commercial applications rely on the ability to receive, analyze and store location information. Consumers may not accept some GPS applications because of the fact that their location can be tracked by others and that this information could be collected and stored. Also, federal and state governments may disallow specific uses of GPS technology for privacy or other reasons or could subject this industry to regulation. If consumers view GPS-based applications as a threat to their privacy, demand for some GPS-based products could decline. 36 Table of Contents SiRF may continue to evaluate acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses in the future, and it may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. As part of SiRF’s business strategy, it may evaluate acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary technologies and businesses. In 2006, SiRF acquired TrueSpan Incorporated, a development-stage technology company with significant communications systems expertise and, in August 2007, it acquired Centrality Communications Inc., a privately-held developer of navigation processor solutions for mobile navigation systems, which is the largest acquisition completed by SiRF to date. In the future, SiRF may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities or be able to make these acquisitions or investments on a commercially reasonable basis, or at all. If SiRF is unable to identify and successfully complete suitable acquisitions or investments, it may be required to expand its internal research and development efforts, which could harm its competitive position or result in negative market perception. Any acquisition or investment could have several risks, including: • SiRF’s inability to successfully integrate acquired technologies, product lines or operations; • diversion of management’s attention; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities; • expenses related to amortization of intangible assets; • potential write-offs of acquired assets; • risk of project delays; • failure to achieve projected results of the acquisition; • loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and • SiRF’s inability to recover the costs of acquisitions or investments. SiRF may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment. Future acquisitions may require it to make investments upfront, and there is no assurance that such investments will retain their value or positively contribute to its financial results. Further, the integration of certain operations following any acquisition will require the dedication of significant management resources, which could distract management’s attention from SiRF’s day-to-day business. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could adversely affect SiRF’s business and results of operations. SiRF’s ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and its failure to raise capital when needed could prevent it from executing its growth strategy. SiRF believes that its existing cash, investments, amounts available under its bank line of credit and cash generated from operating activities will be sufficient to meet its anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. The timing and amount of its working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: • market acceptance of its products; • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel; and • SiRF’s ability to obtain financing, if necessary. 37 Table of Contents If SiRF’s capital resources are insufficient to satisfy its liquidity requirements, it may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to its stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict its operations. SiRF has not made arrangements to obtain additional financing, and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to it, if at all. If SiRF fails to maintain proper and effective internal controls, its ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect its operating results, its ability to operate its business and its stock price. During the course of SiRF’s testing of its internal controls, it may identify, and have to disclose, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal controls that will have to be remediated. For example, in SiRF’s quarterly report for the third quarter of 2008, SiRF disclosed a material weakness in its tax accounting process. Implementing any appropriate changes to its internal controls may require specific compliance training of its directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify its existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of its internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase its operating costs and could materially impair its ability to operate its business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that SiRF’s internal controls are inadequate or that it is unable to produce accurate financial statements may negatively affect its stock price. Changes to financial accounting standards or United States generally accepted accounting principles may affect SiRF’s results of operations and cause it to change its business practices. SiRF prepares its financial statements to conform with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change to GAAP or related policies can have a significant effect on SiRF’s reported results and may affect its reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect SiRF’s reported financial results or the way it conducts its business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 38 Table of Contents 