D. Risk Factors. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cashflow could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading prices of our shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In addition to the risks listed below, risks not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and affect your investment. Recent financial and credit crises and recessionary economies around the world have had, and may continue to have, adverse effects on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations During 2008, particularly the second half of the year, the business environment was extremely adverse. Despite signs of recovery in the first half of 2009, the business environment remains extremely uncertain in the 4 Table of Contents medium to long term. Starting in mid-2007 in the United States and Europe, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and global securities markets were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages in the U.S. market, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. While the markets have generally stabilized and improved over the course of 2009, the values of many asset classes have not returned to previous levels. Further, the markets have been facing new challenges arising out of concerns over certain sovereign risks and our business environment remains extremely uncertain in the medium to long term. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions, primarily in the United States. Financial institution failures or problems have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults on derivatives and other contracts entered into with such entities. The geographic reach of such consequences has extended globally. In addition, the United States, large parts of Europe and Japan have experienced a significant downturn in their economies as a whole. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions continues to be significantly reduced and many companies continue to be in serious difficulty due to the lack of demand for their products or services, primarily due to significantly reduced consumer spending, lack of liquidity in the credit markets and high unemployment rates. Any failure to achieve desired results from the recent government aid or stimulus programs around the world, or any phase-out or termination of such programs, could further adversely affect our business environment. In response to these challenges in the business environment, we have been implementing several strategic initiatives. We are seeking to expand our client base, focusing on growing market share in client-driven flow businesses and continuing to review and reduce asset size through targeted disposition of assets not suited to our business focus. We are implementing cost reduction through selective downsizing with a concentration on core businesses in the short-term, as well as reengineering our business processes in the longer-term. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to carry out any of these strategic initiatives or that, even if they are carried out, they will have the intended effect or will be effective in addressing the difficulties we have or we may have under the current business environment. Also, there can be no assurance that the economic environment will not worsen in the future (as exemplified by the Greek debt crisis that manifested in the first half of calendar year 2010, adversely affecting the credibility of the euro currency and fostering financial doubts with regards to other countries), in which case our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Market fluctuations could harm our businesses Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions in Japan and elsewhere around the world. Market downturns can occur not only as a result of purely economic factors, but also as a result of war, acts of terrorism, international tensions, natural disasters or other similar events. A sustained market downturn can adversely affect our business and can result in substantial losses. Even in the absence of a prolonged market downturn, we may incur substantial losses due to market volatility or governmental fiscal and monetary policy changes in Japan and other jurisdictions where we conduct business. Our brokerage and asset management revenues may decline A market downturn could result in a decline in the revenues concerning our intermediary business because of a decline in the volume and value of securities that we broker for our clients. Also, with regard to our asset management business, in most cases, we charge fees for managing our clients’ portfolios that are based on the value of their portfolios. A market downturn that reduces the value of our clients’ portfolios, increases the amount of withdrawals or reduces the amount of new investments in these portfolios would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management businesses. 5 Table of Contents Our investment banking revenues may decline Unfavorable financial or economic conditions would likely reduce the number and size of transactions for which we provide securities underwriting, financial advisory and other investment banking services. Our investment banking revenues, which include fees from these services, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would therefore decrease if there is a sustained market downturn. We may incur significant losses from our trading and investment activities We maintain large trading and investment positions in fixed income, equity and other markets, both for our own account and for the purpose of facilitating our clients’ trades. Our positions consist of various types of assets, including financial derivatives transactions in equity, interest rate, currency, credit, commodity and other markets, as well as in loans and real estate. Fluctuations in the markets where these assets are traded can adversely affect the value of these assets. To the extent that we own assets, or have long positions, a market downturn could result in losses if the value of these long positions decreases. Furthermore, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own, or have short positions, an upturn in the prices of the assets could expose us to potentially significant losses. Although we have worked to mitigate these position risks with a variety of hedging techniques, these market movements could result in losses. We can incur losses if the markets move in a way we have not anticipated, as a result of specific events such as the Russian economic crisis in 1998, and the global financial and credit crisis in the autumn of 2008. Also, we may face losses if the level of volatility of the markets where the foregoing assets are traded differs from our expectation, which may occur particularly in the emerging markets. Our businesses have been and may continue to be affected by changes in market volatility levels. Certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. On the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by value at risk, or VaR, and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market-making and proprietary businesses or cause us to reduce the size of these businesses in order to avoid increasing our VaR. Furthermore, we commit capital to take relatively large positions for underwriting or warehousing assets to facilitate certain capital market transactions. Also, we structure and possess pilot funds for developing financial investment products and invest seed money to set up and support financial investment products. We may incur significant losses from these positions in the event of significant market fluctuations. In addition, if we are the party providing collateral in a transaction, significant declines in the value of the collateral can increase our costs and reduce our profitability; and if we are the party receiving collateral, such declines can reduce our profitability by reducing the level of business done with our clients and counterparties. Holding large and concentrated positions of securities and other assets may expose us to large losses Holding a large amount of securities concentrated in specific assets can increase our risks and expose us to large losses in our businesses such as market-making, block trading, underwriting, asset securitization and acquiring newly-issued convertible bonds through third-party allotment. We have committed substantial amounts of capital to these businesses. This often requires us to take large positions in the securities of a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region. In addition, we may incur substantial losses due to market fluctuations on asset-backed securities such as commercial mortgage-backed securities. Extended market declines can reduce liquidity and lead to material losses Extended market declines can reduce the level of market activity and the liquidity of the assets traded in the market. If we cannot properly close out our associated positions, particularly with respect to over-the-counter derivatives, we may incur substantial losses due to the difficulty of monitoring prices in a less liquid market. 6 Table of Contents Our hedging strategies may not prevent losses We use a variety of instruments and strategies to hedge our exposure to various types of risk. If our hedging strategies are not effective, we may incur losses. We base many of our hedging strategies on historical trading patterns and correlations. For example, if we hold an asset, we may hedge this position by taking another asset which has, historically, moved in a direction that would offset a change in value of the former asset. However, historical trading patterns and correlations may not continue, as seen in the case of the global financial and credit crisis in the autumn of 2008, and these hedging strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure because we are exposed to all types of risk in a variety of market environments. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in managing market risk Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon observed historical market behavior. This historical market behavior may not continue in future periods. As a result, we may suffer large losses by being unable to predict future risk exposures that could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods that we use also rely on our evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters, which is publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated, in which case we may be unable to properly assess our risks, and thereby suffer large losses. Furthermore, certain factors, such as market volatility, may render our risk evaluation model unsuitable for the new market environment. In such event, we may become unable to evaluate or otherwise manage our risks adequately. Market risk may increase other risks that we face In addition to the potentially adverse effects on our businesses described above, market risk could exacerbate other risks that we face. For example, the risks associated with new products developed through financial engineering/innovation may be increased by market risk. Also, if we incur substantial trading losses caused by our exposure to market risk, our need for liquidity could rise sharply while our access to cash may be impaired as a result of market perception of our credit risk. Furthermore, in a market downturn, our clients and counterparties could incur substantial losses of their own, thereby weakening their financial condition and, as a result, increasing our credit risk exposure to them. We may have to recognize impairment charges with regard to the amount of goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheets We have purchased all or a part of the equity interests in, or certain operations from, certain other companies in order to pursue our business expansion, and expect to continue to do so when and as we deem appropriate. We account for each of those and similar purchases and acquisitions in conformity with U.S. GAAP, as a business combination, and allocate their acquisition costs to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and record the remaining amount as goodwill. We may have to record impairment charges with regard to the amount of goodwill and intangible assets. Any impairment charges for goodwill or intangible assets we recognize, if recorded, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition Liquidity, or having ready access to cash, is essential to our businesses. In addition to maintaining a readily available cash position, we seek to enhance our liquidity through repurchase and securities lending transactions, 7 Table of Contents access to long-term debt, issuance of long-term bonds, diversification of our short-term funding sources such as commercial paper, and by holding a portfolio of highly liquid assets. We bear the risk that we may lose liquidity under certain circumstances, including the following: We may be unable to access the debt capital markets We depend on continuous access to the short-term credit markets and the debt capital markets to finance our day-to-day operations. An inability to raise money in the long-term or short-term debt markets, or to engage in repurchase agreements and securities lending, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. For example, lenders could refuse to extend the credit necessary for us to conduct our business based on their assessment of our long-term or short-term financial prospects if: • we incur large trading losses, • the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn, or • regulatory authorities take significant action against us. In addition to the above, our ability to borrow in the debt markets could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as increases in banks’ nonperforming loans which reduce their lending capacity, a severe disruption of the financial and credit markets which, among others, can lead to widening credit spreads and thereby increase our borrowing costs, or negative views about the general prospects for the investment banking, brokerage or financial services industries generally. We may be unable to access the short-term debt markets We depend primarily on the issuance of commercial paper and short-term bank loans as a principal source of unsecured short-term funding of our operations. Our liquidity depends largely on our ability to refinance these borrowings on a continuous basis. Investors who hold our outstanding commercial paper and other short-term debt instruments have no obligation to provide refinancing when the outstanding instruments mature. We may be unable to obtain short-term financing from banks to make up any shortfall. We may be unable to sell assets If we are unable to borrow in the debt capital markets or if our cash balances decline significantly, we will need to liquidate our assets or take other actions in order to meet our maturing liabilities. In volatile or uncertain market environments, overall market liquidity may decline. In a time of reduced market liquidity, we may be unable to sell some of our assets, which may adversely affect our liquidity or we may have to sell assets at depressed prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to sell our assets may be impaired by other market participants seeking to sell similar assets into the market at the same time. Lowering of our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. Rating agencies may reduce or withdraw their ratings or place us on “credit watch” with negative implications. This could increase our borrowing costs and limit our access to the capital markets. This, in turn, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our liquidity. Further, other factors which are not specific to us may increase our funding cost, such as negative market perception of Japanese fiscal soundness. Event risk may cause losses in our trading and investment assets as well as market and liquidity risk Event risk refers to potential losses in value we may suffer through unpredictable events that cause large unexpected market price movements. These include not only events such as the Russian economic crisis in 1998, 8 Table of Contents the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001, U.S. subprime issues since 2007, and the global financial and credit crisis in the autumn of 2008, in each case adversely affecting our business, but also more generally the following types of events that could cause losses on our trading and investment assets: • sudden and significant reductions in credit ratings with regard to our trading and investment assets by rating agencies that have significant presence and influence on the market, • sudden changes in trading, tax, accounting, laws and other related rules which may make our trading strategy obsolete, less competitive or not workable, or • an unexpected failure in a corporate transaction in which we participate resulting in our not receiving the consideration we should have received, as well as bankruptcy, deliberate acts of fraud, and criminal prosecution with respect to the issuers of our trading and investment assets. Losses caused by financial or other problems of third parties may expose us to credit risk Our counterparties are from time to time indebted to us as a result of transactions or contracts, including loans, commitments to lend, other contingent liabilities, and derivatives transactions such as swaps and options. We may incur material losses when our counterparties default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, deterioration in their creditworthiness, lack of liquidity, operational failure, an economic or political event, or other reasons. This risk may arise from: • the decline of prices of securities issued by third parties, or • the execution of securities, futures, currency or derivative trades that fail to settle at the required time due to default by the counterparty, such as monoline insurers (financial guarantors) which are counterparties in credit default swap contracts, or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Problems related to third party credit risk may include the following: Defaults by a large financial institution could adversely affect the financial markets generally and us specifically The commercial soundness of many financial institutions is closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships among the institutions. As a result, concern about the credit standing of, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems or losses in, or defaults by, other institutions. This may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis. Actual defaults, increases in perceived default risk and other similar events could arise in the future and could have an adverse effect on the financial markets and on us. Our finance operations may be damaged if major financial institutions, Japanese or otherwise, fail or experience severe liquidity or solvency problems. There can be no assurance as to the accuracy of the information about, or the sufficiency of the collateral we use in managing, our credit risk We regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients or counterparties and to specific countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns. Default risk, however, may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the risks of a counterparty. In addition, in cases where we have extended credit against collateral, we may fall into a deficiency in value in the collateral. For example, if sudden declines in market values reduce the value of our collateral, we may become undersecured. 9 Table of Contents Our clients and counterparties may be unable to perform their obligations to us as a result of political or economic conditions Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk, as well as market risk. Political or economic pressures in a country or region, including those arising from local market disruptions or currency crises, may adversely affect the ability of clients or counterparties located in that country or region to obtain credit or foreign exchange, and therefore to perform their obligations owed to us. The financial services industry is intensely competitive and rapidly consolidating Our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. In recent years, we have experienced intense price competition, particularly in brokerage, investment banking and other businesses. Competition with commercial banks, commercial bank-owned securities subsidiaries and non-Japanese firms in the Japanese market is increasing Since the late 1990s, the financial services sector in Japan has been undergoing deregulation. Banks and other types of financial services firms can compete with us to a greater degree than they could before deregulation in the areas of financing and investment trusts. Among others, securities subsidiaries of commercial banks and non-Japanese firms have been affecting our market shares in the underwriting business, corporate advisory services in connection with M&A, and retail business. Increased domestic and global consolidation in the financial services industry means increased competition for us In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions in Japan and overseas. Particularly in Japan, a number of securities companies have allied with or been acquired by commercial banks, and non-Japanese commercial banks are enhancing their securities subsidiaries in Japan. Most of our major Japanese competitors are now owned by, or allied with, bank holding groups. Through such business alliances and consolidations, these other securities companies and commercial banks have the ability to offer a wide range of products, including loans, deposit-taking, insurance, brokerage, asset management and investment banking services within their group. This diversity of services offered may enhance their competitive position compared with us. They also have the ability to supplement their investment banking and brokerage businesses with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share. Our policy to remain independent from commercial banks may result in the loss of market share as these large, consolidated firms expand their business. Our ability to expand internationally will depend on our ability to compete successfully with financial services firms in international markets We believe that significant opportunities and challenges will arise for us outside of Japan. In order to take advantage of these opportunities, we will have to compete successfully with financial services firms based in important non-Japanese markets, including the United States, Europe and Asia. Some of these financial services firms are larger, better capitalized and have a stronger local presence and a longer operating history in these markets. As a means to bolster our international operations, we acquired certain Lehman operations, including some of the Lehman employees in Europe and the Middle East and a majority of the Lehman employees in Asia, as well as certain specialized service companies in India in 2008. There can be no assurance, however, that we 10 Table of Contents will successfully achieve the targeted synergies or other intended benefits from the acquisition of former Lehman operations as contemplated. In addition, we are currently rebuilding our operations in the United States. In particular, we are increasing headcount to service client-related businesses, including cross-border transactions such as sales in Europe or Asia of products originated in the United States and vice versa. We believe that U.S. build-out will be important to our global success due to continued global demand for U.S. products, and failure to expand and strengthen our operations in the United States may materially and adversely affect our global strategy. Operational risk may disrupt our businesses, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth We face, for example, the following types of operational risk which could result in financial losses, disruption in our business, litigation from relevant parties, intervention in our business by the regulatory authorities, or damage to our reputation: • failure to settle securities transactions, • failure by officers or employees to perform proper administrative activities prescribed in regular procedures, such as orders to securities exchanges, • suspension or malfunction of systems, • the destruction of our facilities or systems due to large-scale disasters or acts of terrorism, which are beyond anticipation and could not be covered by our contingency plan or • the disruption of our business due to pandemic diseases or illnesses, such as avian influenza and swine flu. Our business is subject to substantial legal, regulatory and reputational risks Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material financial effect or cause reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously damage our business prospects. Also, material changes in regulations applicable to us or to our market could adversely affect our business. Our exposure to legal liability is significant We face significant legal risks in our businesses. These risks include liability under securities or other laws in connection with securities underwriting and offering transactions, liability arising from the purchase or sale of any securities or other products, disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements or the validity of contracts for our transactions and legal claims concerning our financial advisory and merchant banking business. During a prolonged market downturn, we would expect claims against us to increase. We may also face significant litigation. The cost of defending such litigation may be substantial and our involvement in litigation may damage our reputation. In addition, even legal transactions might be subject to social criticism according to the particulars or situations of such transactions. These risks may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Extensive regulation of our businesses limits our activities and may subject us to significant penalties and losses The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in Japan and in virtually all other jurisdictions in which we operate, and such governmental and regulatory scrutiny may increase as our operations expand. These regulations are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect clients and other third 11 Table of Contents parties who deal with us. These regulations are not necessarily designed to protect our shareholders and often limit our activities, through net capital, client protection and market conduct requirements. We face the risk that regulatory authorities may intervene in our businesses through extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations or judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. We could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, ordered to improve our internal governance procedures, or be subject to the temporary or long-term suspension or revocation of our legal authorization to conduct business. Our reputation could also suffer from the adverse publicity that any administrative or judicial sanction against us may create. As a result of any such sanction, we may lose business opportunities for a period of time, even after the sanction is lifted, if and to the extent that our clients, especially public institutions, decide not to engage us for their financial transactions. Material changes in regulations applicable to us or to our market could adversely affect our business If regulations that apply to our businesses are introduced, modified or removed, we could be adversely affected directly or through resulting changes in market conditions. For example, in accordance with the amendments to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (the “FIEA”), effective from December 1, 2004, banks and certain other financial institutions became able to act as agents of securities companies in the securities brokerage business. In addition, in accordance with the amendments to the FIEA effective from June 1, 2009, firewalls between commercial banks and securities firms were partially deregulated. Therefore, we may face increased competition as our competitors will be able to cooperate more closely with their affiliated commercial banks. We currently calculate and disclose our consolidated capital adequacy ratio by applying the Financial Services Agency (“FSA”) capital adequacy rules applicable to bank holding companies with international operations, as allowed under the guideline published by the FSA. In July 2009, the Basel Committee approved a basic package of measures designed to strengthen its rules for capital adequacy measures, commonly referred to as Basel II, upon which the above-mentioned FSA’s capital adequacy rules are based. Also, in December 2009, the Basel Committee announced consultative proposals to strengthen the resilience of the banking sector, laying out a new framework of capital and liquidity regulations in response to the global financial crisis. For more information about such measures, see “Consolidated Regulatory Requirements” under Item 5.B. of this annual report. Although specific rules implementing such measures designed to strengthen Basel II as well as the FSA’s rules implementing such measures in Japan are yet to be finalized, as a result of the implementation of those new measures, our capital adequacy ratio may decrease or we may be required to liquidate assets, raise additional capital or otherwise restrict our business activities in a manner that could adversely increase our funding costs or could otherwise adversely affect our operating or financing activities or the interests of our shareholders. The FSA amended the “Comprehensive Guidelines for Supervision of the Financial Instruments Business Operators, etc.” which became effective on March 4, 2010. Such amendment includes, among others, restrictions on the compensation systems of corporate groups of financial instruments firms engaging in international operations, including Nomura, which are designed to reduce excessive risk taking by their executives and employees. In addition, to improve the stability and transparency of Japan’s financial system and to ensure the protection of investors, another bill to amend the FIEA was passed by the Diet on May 12, 2010. The amendment is scheduled to become effective within one year, and is intended to strengthen group-wide regulation and supervision by introducing consolidated supervision of securities companies the size of which exceeds specified parameters. For more information about such amendments, see “Regulation—Japan” under Item 4.B. of this annual report. In addition, in response to the financial markets crisis, governments and regulatory authorities in various jurisdictions, such as the U.S. and the U.K., have made and continue to make numerous proposals to reform the regulatory framework for, or impose a tax or levy upon, the financial services industry to enhance its resilience against future crises, contribute to the relevant economy generally or for other purposes. For example, on June 25, 2010, a bi-partisan committee of the U.S. Congress agreed on a financial regulatory reform bill which, 12 Table of Contents among others, would: (i) restrict banks’ proprietary trading as well as investments in hedge funds and private equity funds; (ii) authorize a special assessment on financial institutions with more than $50 billion in assets, and hedge funds with more than $10 billion in assets; (iii) empower regulators to liquidate failing financial companies; (iv) provide for a broader regulatory oversight of hedge funds and credit rating agencies; (v) and create a tight new regulatory framework for derivatives. The committee bill is expected to be approved by both the House of Representatives and the Senate, allowing President Barack Obama to sign it into law before July 4, 2010. In the UK Emergency Budget Statement delivered on June 22, 2010, the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed a levy on the total liabilities of UK banks, which would include the UK entities of non-UK banks and banking groups. This is in line with initiatives on national bank levies recently taken by the Council of European Union and relates more broadly to a proposal regarding new taxes on financial institutions submitted to the governments of the Group of Twenty (G-20) by the International Monetary Fund. The impact of the regulations and legislation on us and our industry is still unknown and various countries where we operate (including Japan) could introduce similar measures. Tightening of regulations or introduction of new tax or levy applicable to us and our industry in many countries could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Misconduct or fraud by an employee, director or officer, or any third party, could occur, and our reputation in the market and our relationships with clients could be harmed We face the risk that misconduct by an employee, director or officer, or any third party, could occur which may adversely affect our business. Misconduct by an employee, director or officer can include, for example, entering into transactions in excess of authorized limits, acceptance of risks that exceed our limits, or concealment of unauthorized or unsuccessful activities. The misconduct could also involve, for example, the improper use or disclosure of our or our clients’ confidential information, such as insider trading, which could result in regulatory sanctions, legal liability and serious reputational or financial damage to us. We may not always be able to detect or deter misconduct by an employee, director or officer and the precautions we take to detect and prevent misconduct may not be effective in all cases. If any administrative or judicial sanction is issued against us as a result of such misconduct, we may lose business opportunities for a period of time, even after the sanction is lifted, if and to the extent that our clients, especially public institutions, decide not to engage us for their financial transactions. Third parties may also engage in fraudulent activities, including devising a fraudulent scheme to induce our investment, loans, guarantee or any other form of our financial commitment, both direct and indirect. Because of the broad range of businesses that we engage in and the large number of third parties with whom we deal in our day-to-day business operations, such fraud or any other misconduct may be difficult to prevent or detect. We may not be able to recover the financial losses caused by such activities and our reputation may also be damaged by such activities. Unauthorized disclosure of personal information held by us may adversely affect our business We keep and manage personal information obtained from clients in connection with our business. In recent years, there have been many reported cases of personal information and records in the possession of corporations and institutions being improperly accessed or disclosed. We may have to provide compensation for economic loss and emotional distress arising out of a failure to protect such information in accordance with the Act on the Protection of Personal Information and rules, regulations and guidelines relating thereto. Although we exercise care in protecting the confidentiality of personal information and take steps to safeguard such information, if any material unauthorized disclosure of personal information does occur, our business could be adversely affected in a number of ways. For example, we could be subject to complaints and lawsuits for damages from clients if they are adversely affected as a result of the release of their personal information. In addition, we could incur additional expenses associated with changing our security systems, either voluntarily or in response to administrative guidance or other regulatory initiatives, or in connection with 13 Table of Contents public relations campaigns designed to prevent or mitigate damage to our corporate or brand image or reputation. Any damage to our reputation caused by such unauthorized disclosure could lead to a decline in new clients and/or a loss of existing clients, as well as to increased costs and expenses in dealing with any such problems. We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. We may not be able to realize gains we expect, and may even suffer losses, on our private equity investments We engage in private equity business in Japan and outside of Japan through fully owned subsidiaries and other consolidated entities which have third party pooling of funds. Decline of fair values of our investment positions, which could arise from deteriorating business performance of investee companies or any deterioration in the market conditions of these sectors, may cause material losses to us. Further, our inability to dispose of our private equity investments at the level and time we may wish could have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to dispose of our operating investments at the time or with the speed we would like We hold substantial operating investments, which refer to investments in equity securities of companies not affiliated with us which we hold on a long-term basis in order to promote existing and potential business relationships. A substantial portion of these investments consists of equity securities of public companies in Japan. Under U.S. GAAP, depending on market conditions, we may record significant unrealized gains or losses on our operating investments, which would have a substantial impact on our consolidated statements of operations. Depending on the conditions of the Japanese equity markets, we may not be able to dispose of these equity securities when we would like to do so, as quickly as we may wish or at the desired values. Equity investments in affiliates and other investees accounted for under the equity method in our consolidated financial statements may decline significantly over a period of time and result in us incurring an impairment loss We have affiliates and investees, accounted for under the equity method in our consolidated financial statements, whose shares are publicly traded. Under U.S. GAAP, if there is a decline in the fair value, i.e., the market price, of the shares we hold in such affiliates over a period of time, and we determine that the decline is other-than-temporary, then we record an impairment loss for the applicable fiscal period. We may face an outflow of clients’ assets due to losses of cash reserve funds or bonds we offered We offer many types of products to meet various needs of our clients with different risk profiles. Cash reserve funds, such as money management funds and money reserve funds are categorized as low-risk products. Such cash reserve funds may fall below par value as a result of losses caused by the rise of interest rates or the withdrawals or defaults on bonds contained in the portfolio. In addition, bonds that we offer may default or experience delays in their obligation to pay interest and/or principal. Such losses in the products we offer may result in the loss of client confidence and lead to an outflow of client assets from our custody. 14 Table of Contents Because of daily price range limitations under Japanese stock exchange rules, you may not be able to sell your shares of Nomura’s common stock at a particular price on any particular trading day, or at all Stock prices on Japanese stock exchanges are determined on a real-time basis by the equilibrium between bids and offers. These exchanges are order-driven markets without specialists or market makers to guide price formation. For the purpose of protecting investors from excessive volatility, these exchanges set daily upward and downward price fluctuation limits for each stock, based on the previous day’s closing price. Although transactions may continue at the upward or downward limit price if the limit price is reached on a particular trading day, no transactions may take place outside these limits. Consequently, an investor wishing to sell at a price above or below the relevant daily limit may not be able to sell his or her shares at such price on a particular trading day, or at all. Under Japan’s unit share system, holders of our shares constituting less than one unit are subject to transfer, voting and other restrictions Pursuant to the Companies Act of Japan, or the Companies Act, relating to joint stock corporations and certain related legislation, our Articles of Incorporation provide that 100 shares of our stock constitute one “unit.” The Companies Act imposes significant restrictions and limitations on holdings of shares that constitute less than a whole unit. Holders of shares constituting less than one unit do not have the right to vote or any other right relating to voting. Under the unit share system, any holders of shares constituting less than a unit has the right to require us to purchase their shares. Also, any holders of shares constituting less than a unit may require us to sell them such number of shares as may be necessary to raise such holder’s share ownership to a whole unit. Shares constituting less than a unit are transferable under the Companies Act, but may not be traded on any Japanese stock exchange. As a holder of ADSs, you will have fewer rights than a shareholder has and you will have to act through the depositary to exercise these rights The rights of the shareholders under Japanese law to take actions including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining the company’s accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to holders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agent, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying your ADSs as instructed by you and will pay you the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights except through the depositary. Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be more limited than under the laws of other jurisdictions Our Articles of Incorporation, our Regulations of the Board of Directors and the Companies Act govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and executive officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ rights may be different from those that would apply if we were a non-Japanese company. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law may not be as extensive as shareholders’ rights under the laws of other jurisdictions, including jurisdictions within the United States. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in another jurisdiction. Our shareholders of record on a record date may not receive the dividend they anticipate The customary dividend payout practice of publicly listed companies in Japan may significantly differ from that widely followed or otherwise deemed necessary or fair in foreign markets. Our dividend payout practice is no exception. We ultimately determine the actual dividend payment amount to our shareholders of record as of a 15 Table of Contents record date, including whether we will make any dividend payment to such shareholders at all, only after such record date. For the foregoing reasons, our shareholders of record on a record date may not receive the dividends they anticipate. Furthermore, we do not announce any dividend forecast. It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors or executive officers, or to enforce against us or those persons judgments obtained in United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States We are a limited liability, joint-stock corporation incorporated under the laws of Japan. Most of our directors and executive officers reside in Japan. Many of our assets and the assets of these persons are located in Japan and elsewhere outside the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons or to enforce against us or these persons judgments obtained in the United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We believe that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Japan, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgment of U.S. courts, of liabilities predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Special Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements This annual report contains forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about our business, our industry and capital markets around the world. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may”, “will”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan” or similar words. These statements discuss future expectations, identify strategies, contain projections of our results of operations or financial condition, or state other forward-looking information. Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance, achievements or financial position to differ materially from any future results, performance, achievements or financial position expressed or implied by any forward-looking statement contained in this annual report. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors are set forth in this Item 3.D and elsewhere in this annual report. 