Item 1A. Risk Factors.Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC include the following:Risks Related to Our CompanyDowngrades or the revocation of the financial strength ratings of our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may affect our standing among brokers and customers and may cause our premiums and earnings to decrease significantly. Downgrades in our debt ratings could raise our borrowing costs and impact our ability to access capital markets.Financial strength ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. The objective of these rating systems is to provide an opinion of an insurer's or reinsurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders or cedents. Our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are rated by third-party rating agencies. Each rating is subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, the rating agency. For the financial strength rating of each of our principal operating subsidiaries, please see Item 1. “Business — Financial Strength Ratings”.A ratings downgrade or revocation could adversely affect our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry and may make it more difficult for us to market our products, possibly resulting in substantial loss of business as customers and brokers that place this business move to competitors with higher financial strength ratings. Additionally, it is common for our reinsurance contracts to contain terms that would allow the ceding companies to cancel the contract for the portion of our obligations if our insurance subsidiaries are downgraded below an A- by either A.M. Best or Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”). Our U.S. reinsurance subsidiary typically does not post collateral for the reinsurance contracts it writes. Should our U.S. reinsurance subsidiary be downgraded below an A- by A.M. Best or S&P, in addition to the cancellation right discussed above, some ceding companies would have the ability to require our U.S. reinsurance subsidiary to post collateral under its contracts. Furthermore, a ratings downgrade or revocation of certain of our operating subsidiaries would be an event of default under our credit facilities, please see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Liquidity — Credit Facility”. Finally, if our debt ratings were downgraded we could also incur higher borrowing costs and may have more limited means to access capital.Our debt and financial strength ratings are neither an evaluation directed to our investors nor a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our securities. We cannot assure you that third-party rating agencies will not downgrade or revoke our financial strength or debt ratings, which would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.Actual claims may exceed our reserves for losses and loss expenses.Our success depends in part on our ability to accurately assess the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish reserves for losses and related expenses that represent our estimates of what we expect the ultimate resolution and administration of claims will cost. The process of establishing loss reserves can be highly complex and is subject to considerable variability and uncertainty as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are based on: actuarial and statistical projections, claims information, our assessment of currently available data, industry modeling, discussions with individual insureds and reinsureds, estimates 17Table of Contentsof future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are refined on a quarterly basis as experience develops and claims are reported and resolved. In addition, changes in the level of inflation may also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves because premiums are established before the ultimate amounts of loss and loss adjustment expense are known. Our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and related expenses, such as the value of replacing property and associated labor costs for the property business we write, the value of medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above established reserves, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in net income for the period in which the deficiency is identified. Although we consider the potential effects of inflation when setting premium rates, our premiums may not fully offset the effects of inflation and may result in our underpricing of the risks we insure and reinsure. As a result, actual losses and loss adjustment expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process and it is possible that our loss reserves at any given time will prove to be inadequate. Please see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Reserve for Losses and Loss Expenses”. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase our reserves to reflect our changed expectations at the time of such determination. This could cause a material increase in our liabilities and a material reduction in our profitability and capital, which could result in operating losses in the period in which the inadequacy becomes known and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Actual losses incurred may vary from those estimated and may be significantly greater or less than the loss reserves held at the time actual losses are determined. We may experience significant losses and volatility in our financial results from natural and man-made disasters.As a casualty and property insurer and reinsurer, we may experience significant losses from claims arising out of natural and man-made disasters. These events can be caused by various unpredictable natural disasters, including earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, drought, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, pandemic diseases and man-made disasters, including terrorism, explosions, war, nuclear accidents, oil spills, environmental contamination and cyber breaches. In recent years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions, referred to as global warming, may have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural catastrophes in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty with regard to legal, regulatory and social responses thereto, as well as to future trends and exposures. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the underwriting of property insurance and reinsurance around the world and any large scale climate change or other systemic weather-related change could increase the frequency and severity of our loss costs due to weather-related catastrophes. In addition, increases in the values and concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of losses to the industry, and we expect this trend to continue. We also have exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism and political instability. Although we generally exclude acts of terrorism from our property insurance policies and property reinsurance treaties, we provide coverage in circumstances where we believe we are adequately compensated for assuming those risks. Managing risks associated with terrorism is particularly challenging given the unpredictable nature, frequency and severity of terrorist events, and the limited availability of terrorism reinsurance. In addition, our trade credit and political risk insurance lines of business protect insureds against risks arising from adverse action by foreign governments. We attempt to manage our exposure to political risk event losses, by among other things, setting credit limits by country, region, industry and individual counterparty and regularly reviewing our aggregate exposures.The loss limitation methods we employ, such as establishing restrictive underwriting guidelines and purchasing reinsurance, may not be sufficient protection against losses from natural or man-made disasters. These types of events are inherently unpredictable and there is a possibility that loss reserves for such disasters will be inadequate. In addition, because U.S. GAAP does not permit insurers and reinsurers to reserve for weather-related catastrophes until they occur, claims from these events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ratings.18Table of ContentsThe risk models we use to quantify natural and man-made disaster exposures and risk accumulations may prove inadequate.We use widely accepted and industry-recognized disaster risk modeling programs to help us quantify our aggregate exposure to any one event. These models rely on various methodologies and assumptions, which are subject to uncertainty. As with any model of physical systems, particularly those with low frequencies of occurrence and potentially high severity of outcomes, the accuracy of the model’s predictions is largely dependent on the accuracy and quality of the data provided in the underwriting process and the judgments of our employees and other industry professionals. These models do not anticipate all potential perils or events that could result in a catastrophic loss to us. Furthermore, it is often difficult for models to anticipate and incorporate events that have not been experienced during or as a result of prior disaster events. Accordingly, it is possible for us to be subject to events or contingencies that have not been anticipated by our disaster risk models and which could have a material adverse effect on our reserves and results of operations.The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We seek to limit our loss exposure by implementing a number of strategies intended to mitigate our risk exposure, such as adhering to maximum limitations on policies written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client, adjusting retention levels and establishing per-risk and per-occurrence limitations for each event and prudent underwriting guidelines for each insurance program written. Many of our direct liability insurance policies also include maximum aggregate limitations. We cannot assure you that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective. In particular, geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the areas of the zones and whether a policy falls within particular zone limits. Legal disputes relating to loss limitation provisions in our policies may also arise. As a result, various provisions of our policies that are designed to limit risks, such as choice of forum and exclusions from coverage, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend and some or all of our other loss limitation methods may prove to be ineffective. It is also possible that losses could manifest themselves in ways that we do not anticipate and that our risk mitigation strategies are not designed to address. There are inherent limitations in all of the loss limitation methods we use and an event or series of events may result in loss levels that exceed our expectations. The failure of any of our loss limitation methods may result in claims and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.U.S. and global economic events could harm our business, liquidity and financial condition, and our share price.Global economic events may adversely affect the demand for and claims made under our products; our counterparty credit risk; and the ability of our customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us. Our investment performance and volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may also adversely affect our share price and our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources.The risk associated with underwriting treaty reinsurance business could adversely affect us.Like other reinsurers, our reinsurance group does not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. Therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by the ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. If our Bermuda reinsurance subsidiary is unable to provide collateral to ceding companies, its ability to conduct business could be significantly and negatively affected.Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda insurance and reinsurance company, is not licensed or admitted as an insurer in any jurisdiction in the United States, nor is it accredited as a reinsurer in any jurisdiction in the United States although Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd has been approved as a “certified reinsurer” in certain U.S. states that allow reduced collateral for reinsurance ceded to such reinsurers. Insurance regulations in the United States do not permit U.S. cedents to take financial statement credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted reinsurers unless security is posted. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd’s assumed reinsurance contracts generally require it to post a letter of credit or provide other security, even in U.S. states where it has been approved for reduced collateral. As a result, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd is required to post collateral security with respect to most reinsurance liabilities it assumes from ceding insurers domiciled in the United States . Under applicable statutory 19Table of Contentsprovisions, the security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by trustees or funds-withheld arrangements where assets are held by the ceding company. If we are unable to post security in the form of letters of credit or trust funds when required, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd’s ability to provide reinsurance to U.S.-domiciled insurers may be severely limited and adversely affected.In addition, security arrangements with ceding insurers may subject our assets to security interests or may require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties. Although the investment income derived from our assets while held in trust typically accrues to our benefit, the investment of these assets is governed by the terms of the letter of credit facilities and the investment regulations of the state of domicile of the ceding insurer, which generally regulate the amount and quality of investments permitted and which may be more restrictive than the investment regulations applicable to us under Bermuda law. These restrictions may result in lower investment yields on these assets, which could adversely affect our profitability.We depend on a small number of brokers for a large portion of our revenues. The loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us.We market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide through insurance and reinsurance brokers. Our top three brokers were Marsh, Aon (including Benfield Group Ltd.) and Willis represented approximately 51.5% of our total gross premiums written for 2014, with each representing 25%, 17% and 10%, of total gross premiums, respectively. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business produced by any one of those brokers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Our exposure to counterparties in various industries and reliance on brokers subjects us to credit risk.We have exposure to counterparties through our insurance and reinsurance business and in various industries, including banks, hedge funds and other investment vehicles, and derivative transactions that expose us to credit risk in the event our counterparty fails to perform its obligations. We also have exposure to financial institutions in the form of secured and unsecured debt instruments and equity securities.In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the customers that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, it is likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local law or contractual obligations. Likewise, when a customer pays premiums for policies written by us to a broker for further payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we actually receive the premiums. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the brokers we use.We may be unable to purchase reinsurance for our own account on commercially acceptable terms or to collect under any reinsurance we have purchased.We purchase reinsurance to mitigate the effects of large or multiple losses on our financial condition. From time to time, market conditions beyond our control have limited, and in some cases prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance they consider adequate for their business needs. We cannot assure that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us in amounts that we consider sufficient and at rates that we consider acceptable or that we will be able to obtain coverage from entities with satisfactory financial resources.Furthermore, a reinsurer’s insolvency, or inability or refusal to make payments under a reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance agreement with us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because the ceding of risk to reinsurers does not relieve us of our liability to the entities we insure or reinsure.Our investment performance may adversely affect our financial performance and ability to conduct business.We derive a significant portion of our income from our invested assets. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio is overseen by our Chief Investment Officer and managed by professional investment management firms in accordance with the Investment Policy Statement approved by the Investment Committee of our Board of Directors. Our investment performance is subject to a variety of risks, including risk related to general economic conditions, market volatility and interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit default risk. The volatility of the markets may cause us to incur capital losses. Realized and unrealized losses 20Table of Contentsin our investment portfolio would generally reduce our book value, and if significant, can affect our ability to conduct business.Volatility in interest rates and changes in credit spreads could impact the performance of our investment portfolio, which could have an adverse effect on our investment income and operating results. Although we take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to effectively mitigate interest rate sensitivity. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high-quality portfolio of primarily fixed income investments with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. A significant increase in interest rates would generally have an adverse effect on our book value. Additionally, changes in the credit spread (the difference in the percentage yield) between U.S. Treasury securities and non-U.S. Treasury securities may negatively impact our investment portfolio as we may not be able to effectively mitigate credit spread sensitivity.While our investment portfolio consists primarily of investment grade, fixed-maturity securities, there are no assurances that their high ratings will be maintained. The assignment of a high credit rating does not preclude the potential for the risk of default on any investment instrument. In addition, a smaller portion of our portfolio is invested in below investment-grade securities. These securities, which pay higher rates of interest, also have a higher degree of credit or default risk and may also be less liquid and/or may experience default in times of economic weakness or market disruptions (such as a recession), which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our investment portfolio includes securities that may be more volatile than fixed maturity instruments and certain of these instruments may be illiquid.Our investment portfolio includes equity securities and hedge fund and private equity limited partnership interests that may experience significant volatility in their investment returns and valuations. Moreover, our hedge fund and private equity limited partnership interests are subject to transfer restrictions and may be illiquid. If the investment returns or value of these investments declines, or if we are unable to dispose of these investments at their carrying value, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.The U.S. dollar is our reporting currency and the functional currency of all of our operating subsidiaries. We enter into insurance and reinsurance contracts where the premiums receivable and losses payable are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we maintain a portion of our investments and liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Assets in non-U.S. currencies are generally converted into U.S. dollars at the time of receipt. When we incur a liability in a non-U.S. currency, we carry such liability on our books in the original currency. These liabilities are converted from the non-U.S. currency to U.S. dollars at the time of payment. We may incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses as we ultimately receive premiums and settle claims required to be paid in foreign currencies. We have currency hedges in place that seek to alleviate our potential exposure to volatility in foreign exchange rates and intend to consider the use of additional hedges when we are advised of known or probable significant losses that will be paid in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we do not seek to hedge our foreign currency risk or our hedges prove ineffective, the impact of a movement in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.We may require additional capital in the future that may not be available to us on commercially favorable terms.Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including regulatory requirements and our ability to write new business and to establish premium rates and loss reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that the funds generated by insurance and reinsurance premiums received and sale proceeds and income from our investment portfolio are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and cover losses and loss expenses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or reduce our assets. We may also seek to refinance existing debt or credit arrangements as amounts become due or our existing commitments expire. Any future financing or refinancing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and the securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common shares.21Table of ContentsOur business could be adversely affected if we lose any member of our management team or are unable to attract and retain our personnel.Our success depends in substantial part on our ability to attract and retain our employees who generate and service our business. We rely substantially on the services of our executive management team. If we lose the services of any member of our executive management team, our business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain other talented personnel, the further implementation of our business strategy could be impeded. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any of our employees.Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may experience losses from fraud, illegal acts, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, misuse of customer or proprietary information, or the failure to comply with regulatory or legal requirements or our internal policies. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Losses related to employee error or misconduct could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business.If we experience difficulties with outsourcing and similar third party relationships, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted.We outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf. We may do so increasingly in the future. If we fail to develop and implement our outsourcing strategies or our third party providers fail to perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs, reputational damage and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. By utilizing third parties to perform certain business and administrative functions, we may be exposed to greater risk of cyber-attacks and data security breaches. Any breach of data security could damage our reputation and/or result in monetary damages, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If we experience difficulties with our information technology infrastructure and telecommunications systems and/or data security, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected.We rely heavily on the successful, secure and uninterrupted functioning of our IT infrastructure, technology and telecommunications systems. Our business depends on effective information security and systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data our information systems used to run our business. Our ability to adequately price products and services, to establish reserves, to provide effective, efficient and secure service to our customers, to value our investments and to timely and accurately report our financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data we maintain, including that within our information systems, as well as data in third-party service provider systems. A failure of our IT infrastructure, technology and telecommunication systems or the termination of third-party software licenses we rely on in order to maintain such systems could materially impact our ability to write and process business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary actuarial, legal, financial and other business functions. Although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and take protective actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our IT systems and data, and we undertake to modify such procedures as circumstances warrant, such measures may be insufficient to prevent unauthorized access, computer viruses, malware or other malicious code or cyber-attack, catastrophic events, system failures and disruptions and other events that could have security consequences that may result in liability to us, cause our data to be corrupted and cause us to commit resources, management time and money to prevent or correct security breaches. Some of our key business partners rely on our systems for critical underwriting and administration functions and interruption and/or failure of these systems could cause significant liability to them. If we do not maintain adequate IT infrastructure, technology and telecommunications systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including inadequate information on which to base critical decisions, the loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, damage to our reputation, litigation exposures and increased administrative expenses. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected.22Table of ContentsThe integration of acquired companies, the growth of our operations through new lines of insurance or reinsurance business, the expansion into new geographic regions and/or the entering into joint ventures or partnerships may expose us to operational risks.Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including operational, strategic and financial risks such as potential liabilities associated with the acquired business. We may experience difficulties in integrating an acquired company, which could adversely affect the acquired company’s performance or prevent us from realizing anticipated synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. See “Risks Related to Our Transactions with RSA”.Expanding our lines of business, expanding our geographic reach and entering into joint ventures or partnerships also involve operational, strategic and financial risks, including retaining qualified management and implementing satisfactory budgetary, financial and operational controls. Our failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or business, or we may not realize any of the intended benefits.Shareholder voting requirements under Swiss law may limit our flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management.Swiss law allows our shareholders to authorize share capital which can be issued by the Board of Directors without shareholder approval, and this authorization must be renewed by the shareholders every two years. Swiss law does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of stock as permitted in other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders many corporate actions over which our Board of Directors previously had authority when we were domiciled in Bermuda. For example, dividends must be approved by shareholders. While we do not believe that Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management will have an adverse effect on us, we cannot assure that situations will not arise where such flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders.Risks Related to Our Transaction with RSAOn August 22, 2014, Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd entered into (i) a Sale of Business Agreement with RSA, with respect to RSA’s Hong Kong insurance operations (the “Hong Kong Purchase Agreement”); and (ii) a Sale of Business Agreement with RSA with respect to RSA’s Singapore insurance operations (the “Singapore Purchase Agreement” and together with the Hong Kong Purchase Agreement, collectively, the “Purchase Agreements”). The Purchase Agreements provide that Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd will, subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, acquire the in-force insurance portfolios and related assets and liabilities of RSA’s Hong Kong and Singapore insurance operations. The following are a number of risks that we face in connection with the proposed acquisitions.The occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the Purchase Agreements could adversely affect our future business.There are significant risks and uncertainties associated with the acquisitions. The occurrence of certain events, changes or any other circumstances could give rise to the termination of one or both of the Purchase Agreements and cause the acquisitions not to be completed. There is no assurance that we will receive the necessary regulatory approvals from the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance in Hong Kong and the Monetary Authority of Singapore as well as the High Court of Singapore. If we fail to obtain such approvals or meet other conditions necessary to complete the acquisitions set forth in the Purchase Agreements, we would not be able to close the transactions. Failure to complete the acquisition(s) would prevent us from realizing its anticipated benefits to our business.We must obtain regulatory approvals to complete the acquisitions, which, if delayed, not granted or granted with unacceptable conditions may jeopardize or delay the acquisitions, result in additional expense or reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions.We must obtain regulatory approvals from the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance in Hong Kong and the Monetary Authority of Singapore as well as the High Court of Singapore prior to the completion of the acquisitions. The regulatory authorities from which we seek approvals have broad discretion in administering relevant laws and regulations. As a condition to the approval of the acquisitions, regulatory authorities may impose requirements or limitations that could negatively affect the way we conduct our Hong Kong and/or Singapore business operations post-acquisition. If we agree to any material conditions or restrictions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete 23Table of Contentsthe acquisitions, these conditions or restrictions could adversely affect our ability to integrate each company’s businesses or reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions.Our business could be adversely impacted by uncertainty related to the proposed acquisitions, whether or not the acquisitions are completed.Whether or not the acquisitions are completed, the announcement and pendency of the acquisitions could impact our business, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the success of the acquisitions, including:•that the proposed acquisitions disrupt our current business plans and operations;•our management's attention being directed toward the completion of the acquisitions and transaction-related considerations and being diverted away from our day-to-day business operations and the execution of our current business plans; and•we may incur significantly higher transaction costs than we currently anticipate, such as legal and accounting fees, and other costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the acquisitions, whether or not the acquisitions are completed.The anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.The acquisitions involve the integration of RSA's Hong Kong and Singapore operations with and into our current Hong Kong and Singapore branch operations, which have previously operated independently. We will devote significant management attention and resources integrating the Hong Kong and Singapore businesses. Delays in this process could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and share price after the completion of the acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether RSA's Hong Kong and Singapore businesses and our business are integrated in an efficient and effective manner, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. We may experience unanticipated difficulties or expenses in connection with integrating these businesses, including:•retaining existing employees, clients, brokers, distribution partners, agents and third-party service providers of RSA's Hong Kong and Singapore operations;•retaining and integrating management and other key employees of RSA's Hong Kong and Singapore operations;•unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications, marketing, administrative and other systems; and•potential charges to earnings resulting from the application of purchase accounting to the transaction.Even if the business operations are integrated successfully, there can be no assurance that we will realize the full benefits of synergies that we currently expect from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Related to the Insurance and Reinsurance BusinessThe insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions.Historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of underwriting capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. The occurrence, or non-occurrence, of 24Table of Contentscatastrophic events, the frequency and severity of which are unpredictable, affects both industry results and consequently prevailing market prices for certain of our products. As a result of these factors, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense competition on price and policy terms due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permit favorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions. Increases in the supply of insurance and reinsurance may have adverse consequences for us, including fewer policies and contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions.Competition in the insurance and reinsurance markets could reduce our margins.Insurance and reinsurance markets are highly competitive. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermuda, European, and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial, marketing, and management resources than we do. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital market participants have created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions and contracts written, lower premium rates, and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth, financial condition or results of operations.The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.As industry practices and legislative, regulatory, judicial, social, financial, technology and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the frequency and severity of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations Applicable to UsCompliance by our insurance subsidiaries with the legal and regulatory requirements to which they are subject is expensive. Any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries conduct business globally. Our businesses are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision both in the jurisdictions in which they are organized and in the jurisdictions they operate. The purpose of insurance laws and regulations generally is to protect policyholders and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus, and liquidity; various solvency standards; and periodic examinations of subsidiaries' financial condition. In some jurisdictions, laws and regulations also restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. Applicable statutes, regulations, and policies may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make certain investments, and to distribute funds.The insurance and regulatory environment, in particular for offshore insurance and reinsurance companies, has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United States, various states within the United States and the United Kingdom. It is not possible to predict the future impact of changes in laws and regulations on our operations. The cost of complying with any new legal requirements affecting our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business.In addition, our subsidiaries may not always be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations. They also may not be able to fully comply with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the laws and regulations applicable to them. Any failure to comply with applicable law or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in restrictions on either the ability of the company in question, as well as potentially its affiliates, to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate or on brokers on which we rely to produce business for us. Any such failure to comply with applicable laws or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business. For more information, please see Item 1. “Business —Regulatory Matters”.25Table of ContentsOur Bermuda operating company could become subject to regulation in the United States.Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda operating company is not admitted as an insurer, nor accredited as a reinsurer, in any jurisdiction in the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2014, more than 70% of the gross premiums written by Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, however, are derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts entered into with entities domiciled in the United States. The insurance laws of each state in the United States regulate the sale of insurance and reinsurance within the state’s jurisdiction by foreign insurers. Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd conducts its business through its Bermuda office and does not maintain an office, and its personnel do not solicit insurance business, resolve claims or conduct other insurance business, in the United States. While Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd does not believe it is in violation of insurance laws of any jurisdiction in the United States, we cannot be certain that inquiries or challenges to our insurance and reinsurance activities will not be raised in the future. It is possible that, if Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd were to become subject to any laws of this type at any time in the future, we would not be in compliance with the requirements of those laws.Our holding company structure and regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments.Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG is a holding company, and as such has no substantial operations of its own. It does not have any significant assets other than its ownership of the shares of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our subsidiaries are expected to be our sole source of funds for Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG to meet any ongoing cash requirements and to pay any dividends to shareholders. Some of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, meet our debt service obligations and repurchase shares of our common stock.Legislative, regulatory and industry initiatives could adversely affect our business.The insurance and reinsurance industry is affected by political, judicial, and legal developments that may create new and expanded regulations and theories of liability. Governmental authorities in the United States and worldwide seem increasingly interested in the potential risks posed by the insurance and reinsurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. While we do not believe these inquiries have identified meaningful new risks posed by the insurance and reinsurance industry, and while we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, there may be increased regulatory intervention in our industry in the future. For example, the U.S. federal government has increased its scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in recent years, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Further, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia and state insurance regulators, regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations.We derive substantial revenues from healthcare liability underwriting in the United States through providing insurance to individuals and institutions that participate in the U.S. healthcare delivery infrastructure. The Affordable Care Act has and will continue to effect far-reaching changes in the healthcare delivery system and the healthcare cost reimbursement structure in the United States and could negatively impact our healthcare liability business. Additionally, future healthcare proposals could include tort reform provisions under which plaintiffs would be restricted in their ability to bring suit against healthcare providers, which could negatively impact the demand for our healthcare liability products. While the impact of this healthcare legislation or future healthcare proposals on our business is difficult to predict, any material changes in how healthcare providers insure their malpractice liability risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) effected changes to financial services regulation in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Financial Services Oversight Council (“FSOC”) and the Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) and in limited instances authorizes the federal preemption of certain state insurance laws. The FSOC and FIO are authorized to study, monitor and report to Congress on the U.S. insurance and reinsurance industry and the significance of global reinsurance to the U.S. insurance market. The FIO also can recommend to the FSOC that it designate an insurer as an entity posing risks to U.S. financial stability in the event of the insurer’s material financial distress or failure. An insurer so designated by FSOC could be subject to Federal Reserve supervision and heightened prudential standards. Our business could be affected by changes to the U.S. system of 26Table of Contentsinsurance and reinsurance regulation or the designation of insurers or reinsurers with which we do business as systemically significant non-bank financial companies.With respect to international measures, an E.U. directive concerning the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers and reinsurers (“Solvency II”) which was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2009, may affect our insurance businesses. Implementation of Solvency II by E.U. member states is anticipated to be effective January 1, 2016. Implementing those measures necessary for compliance with the requirements of Solvency II may require us to utilize a significant amount of resources. In addition, the capital and solvency margin requirements of Solvency II may lead to either an increase or decrease of the capital required by our E.U. domiciled insurers in order that they comply with Solvency II. Solvency II provides for the supervision of insurers and reinsurers on both a solo (entity level) and group basis. In respect of our non-E.U. subsidiaries engaging in E.U. insurance or reinsurance business, should the regulatory regime in which they are operating not be deemed equivalent to that established within the E.U. pursuant to Solvency II, additional capital requirements may be imposed in order that such companies may continue to insure or reinsure E.U. domiciled risk/cedents.We are unable to predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject. Moreover, our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that our principal insurance subsidiary is domiciled in, and operates exclusively from, Bermuda. For example, Bermuda, a small jurisdiction, may be disadvantaged in participating in global or cross-border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the United States or the leading E.U. countries. In addition, Bermuda, which is currently an overseas territory of the United Kingdom, may consider changes to its relationship with the United Kingdom in the future. These changes could adversely affect Bermuda’s position with respect to its regulatory initiatives, which could adversely impact us commercially. We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, applicable statutes and regulations and any changes thereto resulting from legislative, regulatory and industry initiatives. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws and regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business and could subject us to fines and other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results.Developments in accounting practices, for example a convergence of U.S. GAAP with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, may require considerable additional expense to comply with, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparison purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted, but may affect the results of our operations, including among other things, the calculation of net income.We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, which impose restrictions and may carry substantial penalties.The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. Our corporate policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, which often carry substantial penalties. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or other inappropriate acts committed by our directors, officers, employees, affiliates or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares to decline.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common SharesOur Articles of Association contain restrictions on voting, ownership and transfers of our common shares, which could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors or effect a change in control and which could diminish the value of our common shares.Our Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold 10% or more of the voting power conferred by our 27Table of Contentscommon shares. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the voting power of some shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. Our Board of Directors may refuse to register holders of shares as shareholders with voting rights based on certain grounds, including if the holder would, directly or indirectly, formally, constructively or beneficially own (as described in Articles 8 and 14 of our Articles of Association) or otherwise control voting rights with respect to 10% or more of our registered share capital recorded in the Swiss Commercial Register. In addition, our Board of Directors shall reject entry of holders of voting shares as shareholders with voting rights in the share register or shall decide on their deregistration when the acquirer or shareholder upon request does not expressly state that it has acquired or holds the voting shares for its own account and benefit. Furthermore, our Board of Directors may cancel, with retroactive application, the registration of a shareholder with voting rights if the initial registration was on the basis of false information in the shareholder’s application. Shareholders registered without voting rights may not participate in or vote at our shareholders meetings, but will be entitled to dividends, preemptive rights and liquidation proceeds. Only shareholders that are registered as shareholders with voting rights on the relevant record date are permitted to participate in and vote at a shareholders meeting.These restrictions on the voting, ownership and transfer of our shares may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders might consider favorable.As a shareholder of our company, you may have greater difficulties in protecting your interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation.Swiss law differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our Articles of Association, some of these differences may result in your having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of Swiss corporate law or our Articles of Association, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers.It may be difficult to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors.Holdings is incorporated pursuant to the laws of Switzerland. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws.We have been advised by Swiss counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts in Switzerland would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Switzerland against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Swiss counsel that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Switzerland providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Swiss courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Switzerland, it may be difficult for investors to recover against us based upon such judgments.There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares.The BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of securities of our Bermuda exempted companies. Before any shareholder acquires 10% or more of the voting shares, either directly or indirectly, of any of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, that shareholder must file an acquisition statement with and obtain prior approval from the domiciliary insurance commissioner of the respective company. Similar provisions apply to our Lloyd’s corporate member. While our Articles of Association limit the voting power of any shareholder to less than 10%, we cannot assure you that the applicable regulatory body would agree that a shareholder who owned 10% or more of our common shares did not, because of the limitation on the voting power of such shares, control the applicable insurance subsidiary. These laws 28Table of Contentsmay discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter, or prevent a change of control of our company, including transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable.Risks Related to Taxation U.S. taxation of our non-U.S. companies could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our non-U.S. companies, including our Swiss, Bermuda and Irish companies, have operated and will operate their respective businesses in a manner that will not cause them to be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. federal excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premiums and withholding tax on specified investment income from U.S. sources) on the basis that none of them are engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, there are no definitive standards under current law as to those activities that constitute a U.S. trade or business and the determination of whether a non-U.S. company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not contend that a non-U.S. company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. If any of the non-U.S. companies are engaged in a U.S. trade or business and does not qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty, such company may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at regular corporate rates on its premium income from U.S. sources and investment income that is effectively connected with its U.S. trade or business. In addition, a U.S. federal branch profits tax at the rate of 30% may be imposed on the earnings and profits attributable to such income. All of the premium income from U.S. sources and a significant portion of investment income of such company (as computed under Section 842 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which requires that a foreign company carrying on a U.S. insurance or reinsurance business have a certain minimum amount of effectively connected net investment income, determined in accordance with a formula that depends, in part, on the amount of U.S. risks insured or reinsured by such company) may be subject to U.S. federal income and branch profits taxes. If Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd, our Bermuda insurance subsidiary, or any Bermuda insurance subsidiary we form or acquire in the future is engaged in a U.S. trade or business and qualifies for benefits under the United States-Bermuda tax treaty, U.S. federal income taxation of such subsidiary will depend on whether (i) it maintains a U.S. permanent establishment and (ii) the relief from taxation under the treaty generally applies to non-premium income. We believe that our Bermuda insurance subsidiary has operated and will continue to operate its business in a manner that will not cause it to maintain a U.S. permanent establishment. However, the determination of whether an insurance company maintains a U.S. permanent establishment is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that our Bermuda insurance subsidiary maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. In such case, our Bermuda insurance subsidiary will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and branch profit tax at the rate of 30% with respect to its income attributable to the permanent establishment. Furthermore, although the provisions of the treaty clearly apply to premium income, it is uncertain whether they generally apply to other income of a Bermuda insurance company. Therefore, if a Bermuda insurance subsidiary of our company qualifies for benefits under the treaty and does not maintain a U.S. permanent establishment but is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, and the treaty is interpreted not to apply to income other than premium income, such subsidiary will be subject to U.S. federal income and branch profits taxes on its investment and other non-premium income as described in the preceding paragraph. In addition, a Bermuda subsidiary will qualify for benefits under the treaty only if more than 50% of its shares are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by individuals who are Bermuda residents or U.S. citizens or residents. Our Bermuda subsidiaries may not be able to continually satisfy such beneficial ownership test or be able to establish it to the satisfaction of the IRS. If any of our Swiss or Irish companies are engaged in a U.S. trade or business and qualify for benefits under the relevant income tax treaty with the United States, U.S. federal income taxation of such company will depend on whether it maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. We believe that each such company has operated and will continue to operate its business in a manner that will not cause it to maintain a U.S. permanent establishment. However, the determination of whether a non-U.S. company maintains a U.S. permanent establishment is inherently factual. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that any of such companies maintains a U.S. permanent establishment. In such case, the company will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and branch profits tax at the rate of 5% with respect to its income attributable to the permanent establishment. U.S. federal income tax, if imposed, will be based on effectively connected or attributable income of a non-U.S. company computed in a manner generally analogous to that applied to the income of a U.S. corporation, except that all deductions and credits claimed by a non-U.S. company in a taxable year can be disallowed if the company does not file a U.S. federal income tax return for such year. Penalties may be assessed for failure to file such return. None of our non-29Table of ContentsU.S. companies filed U.S. federal income tax returns for the 2002 and 2001 taxable years. However, we have filed protective U.S. federal income tax returns on a timely basis for each non-U.S. company for subsequent years in order to preserve our right to claim tax deductions and credits in such years if any of such companies is determined to be subject to U.S. federal income tax. If any of our non-U.S. companies is subject to such U.S. federal taxation, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to additional U.S. taxes in connection with our interaffiliate arrangements. Our U.S. subsidiaries reinsure a significant portion of their insurance policies with Allied World Assurance Company, Ltd. While we believe that the terms of these reinsurance arrangements are arm’s length, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully assert that the payments made by the U.S. subsidiaries with respect to such arrangements exceed arm’s length amounts. In such case, our U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as realizing additional income that may be subject to additional U.S. income tax, possibly with interest and penalties. Such excess amount may also be deemed to have been distributed as dividends to the indirect parent of the U.S. subsidiaries, Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd, in which case this deemed dividend will also be subject to a U.S. federal withholding tax of 5%, assuming that the parent is eligible for benefits under the United States-Ireland income tax treaty (or a withholding tax of 30% if the parent is not so eligible). If any of these U.S. taxes are imposed, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if legislation is enacted in the U.S. that limits or eliminates our ability to enter into interaffiliate arrangements, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax. If we are not successful in our efforts to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or pay dividends out of reserves from capital contributions, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting shares, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). Payment of a capital distribution in the form of a par value reduction or out of reserves from capital contributions is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve such dividends, that we will be able to meet the other applicable legal requirements, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available for us to use for par value reductions or available funds out of reserves from capital contributions will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or pay a dividend out of reserves from capital contributions, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes.The repurchase of our shares to be held in treasury will generally not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, under Swiss law, we are generally prohibited from holding in treasury an aggregate amount of voting shares and non-voting shares in excess of 10% of our aggregate share capital, which could limit our ability to repurchase our shares in the future.You may be subject to U.S. income taxation with respect to income of our non-U.S. companies and ordinary income characterization of gains on disposition of our shares under the controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) rules. Generally, each “United States shareholder” of a CFC will be subject to (i) U.S. federal income taxation on its ratable share of the CFC’s subpart F income, even if the earnings attributable to such income are not distributed, provided that such “United States shareholder” holds directly or through non-U.S. entities shares of the CFC; and (ii) potential ordinary income characterization of gains from the sale or exchange of the directly owned shares of the non-U.S. corporation. For these purposes, any U.S. person who owns directly, through non-U.S. entities, or under applicable constructive ownership rules, 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of any non-U.S. company will be considered to be a “United States shareholder.” An insurance company is classified as a CFC only if its “United States shareholders” own 25% or more of the vote or value of its stock. Although our non-U.S. 30Table of Contentscompanies may be or become CFCs, for the following reasons we believe it is unlikely that any U.S. person holding our shares directly, or through non-U.S. entities, would be subject to tax as a “United States shareholder.” First, although certain of our principal U.S. shareholders previously owned 10% or more of our common shares, no such shareholder currently owns more than 10%. We will be classified as a CFC only if United States shareholders own 25% or more of our stock; one United States shareholder alone will not be subject to tax on subpart F income unless that shareholder owns 25% or more of our stock or there is at least one other United States shareholder that in combination with the first United States shareholder owns 25% or more of our common stock. Second, our Articles of Association provide that no individual or legal entity may, directly or through Constructive Ownership (as defined in Article 14 of our Articles of Association) or otherwise control voting rights with respect to 10% or more of our registered share capital recorded in the Swiss Commercial Register and authorize our Board of Directors to refuse to register holders of shares as shareholders with voting rights under certain circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that the provisions of the Articles of Association referenced in this paragraph will operate as intended or that we will be otherwise successful in preventing a U.S. person from exceeding, or being deemed to exceed, these voting limitations. Accordingly, U.S. persons who hold our shares directly or through non-U.S. entities should consider the possible application of the CFC rules. You may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the related person insurance income (“RPII”) rules. Our non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may currently insure and reinsure and may continue to insure and reinsure directly or indirectly certain of our U.S. shareholders and persons related to such shareholders. We believe that U.S. persons that hold our shares directly or through non-U.S. entities will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation with respect to the income realized in connection with such insurance and reinsurance prior to distribution of earnings attributable to such income either on the basis (i) that RPII, determined on a gross basis, realized by each non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiary will be less than 20% of its gross insurance income in each taxable year; or (ii) that at all times during the year U.S. insureds hold less than 20% of the combined voting power of all classes of our shares entitled to vote and hold less than 20% of the total value of our shares. However, the identity of all of our shareholders, as well as some of the factors that determine the extent of RPII in any period, may be beyond our knowledge or control. For example, we may be considered to insure indirectly the risk of our shareholder if an unrelated company that insured such risk in the first instance reinsures such risk with us. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in keeping the RPII realized by the non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries or the ownership of us by U.S. insureds below the 20% limit in each taxable year. Furthermore, even if we are successful in keeping the RPII or the ownership of us by U.S. insureds below the 20% limit, we cannot assure you that we will be able to establish that fact to the satisfaction of the U.S. tax authorities. If we are unable to establish that the RPII of any non-U.S. insurance or reinsurance subsidiary is less than 20% of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year, and no other exception from the RPII rules applies, each U.S. person who owns our shares, directly or through non-U.S. entities, on the last day of the taxable year will be generally required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately to U.S. holders at that date, regardless of whether that income was actually distributed. The RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has RPII (even if the amount of RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of us by U.S. insureds is below 20%) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Allied World Assurance Company Holdings, AG is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business and these rules appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will interpret these rules in this manner or that the proposed regulations addressing the RPII rules will not be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. U.S. tax-exempt entities may recognize unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). A U.S. tax-exempt entity holding our shares generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to dividends and gains on our shares, provided that such entity does not purchase our shares with borrowed funds. However, if a U.S. tax-exempt entity realizes income with respect to our shares under the CFC or RPII rules, as discussed above, such entity will be generally subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to such income as UBTI. 31Table of ContentsAccordingly, U.S. tax-exempt entities that are potential investors in our shares should consider the possible application of the CFC and RPII rules. You may be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation with respect to distributions on and gains on dispositions of our shares under the passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) rules. We believe that U.S. persons holding our shares should not be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation with respect to distributions on and gains on dispositions of shares under the PFIC rules. We expect that our insurance subsidiaries will be predominantly engaged in, and derive their income from the active conduct of, an insurance business and will not hold reserves in excess of reasonable needs of their business, and therefore qualify for the insurance exception from the PFIC rules. However, the determination of the nature of such business and the reasonableness of such reserves is inherently factual. Furthermore, we cannot assure you, as to what positions the IRS or a court might take in the future regarding the application of the PFIC rules to us. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered to be a PFIC. If we are considered to be a PFIC, U.S. persons holding our shares could be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxation on distributions on and gains on dispositions of shares. Accordingly, each U.S. person who is considering an investment in our shares should consult his or her tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. Application of a published IRS Revenue Ruling with respect to our insurance or reinsurance arrangements can materially adversely affect us.The IRS published Revenue Ruling 2005-40 (the “Ruling”) addressing the requirement of adequate risk distribution among insureds in order for a primary insurance arrangement to constitute insurance for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS successfully contends that our insurance or reinsurance arrangements, including such arrangements with affiliates of our principal shareholders, and with our U.S. subsidiaries, do not provide for adequate risk distribution under the principles set forth in the Ruling, we could be subject to material adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Our non-U.K. companies may be subject to U.K. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Two of our subsidiaries, Allied World Capital (Europe) Limited and Allied World Managing Agency Limited, are incorporated in the United Kingdom and, are therefore, subject to tax in the United Kingdom. None of our other companies are incorporated in the United Kingdom. Accordingly, none of our other companies should be treated as being resident in the United Kingdom for corporation tax purposes unless the central management and control of any such company is exercised in the United Kingdom. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, which is wholly a question of fact. Each of our companies currently intend to manage our affairs so that none of our other companies are resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes. The rules governing the taxation of foreign companies operating in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency were amended by the Finance Act 2003. The current rules apply to the accounting periods of non-U.K. resident companies which start on or after January 1, 2003. Accordingly, a non-U.K. resident company will only be subject to U.K. corporation tax if it carries on a trade in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. In that case, the company is, in broad terms, taxable on the profits and gains attributable to the permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. Broadly a company will have a permanent establishment if it has a fixed place of business in the United Kingdom through which the business of the company is wholly or partly carried on or if an agent acting on behalf of the company has and habitually exercises authority in the United Kingdom to do business on behalf of the company. Each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited (which has established a branch in the United Kingdom), currently intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited, carry on a trade through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. If any of our U.S. subsidiaries were trading in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency and the U.S. subsidiaries were to qualify for benefits under the applicable income tax treaty between the United Kingdom and the United States, only those profits which were attributable to a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom would be subject to U.K. corporation tax. If Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd was trading in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency and it was entitled to the benefits of the tax treaty between Ireland and the United Kingdom, it would only be subject to 32Table of ContentsU.K. taxation on its profits which were attributable to a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. The branch established in the United Kingdom by Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited constitute a permanent establishment of that company and the profits attributable to that permanent establishment is subject to U.K. corporation tax. The United Kingdom has no income tax treaty with Bermuda. There are circumstances in which companies that are neither resident in the United Kingdom nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the United Kingdom and the jurisdiction in which they are resident may be exposed to income tax in the United Kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) on income arising in the United Kingdom (including the profits of a trade carried on there even if that trade is not carried on through a branch agency or permanent establishment), but each of our companies currently operates in such a manner that none of our companies will fall within the charge to income tax in the United Kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) in this respect. If any of our non-U.K. companies were treated as being resident in the United Kingdom for U.K. corporation tax purposes, or if any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) Limited, were to be treated as carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom through a branch agency or of having a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, our results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to Irish tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Companies resident in Ireland are generally subject to Irish corporation tax on their worldwide income and capital gains. None of our companies, other than our Irish companies and Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd, which resides in Ireland, should be treated as being resident in Ireland unless the central management and control of any such company is exercised in Ireland. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, and is wholly a question of fact. Each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, currently intends to operate in such a manner so that the central management and control of each of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, is exercised outside of Ireland. Nevertheless, because central management and control is a question of fact to be determined based on a number of different factors, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that the central management and control of any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd or our Irish companies, is exercised in Ireland. Should this occur, such company will be subject to Irish corporation tax on their worldwide income and capital gains. The trading income of a company not resident in Ireland for Irish tax purposes can also be subject to Irish corporation tax if it carries on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Each of our companies currently intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies carry on a trade through a branch or agency in Ireland. Nevertheless, because neither case law nor Irish legislation definitively defines the activities that constitute trading in Ireland through a branch or agency, the Irish Revenue Commissioners might contend successfully that any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, is trading through a branch or agency in Ireland. Should this occur, such companies will be subject to Irish corporation tax on profits attributable to that branch or agency. If any of our companies, other than Allied World Assurance Holdings (Ireland) Ltd and our Irish companies, were treated as resident in Ireland for Irish corporation tax purposes, or as carrying on a trade in Ireland through a branch or agency, our results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. If corporate tax rates in Ireland increase, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Trading income derived from the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on in Ireland by our Irish companies is generally taxed in Ireland at a rate of 12.5%. Over the past number of years, various E.U. Member States have, from time to time, called for harmonization of corporate tax rates within the E.U. Ireland, along with other member states, has consistently resisted any movement towards standardized corporate tax rates in the E.U. The Government of Ireland has also made clear its commitment to retain the 12.5% rate of corporation tax until at least the year 2025. Should, however, tax laws in Ireland change so as to increase the general corporation tax rate in Ireland, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 33Table of ContentsIf investments held by our Irish companies are determined not to be integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies, additional Irish tax could be imposed and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Based on administrative practice, taxable income derived from investments made by our Irish companies is generally taxed in Ireland at the rate of 12.5% on the grounds that such investments either form part of the permanent capital required by regulatory authorities, or are otherwise integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by those companies. Our Irish companies intend to operate in such a manner so that the level of investments held by such companies does not exceed the amount that is integral to the insurance and reinsurance businesses carried on by our Irish companies. If, however, investment income earned by our Irish companies exceeds these thresholds, or if the administrative practice of the Irish Revenue Commissioners changes, Irish corporation tax could apply to such investment income at a higher rate (currently 25%) instead of the general 12.5% rate, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our investment. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, has given our Bermuda subsidiaries an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to such entities or their operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.34Table of ContentsGLOSSARY OF SELECTED INSURANCE AND OTHER TERMSAdmitted insurerAn insurer that is licensed or authorized to write insurance in a particular state; to be distinguished from an insurer eligible to write excess and surplus lines insurance on risks located within a jurisdiction.Assumed reinsuranceThat portion of a risk that a reinsurer accepts from an insurer in return for a stated premium.Attachment pointThe loss point of which an insurance or reinsurance policy becomes operative and below which any losses are retained by either the insured or other insurers or reinsurers, as the case may be.Acquisition costsComprised of commissions, brokerage fees and insurance taxes. Commissions and brokerage fees are usually calculated as a percentage of premiums and depend on the market and line of business. Acquisition costs are reported after (1) deducting commissions received on ceded reinsurance, (2) deducting the part of acquisition costs relating to unearned premiums and (3) including the amortization of previously deferred acquisition costs.Acquisition cost ratioCalculated by dividing “acquisition costs” by “net premiums earned”.CapacityThe maximum percentage of surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire portfolio of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions.Case reservesLoss reserves, established with respect to specific, individual reported claims.Casualty linesInsurance that is primarily concerned with losses due to injuries to persons and liability imposed on the insured for such injury or for damage to the property of others.Catastrophe exposure or eventA severe loss, typically involving multiple claimants. Common perils include earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made disasters. Catastrophe losses may also arise from acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability.Catastrophe reinsuranceA form of excess-of-loss reinsurance that, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a “catastrophe cover.” These reinsurance contracts are typically designed to cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover other types of insurance losses such as workers’ compensation policies.Cede, cedent, ceding companyWhen an insurer transfers some or all of its risk to a reinsurer, it “cedes” business and is referred to as the “ceding company” or “cedent.”Combined ratioCalculated as the sum of the “loss and loss expense ratio”, the “acquisition cost ratio” and the “general and administrative expense ratio”.Commercial coverageInsurance products that are sold to entities and individuals in their business or professional capacity, and which are intended for other than the insured’s personal or household use.35Table of ContentsCoverholderA Lloyd's approved service company that is authorized to enter into policies or contracts of insurance and reinsurance to be underwritten by the Lloyd's syndicate in accordance with the terms of a binding authority or service company agreement.DeductibleThe amount of exposure an insured retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance policy, where the insured is an individual or business, or a reinsurance contract, where the insured is an insurance company. See “Retention.”Direct insuranceInsurance sold by an insurer that contracts directly with the insured, as distinguished from reinsurance.Directors and officers liabilityInsurance that covers liability for corporate directors and officers for wrongful acts, subject to applicable exclusions, terms and conditions of the policy.Earned premiums or Premiums earnedThat portion of premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term. Earned premiums are recognized as revenues under both statutory accounting practice and U.S. GAAP.Employment practices liability insuranceInsurance that primarily provides liability coverage to organizations and their employees for losses arising from acts of discrimination, harassment and retaliation against current and prospective employees of the organization.Errors and omissions insuranceInsurance that provides liability coverage for claims arising from professional negligence or malpractice, subject to applicable exclusions, terms and conditions of the policy.Excess and surplus linesA risk or a part of a risk for which there is no insurance market available among admitted insurers; or insurance written by non-admitted insurance companies to cover such risks.Excess layerInsurance to cover losses in one or more layers above a certain amount with losses below that amount usually covered by the insured’s primary policy and its self-insured retention.Excess-of-loss reinsuranceReinsurance that indemnifies the insured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified amount or “retention.”ExclusionsProvisions in an insurance or reinsurance policy excluding certain risks or otherwise limiting the scope of coverage.Expense ratioCalculated by adding the “acquisition cost ratio” and the “general and administrative cost ratio”.ExposureThe possibility of loss. A unit of measure of the amount of risk a company assumes.Facultative reinsuranceThe reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is separately negotiated.Fiduciary liability insuranceInsurance that primarily provides liability coverage to fiduciaries of employee benefit and welfare plans for losses arising from the breach of any fiduciary duty owed to plan beneficiaries.FrequencyThe number of claims occurring during a specified period of time.General and administrative expense ratioCalculated by dividing “general and administrative expenses” by “net premiums earned”.36Table of ContentsGeneral casualtyInsurance that is primarily concerned with losses due to injuries to persons and liability imposed on the insured for such injury or for damage to the property of others.Gross premiums writtenTotal premiums for insurance and reinsurance written during a given period.Healthcare liability or Healthcare linesInsurance coverage, often referred to as medical malpractice insurance, which addresses liability risks of doctors, surgeons, nurses, other healthcare professionals and the institutions (hospitals, clinics) in which they practice.Incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) reservesReserves established by us for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to us as well as for changes in the values of claims that have been reported to us but are not yet settled.In-forcePolicies that have not expired or been terminated and for which the insurer remains on risk as of a given date.LimitsThe maximum amount that an insurer or reinsurer will insure or reinsure for a specified risk, a portfolio of risks or on a single insured entity. The term also refers to the maximum amount of benefit payable for a given claim or occurrence.Loss developmentThe difference between the original loss as initially reserved by an insurer or reinsurer and its subsequent evaluation at a later date or at the time of its closure. Loss development occurs because of inflation and time lags between the occurrence of claims and the time they are actually reported to an insurer or reinsurer. To account for these increases, a “loss development factor” or multiplier is usually applied to a claim or group of claims in an effort to more accurately project the ultimate amount that will be paid.Losses incurredThe total losses and loss adjustment expenses paid, plus the change in loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, including IBNR, sustained by an insurance or reinsurance company under its insurance policies or other insurance or reinsurance contracts.Losses and loss expense ratioCalculated by dividing net “losses and loss expenses” by “net premiums earned”.Losses and loss expenses“Losses” are an occurrence that is the basis for submission or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or excluded from coverage, depending on the terms of the insurance policy or other insurance or reinsurance contracts. “Loss expenses” are the expenses incurred by an insurance or reinsurance company in settling a loss.Loss reservesLiabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay. Reserves are established for losses and for loss expenses, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this Form 10-K, “loss reserves” is meant to include reserves for both losses and for loss expenses.Loss yearThe year to which a claim is attributed based upon the terms in the underlying policy or contract. All years referred to are years ending December 31.Net premiums earnedThe portion of net premiums written during or prior to a given period that was recognized as income during such period.Net premiums writtenGross premiums written, less premiums ceded to reinsurers.37Table of ContentsPaid lossesClaim amounts paid to insureds or ceding companies.Per occurrence limitationsThe maximum amount recoverable under an insurance or reinsurance policy as a result of any one event, regardless of the number of claims.Primary insuranceInsurance that absorbs the losses immediately above the insured’s retention layer. A primary insurer will pay up to a certain dollar amount of losses over the insured’s retention, at which point a higher layer excess insurer will be liable for additional losses. The coverage terms of a primary insurance layer typically assume an element of regular loss frequency.ProducerA licensed professional, often referred to as an insurance agent, insurance broker or intermediary, who acts as intermediary between the insurance carrier and the insured or reinsured (as the case may be).Product liabilityInsurance that provides coverage to manufacturer and/or distributors of tangible goods against liability for personal injury caused if such products are unsafe or defective.Professional liabilityInsurance that provides liability coverage to directors and officers, attorneys, doctors, accountants and other professionals who offer services to the general public and claim expertise in a particular area greater than the ordinary layperson for their negligence or malfeasance.Property catastrophe coverageIn reinsurance, coverage that protects the ceding company against accumulated losses in excess of a stipulated sum that arise from a catastrophic event such as an earthquake, fire or windstorm. “Catastrophe loss” generally refers to the total loss of an insurer arising out of a single catastrophic event.Quota share reinsuranceA proportional reinsurance treaty in which the ceding company cedes an agreed-on percentage of every risk it insures that falls within a class or classes of business subject to the treaty.ReinsuranceThe practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that reinsurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance that it has issued.ReservesLiabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay. Reserves are established for losses and for loss expenses, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this report, “reserves” are meant to include reserves for both losses and for loss expenses.RetentionThe amount of exposure an insured retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance policy, where the insured is an individual or business, or a reinsurance contract, where the insured is an insurance company. See “Deductible.”Retrocessional coverageA transaction whereby a reinsurer cedes to another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has assumed. Retrocessional reinsurance does not legally discharge the ceding reinsurer from its liability with respect to its obligations to the reinsured. Reinsurance companies cede risks to retrocessionaires for reasons similar to those that cause insurers to purchase reinsurance: to reduce net liability on individual risks, to protect against catastrophic losses, to stabilize financial ratios and to obtain additional underwriting capacity.Run-offLiability of an insurance or reinsurance company for existing claims that it expects to pay in the future and for which a loss reserve has been established.38Table of ContentsSelf-insuredA term which describes a risk, or part of a risk, retained by the insured in lieu of transferring the risk to an insurer. A policy deductible or retention feature allows a policyholder to self-insure a portion of an exposure and thereby reduce its risk-transfer costs.Specialty linesA term used in the insurance and reinsurance industry to describe types of insurance or classes of business that require specialized expertise to underwrite. Insurance and reinsurance for these classes of business is not widely available and is typically purchased from the specialty lines divisions of larger insurance companies or from small specialty lines insurers.Subpart F incomeInsurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) and foreign personal holding company income (including interest, dividends and other passive investment income).Surplus (or statutory surplus)As determined under statutory accounting principles, the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted from all of the “admitted” assets (i.e., those permitted by regulation to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet). Surplus is also referred to as “statutory surplus” or “surplus as regards policyholders” for statutory accounting purposes.Surplus linesA risk or a part of a risk for which there is no insurance market available among admitted insurers or insurance written by non-admitted insurance companies to cover such risks.TreatiesReinsurance contracts under which the ceding company agrees to cede and the reinsurer agrees to assume risks of a particular class or classes of business.Treaty yearThe year in which the contract incepts. Exposure from contracts incepting during the current treaty year will potentially affect both the current loss year as well future loss years.Ultimate lossTotal of all expected settlement amounts, whether paid or reserved together with any associated loss adjustment expenses, and is the estimated total amount of loss at the measurement date. For purposes of this Form 10-K, “ultimate loss” is the sum of paid losses, case reserves and IBNR.UnderwriterAn employee of an insurance or reinsurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in order to charge an appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business.Underwriting resultsThe pre-tax profit or loss experienced by an insurance company that is calculated by deducting net losses and loss expenses, net acquisition costs and general and administration expenses from net premiums earned. This profit or loss calculation includes reinsurance assumed and ceded but excludes investment income.Unearned premiumThe portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term or underlying risk.Working layerPrimary insurance that absorbs the losses immediately above the insured’s retention layer. A working layer insurer will pay up to a certain dollar amount of losses over the insured’s retention, at which point a higher layer excess insurer will be liable for additional losses. The coverage terms of a working layer typically assume an element of loss frequency.39Table of Contents